WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in females over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , CHCs should not be used by females who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Females over 35 years old who smoke should not use ANNOVERA .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) use .
( 4 ) Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANNOVERA is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
ANNOVERA is a progestin / estrogen CHC indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Not adequately evaluated in females with a body mass index of > 29 kg / m2 .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use ANNOVERA has not been adequately studied in females with a BMI > 29 kg / m2 .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One ANNOVERA is inserted in the vagina .
The vaginal system must remain in place continuously for 3 weeks ( 21 days ) followed by a 1 - week ( 7 - day ) vaginal system - free interval .
One vaginal system provides contraception for thirteen 28 - day cycles ( 1 year ) .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Use ANNOVERA Instruct patients that ANNOVERA should be used as directed [ see How to Start ANNOVERA ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
One ANNOVERA should be placed in the vagina .
For maximum contraceptive effectiveness , ANNOVERA is to remain in the vagina continuously for 21 days ( 3 complete weeks ) .
It is removed for a 1 - week dose - free interval , and during this time a withdrawal bleed usually occurs .
The removed vaginal system should be cleaned with mild soap and warm water , patted dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel , and placed in its case during the 1 - week dose - free interval .
At the end of the dose - free interval , the vaginal system should be cleaned prior to being placed back in the vagina for another 21 continuous days ( 3 complete weeks ) .
This pattern of ANNOVERA use made up of 3 - weeks in and 1 - week out is a cycle of use ; one ANNOVERA vaginal system will provide contraception for 13 cycles .
With clean hands , the user can choose an insertion position that is comfortable , such as lying down , squatting , or standing .
The sides of the vaginal system are pressed together for insertion into the vagina .
When properly inserted , the vaginal system should be entirely in the vagina and behind the pelvic bone .
The day and time of insertion should be noted so that the vaginal system can be removed 3 weeks later on the same day and at about the same time .
ANNOVERA can be removed by hooking an index finger into the vaginal system inside the vagina and gently pulling the vaginal system .
For patient instructions regarding cleaning the vaginal system , see FDA - approved Patient Information .
2 . 2 How to Start ANNOVERA IMPORTANT : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to the first use of ANNOVERA .
No Hormonal Contraceptive Use in the Preceding Cycle and after Copper IUD Removal : The woman should insert ANNOVERA between days 2 and 5 of her regular menstrual bleeding ; no back - up contraception is needed .
If menstrual cycles are irregular or if the start is more than 5 days from the last menstrual bleeding , the woman should use an additional barrier method during coitus , such as a male condom or spermicide , for the first 7 days of ANNOVERA use .
Switching from a CHC : A woman who has been using her CHC method consistently and correctly , and who you are reasonably certain is not already pregnant , may switch from her previous CHC to ANNOVERA on any day of the CHC cycle ( Day 1 - 28 ) , without the need for back - up contraception , but no more than 7 hormone - free days should occur before starting ANNOVERA .
Switching from a Progestin - Only Method [ Progestin - only pills ( POP ) , Progestin Injection , Progestin Implant , Progestin Intrauterine System ( IUS ) ] : If a woman has no contraindications to the use of ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) , she may elect to switch from a progestin - only method to ANNOVERA .
If switching from progestin - only pills , she should begin ANNOVERA at the time she would have taken her next POP pill .
If switching from an injection , she should begin ANNOVERA at the time of her next scheduled injection .
If switching from an implant or an IUS , she should begin ANNOVERA at the time of implant or IUS removal .
In all of these cases , the woman should use an additional barrier method during coitus , such as a male condom or spermicide , for the first 7 days of ANNOVERA use .
Use after Abortion or Miscarriage : If a woman has no contraindications to the use of EE , ANNOVERA may be initiated for contraception within the first 5 days following a complete first trimester abortion or miscarriage without additional back - up contraception .
If more than 5 days have elapsed from the first trimester abortion or miscarriage , then follow the instructions for “ No Hormonal Contraceptive Use in the Preceding Cycle ” and a barrier method should be used from the time of the first trimester abortion or miscarriage to the initiation of ANNOVERA .
ANNOVERA should not be started earlier than 4 weeks after a second trimester abortion or miscarriage due to the increased risk of thromboembolism [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Following Childbirth : ANNOVERA should not be started sooner than 4 weeks postpartum and only in females who choose not to breastfeed .
Prior to 4 weeks postpartum there is an increased risk of thromboembolism [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The initiation of ANNOVERA 4 weeks or more postpartum should be accompanied by an additional method of contraception during coitus , such as male condoms or spermicide , for the first 7 days if the woman has not yet had a period .
Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to initiating ANNOVERA .
Females who are breastfeeding should not use ANNOVERA until after weaning .
2 . 3 Deviations from the Recommended Regimen Contraceptive efficacy of ANNOVERA may be reduced if a woman deviates from the recommended use .
ANNOVERA should remain in the vagina for a continuous period of 21 days ( 3 weeks ) ; then ANNOVERA should be taken out of the vagina for 7 days .
In a 28 - day cycle , a deviation that involves ANNOVERA being out of the vagina for less than 7 days will not increase pregnancy risk .
In a 28 - day cycle , a deviation that involves ANNOVERA being out of the vagina for more than 7 days will increase pregnancy risk and back - up contraception is recommended in these instances .
Deviations from the recommended regimen may result in a new vaginal system change day [ See FDA - approved Patient Information ] .
Inadvertent Removal or Expulsion ANNOVERA can be accidently expelled .
Accidental expulsion could occur while removing a tampon , during coitus , or with straining during a bowel movement .
If the vaginal system is accidentally expelled once during the 21 days of intravaginal use and is replaced within 2 hours , contraceptive efficacy should not be reduced and no back - up contraception is needed .
If the vaginal system is accidently expelled , wash it with mild soap and warm water , rinse and pat dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel , and replace it as soon as possible .
During the 21 days of continuous use , if ANNOVERA is out of the vagina for more than 2 continuous hours or more than 2 cumulative hours ( multiple inadvertent removals or expulsions adding up to 2 hours ) , then back - up contraception , such as male condoms or spermicide , should be used until the vaginal system has been in the vagina for 7 consecutive days .
The use of combined hormonal contraceptives ( those containing an estrogen ) for emergency contraception during use of ANNOVERA is not recommended .
Prolonged Vaginal System Free Interval If the vaginal system free interval is prolonged , consider the possibility of pregnancy and have the woman use back - up contraception , such as male condoms or spermicide , during coitus until the vaginal system has been in the vagina for 7 consecutive days .
The use of combined hormonal contraceptives ( those containing an estrogen ) for emergency contraception during use of ANNOVERA is not recommended .
Prolonged Use of ANNOVERA If ANNOVERA is left in the vagina for more than 21 days , it should be removed for 7 days and then reinserted for 21 days to resume a 21 / 7 schedule .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vaginal system : Each ANNOVERA releases an approximate average 0 . 15 mg / day of segesterone acetate ( SA ) and 0 . 013 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) when placed in the vagina over a period of 21 days of each cycle for up to 13 cycles ( total of 273 days ) .
Each cycle of use is 28 days with 21 days in and 7 days out .
ANNOVERA ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) is a toroidal - shaped ( ring ) , nonbiodegradable , flexible , opaque white , contraceptive vaginal system containing 103 mg of SA and 17 . 4 mg EE .
ANNOVERA is 56 mm in overall diameter and 8 . 4 mm in cross - sectional diameter .
It contains 2 channels of approximately 3 . 0 mm diameter and 27 mm length into which steroid - containing cores are inserted .
The cores are 3 mm in diameter with one releasing SA alone and the other releasing both SA and EE .
Each ANNOVERA is designed to be used for up to 13 cycles ( 1 year ) .
ANNOVERA is not made with natural rubber latex .
ANNOVERA is a silicone elastomer vaginal system containing 103 mg segesterone acetate ( SA ) and 17 . 4 mg ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) , which releases on average 0 . 15 mg / day of segesterone acetate and 0 . 013 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include females who are known to : - Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
- Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
- Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35 , diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease , or other end - organ damage , or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
- Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms , migraine headaches with aura , or are over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• Liver tumors , acute hepatitis , or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to any of the components of ANNOVERA .
Hypersensitivity reactions reported include : throat constriction , facial edema , urticaria , hives , and wheezing [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for alanine transaminase ( ALT ) elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors , acute hepatitis , or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of ANNOVERA ( 4 ) • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop ANNOVERA if a thrombotic or thromboembolic event occurs .
Stop ANNOVERA at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start ANNOVERA no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in females who are not breastfeeding .
Consider cardiovascular risk factors before initiating in all females , particularly those over 35 years .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) • Liver Disease : Discontinue if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment : Stop ANNOVERA prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir .
ANNOVERA can be restarted 2 weeks following completion of this regimen .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypertension : Do not prescribe ANNOVERA for females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease .
If used in females with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop use if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor glucose in pre - diabetic and diabetic females taking ANNOVERA .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for females with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 7 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue ANNOVERA if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : May cause irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
Evaluate for other causes if irregular bleeding or amenorrhea persists .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions Females are at increased risk for a venous thrombotic event ( VTE ) when using ANNOVERA .
Limited data are available in females with a BMI > 29 . 0 kg / m2 because this subpopulation was excluded from the clinical trials after VTEs were reported .
• Stop ANNOVERA if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event occurs .
• Stop ANNOVERA if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• Discontinue ANNOVERA during prolonged immobilization .
If feasible , stop ANNOVERA at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE .
• Start ANNOVERA no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery in females who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• Before starting ANNOVERA , evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy .
ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic / thromboembolic diseases [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Arterial Events CHCs increase the risk of cardiovascular events and cerebrovascular events , such as stroke and myocardial infarction .
The risk is greater among older females ( > 35 years of age ) , smokers , and females with hypertension , dyslipidemia , diabetes , or obesity .
ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females over 35 years of age who smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from CHC use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in females over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
Venous Events The use of CHCs increases the risk of VTE , such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism .
Risk factors for VTEs include smoking , obesity , and family history of VTE , in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of CHCs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of CHCs is well established , the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy , and especially during the postpartum period ( see Figure 1 ) .
The rate of VTE in females using CHCs has been estimated to be 3 – 12 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of CHC use and when restarting hormonal contraception following a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of VTE due to CHCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for females who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs , for females who use CHCs , for pregnant females , and for females in the postpartum period .
To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective : If 10 , 000 females who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs are followed for 1 year , between 1 and 5 of these women will develop a VTE .
Figure 1 : Likelihood of Developing a VTE [ MULTIMEDIA ] * CHC = combination hormonal contraception ** Pregnancy data based on actual duration of pregnancy in the reference studies .
Based on a model assumption that pregnancy duration is 9 months , the rate is 7 to 27 per 10 , 000 WY .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females with acute hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Discontinue ANNOVERA if jaundice develops .
Acute liver test abnormalities may necessitate the discontinuation of ANNOVERA use until the liver tests return to normal and ANNOVERA causation has been excluded .
Liver Tumors ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with CHC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 CHC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) CHC users .
The attributable risk of liver cancers in CHC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with and without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in females using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as ANNOVERA .
Discontinue ANNOVERA prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ANNOVERA can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 Hypertension ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For all females , including those with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop ANNOVERA if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in females using CHCs , and this increase is more likely in older females and with extended duration of use .
The effect of CHCs on blood pressure may vary according to the progestin in the CHC .
5 . 5 Age - Related Considerations The risk for cardiovascular disease and prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease increase with age .
Certain conditions , such as smoking and migraine headache without aura , that do not contraindicate CHC use in younger females , are contraindications to use in women over 35 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE , particularly before initiating ANNOVERA for women over 35 years , such as : • Hypertension • Diabetes • Dyslipidemia • Obesity 5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among CHC users .
Use of CHCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of CHC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent CHC use .
Females with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for CHC - related cholestasis .
5 . 7 Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia ANNOVERA is contraindicated in diabetic females over age 35 , or females who have diabetes with hypertension , nephropathy , retinopathy , neuropathy , other vascular disease , or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ANNOVERA may decrease glucose tolerance .
Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic females who are taking ANNOVERA .
Dyslipidemia Consider alternative contraception for females with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
ANNOVERA may cause adverse lipid changes .
Females with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using ANNOVERA .
5 . 8 Headache ANNOVERA is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura , and in females over age 35 years who have migraine headaches with or without aura [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If a woman taking ANNOVERA develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue ANNOVERA if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of ANNOVERA in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during CHC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Bleeding and / or spotting that occurs at any time while the vaginal system is inserted is considered “ unscheduled ” bleeding / spotting .
Bleeding / spotting that occurs during the dose - free week when the vaginal system is out is considered “ scheduled ” bleeding .
Unscheduled and Scheduled Bleeding and Spotting Females using ANNOVERA may experience unscheduled ( breakthrough ) bleeding and spotting , especially during the first month of use .
If unscheduled bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles on ANNOVERA , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different CHC .
Based on subject diaries from the two clinical efficacy trials of ANNOVERA [ see Clinical Trial Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] , 5 – 10 % of females experienced unscheduled bleeding per 28 - day cycle .
The average number of days with unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , in Treatment Cycles 1 to 13 for those females who experienced unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , was 1 day or less per cycle .
A total of 41 subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) discontinued use due to menstrual disorders including metrorrhagia , menorrhagia , and abnormal withdrawal bleeding .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Females who are not pregnant and use ANNOVERA may experience amenorrhea .
Based on subject diary data from two clinical trials for up to 13 cycles , amenorrhea occurred in 3 – 5 % of females per cycle using ANNOVERA and in 0 . 9 % of females in all 13 cycles .
If scheduled bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( removed vaginal system for > 2 hours during the first 21 days or does not replace after 7 days of vaginal system - free period ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and perform a pregnancy test .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule and misses 2 consecutive periods , perform a pregnancy test to rule out pregnancy .
Some females may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping ANNOVERA , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe females with a history of depression and discontinue ANNOVERA if depression recurs to a serious degree .
Data on the association of CHCs with onset of depression or exacerbation of existing depression are limited .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Annovera is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that CHCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of ANNOVERA may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Hereditary Angioedema In females with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 14 Chloasma Chloasma may occur with ANNOVERA use , especially in females with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Advise females who tend to develop chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using ANNOVERA .
5 . 15 Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) Cases of TSS have been reported by vaginal ring users .
TSS has been associated with tampons and certain barrier contraceptives , and in some TSS cases ring users were also using tampons .
Causal relationship between the use of a vaginal ring and TSS has not been established .
No cases of TSS occurred in clinical trials with ANNOVERA .
If a patient exhibits signs or symptoms of TSS , consider the possibility of this diagnosis , remove ANNOVERA , and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment .
5 . 16 Vaginal Use Some females are aware of the vaginal system on occasion during the 21 days of use or during coitus , and partners may feel the vaginal system during coitus .
There is no information on the concomitant use of ANNOVERA with diaphragms , cervical caps , and female condoms .
ANNOVERA may not be suitable for females with conditions that make the vagina more susceptible to vaginal irritation or ulceration .
Vaginal and cervical erosion and / or ulceration has been reported in females using other contraceptive vaginal devices .
In some cases , the ring adhered to vaginal tissue , which necessitated removal by a healthcare provider .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % ) are headache / migraine , nausea / vomiting , vulvovaginal mycotic infection / candidiasis , abdominal pain lower / upper , dysmenorrhea , vaginal discharge , urinary tract infection , breast tenderness / pain / discomfort , bleeding irregularities including metrorrhagia , diarrhea , genital pruritus .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TherapeuticsMD , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 228 - 0150 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical trials that evaluated the safety of ANNOVERA were obtained from three 13 - cycle trials .
One trial was conducted entirely in the U . S . ( 15 sites ) , and the other two were global studies that included 5 U . S . sites and 7 international sites ( Australia , Brazil , Chile , Dominican Republic , Finland , Hungary , Sweden ) .
All three trials were open label and enrolled healthy females , desiring contraception , 18 to 40 years of age .
At about 50 % enrollment , females with BMI > 29 kg / m2 were excluded due to the occurrence of two VTEs in this subgroup .
In total , 2 , 308 females contributed 21 , 590 cycles of exposure for safety evaluation and 999 completed 13 cycles ; there were 209 subjects with BMI > 29 kg / m2 who contributed 1 , 254 cycles of exposure with 36 subjects completing 13 cycles .
The demographic profile for subjects was : mean age 26 . 7 years , mean BMI 24 . 1 ( 16 . 0 - 41 . 5 ) kg / m2 ; 67 % were from the U . S .
The racial distribution was 71 % Caucasian , 14 % African American , 4 % Asian , and 11 % Other ; 30 % of the population was Hispanic .
Most Common Adverse Reactions Table 1 summarizes the most common adverse reactions reported by females using ANNOVERA .
This table shows adverse reactions reported in at least 5 % of subjects .
In addition , 25 % of subjects reported at least 1 complete expulsion during their use of ANNOVERA .
Table 1 : Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by ≥ 5 % of ANNOVERA - treated Subjects Adverse Reactions % ( N = 2 , 308 ) Headache , including migraine 38 . 6 Nausea / vomiting 25 . 0 Vulvovaginal mycotic infection / vaginal candidiasis 14 . 5 Abdominal pain / lower / upper 13 . 3 Dysmenorrhea 12 . 5 Vaginal discharge 11 . 8 UTI / cystitis / pyelonephritis / genitourinary tract infection 10 . 0 Breast pain / tenderness / discomfort 9 . 5 Metrorrhagia / menstrual disorder 7 . 5 Diarrhea 7 . 2 Genital pruritus 5 . 5 Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Among subjects using ANNOVERA for contraception , 12 % discontinued from the clinical trials due to an adverse reaction .
Table 2 summarizes the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation .
In addition , 1 . 4 % of subjects discontinued ANNOVERA use due to vaginal system expulsions .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation by ≥ 1 % of ANNOVERA – treated Subjects Adverse Reactions % ( N = 2 , 308 ) Metrorrhagia / menorrhagia 1 . 7 Headache , including migraine 1 . 3 Vaginal discharge / vulvovaginal mycotic infections 1 . 3 Nausea / vomiting 1 . 2 Serious Adverse Reactions Serious adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 subjects were : VTEs ( deep venous thrombosis , cerebral vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism ) ; psychiatric events ; drug hypersensitivity reactions ; and spontaneous abortions .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 - 1 . 12 ( Figure 2 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 2 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 - 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 2 : Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females who never used COCs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with CHCs are available .
There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect ANNOVERA .
However , based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs , clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested .
Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with ANNOVERA or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of ANNOVERA or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with ANNOVERA .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Hormonal Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Systemic Exposure of CHCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of ANNOVERA : Table 3 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with CHCs .
Table 3 : Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Decrease Systemic Exposure of CHCs a Induction potency of St . John ' s wort may vary widely based on preparation .
Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect • Concomitant use of CHCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the systemic concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin component of CHCs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of CHCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of CHCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding .
Prevention or management • Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with CHCs .
• Continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability .
Examples Aprepitant , barbiturates , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin , rifampin , rifabutin , rufinamide , topiramate , products containing St . John ' s worta , and certain protease inhibitors ( see separate section on protease inhibitors below ) .
Substances Increasing the Systemic Exposure of CHCs and Potentially Increasing Exposure to Estrogen and / or Progestin in ANNOVERA : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain CHCs containing EE increase systemic exposure of EE by approximately 20 – 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of ANNOVERA .
Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Protease Inhibitors and Non - nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors : Significant decreases in systemic exposure of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when CHCs are co - administered with some HIV protease inhibitors ( eg , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ) , some HCV protease inhibitors ( eg , boceprevir and telaprevir ) , and some non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( eg , nevirapine ) .
In contrast , significant increases in systemic exposure of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when CHCs are co - administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors ( eg , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ) and with other non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( eg , etravirine ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Hormonal Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 4 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co - administered with CHCs .
Table 4 : Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co - Administered with CHCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of CHCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control .
Prevention or management Dose adjustment for lamotrigine may be necessary .
Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine .
Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of CHCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid - binding and cortisol - binding globulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of CHCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol - containing CHCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs ( eg , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) .
Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased or decreased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug .
7 . 3 Use of Vaginal Products with ANNOVERA In a drug - drug interaction study with ANNOVERA and the concurrent use of three different formulations of vaginal miconazole , the use of water - based vaginal miconazole cream resulted in no change in exposure to EE or SA from the vaginal system .
However , the use of either the 1 - day or the 3 - day oil - based miconazole suppository was associated with an overall increase in exposure up to 67 % for EE and 32 % for SA .
Considering the potential long - term effect on vaginal system performance , concurrent use of oil - based vaginal suppositories should not occur with ANNOVERA use .
If there is a need to treat a vaginal condition , water - based vaginal cream or oral therapy may be used concurrently with the vaginal system [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lubricants : Water - based vaginal lubricants have no effect on ANNOVERA ; however , oil - based ( including silicone - based ) vaginal lubricants will alter the vaginal system and / or exposure to EE and SA and should not be used .
ANNOVERA use is compatible with male condoms made with natural rubber latex , polyisoprene , and polyurethane .
The effect of tampon use on the systemic exposure of SA and EE from ANNOVERA has not been studied .
7 . 4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer ANNOVERA with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Discontinue if pregnancy occurs .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Not recommended for nursing mothers ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to CHCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Discontinue ANNOVERA if pregnancy occurs , because there is no reason to use CHCs during pregnancy .
Data Human Data No studies have been conducted of the use of ANNOVERA in pregnant females .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and / or metabolites are present in human milk .
CHCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well established .
Advise the nursing female to use another method of contraception until she discontinues breastfeeding [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Data Human Data No studies have been conducted of the use of ANNOVERA in breastfeeding females .
Two studies have been conducted in breastfeeding females of segesterone acetate implants delivering lower levels of segesterone acetate than ANNOVERA .
Maternal serum levels of up to 141 pg / mL were associated with infant exposure of up to 7 pg / mL .
No safety signals in feeding , growth , and development were observed in the infants between the segesterone acetate implant group and the control group .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of ANNOVERA have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of ANNOVERA before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use ANNOVERA has not been studied in females who have reached menopause and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment on the disposition of ANNOVERA .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use until markers of liver function return to normal and CHC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No studies were conducted in subjects with renal impairment ; ANNOVERA is not recommended in patients with renal impairment .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index ( BMI ) / Body Weight The safety and efficacy of ANNOVERA in females with a BMI > 29 kg / m2 have not been adequately evaluated because this subpopulation was excluded from the clinical trials after 2 VTEs occurred in females with a BMI > 29 kg / m2 [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Higher body weight is associated with lower systemic exposure of SA and EE [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of CHCs .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
In case of suspected overdose , all ANNOVERA vaginal systems should be removed and symptomatic treatment given .
11 DESCRIPTION ANNOVERA ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) is a toroidal - shaped ( ring ) , nonbiodegradable , flexible , opaque white vaginal system containing two active components , a progestin , segesterone acetate , and an estrogen , ethinyl estradiol .
When placed in the vagina , each ANNOVERA releases an approximate average 0 . 15 mg / day of segesterone acetate and 0 . 013 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol over the 21 days in - use period of each cycle for up to 13 cycles ( total of 273 days ) .
Each cycle is 28 days , with 21 days in and 7 days out .
The inactive ingredients are dibutyltin dilaurate , silicone elastomers , silicone medical adhesive , and titanium dioxide .
The elastomers are all methyl siloxane - based polymers .
The vaginal system body has an overall diameter of 56 mm and a cross - sectional diameter of 8 . 4 mm .
It contains two channels of approximately 3 . 0 mm diameter and 27 mm length into which steroid - containing cores are inserted .
Each ANNOVERA contains 103 mg of SA distributed throughout both cores and 17 . 4 mg of EE distributed throughout only one core .
The core containing 40 % SA and 12 % EE of its mass is 3 mm in diameter and 18 mm in length .
The core containing 50 % SA of its mass is 3 mm in diameter and 11 mm in length .
Contact between the cores and the vaginal system body is fixed by coating the channels with silicone medical adhesive before introducing the cores .
After insertion of the cores , the channels are sealed with the silicone medical adhesive .
The structural formulas , and properties for the active components are shown below : STRUCTURAL FORMULAS : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Segesterone Acetate ( SA ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol ( EE ) PROPERTIES : Established Name : Segesterone Acetate Chemical Name : 16 - methylene - 17α - acetoxy - 19 - nor - pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione Molecular Formula : C23H30O4 Molecular Weight : 370 . 5 Physical Form : White , or yellowish white powder Solubility : Slightly soluble in n - hexane , soluble in ethyl acetate and methanol , freely soluble in acetone ( USP classification ) Melting Point : 173ºC – 177ºC Established Name : Ethinyl Estradiol Chemical Name : 19 - Nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol Molecular Formula : C20H24O2 Molecular Weight : 296 . 4 Physical Form : White to slightly yellowish - white crystalline powder Solubility : Practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , it dissolves in alkaline solution Melting Point : 181ºC – 185ºC The steroids diffuse out of the vaginal system with release rates that vary over time .
Based on in vitro data , the daily release rates of SA and EE are higher during each initial 24 – 48 hours of use achieving a somewhat lower steady - state with continued use over the subsequent days in each cycle .
The vaginal system is designed to be used for 13 cycles ( 1 year ) on a 21 / 7 days in / out schedule .
The total in - use time with the 21 / 7 days in / out schedule over 13 cycles is 273 days .
Based on the residual amount of drug in vaginal systems used in clinical trials over 13 cycles , a total of 41 . 3 mg of SA and 3 . 4 mg of EE are released over this period .
This translates to an approximate average daily dose of 0 . 15 mg of segesterone acetate and 0 . 013 mg of ethinyl estradiol with higher release rate expected at the beginning of dosing and a lower release rate toward the end .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action CHCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of SA on the QTc interval was evaluated in a Phase 1 randomized , placebo and positive controlled , double - blind , single - dose , three - period , crossover thorough QTc study in 44 healthy adult female subjects .
At the single intravenous bolus dose which produces 4 . 5 - fold the therapeutic serum concentrations of SA achieved with ANNOVERA , SA did not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of ANNOVERA were determined in 39 women who used ANNOVERA for up to 13 cycles .
Following vaginal administration , SA and EE were absorbed into systemic circulation with median tmax of about 2 hours in Cycle 1 , Cycle 3 , and Cycle 13 .
Concentrations of both components declined after tmax and became more constant after 96 hours post - dose .
Over subsequent cycles of use , the peak serum concentrations of SA and EE declined .
Serum concentration - time profiles of SA and EE for Cycles 1 , 3 , and 13 of ANNOVERA use are provided in Figure 2 and Figure 3 with PK parameters summarized in Table 5 and Table 6 .
Figure 2 : Mean SA and EE Serum Concentrations Delivered by ANNOVERA Over 21 Days of Dosing for Cycles 1 , 3 , and 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Mean SA and EE Serum Concentrations Delivered by ANNOVERA Over the First 48 Hours of Dosing for Cycles 1 , 3 , and 13 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 5 : Mean ( SD ) PK Parameters for SA following ANNOVERA Administration Cycle AUC0 - 21 day ( ng * hr / mL ) AUC0 - 1 day ( ng * hr / mL ) Cmax ( pg / mL ) Cavg ( pg / mL ) 1 96 . 2 ( 16 . 9 ) 15 ( 3 . 2 ) 1 , 147 ( 315 ) 191 ( 34 ) 3 65 . 9 ( 14 . 8 ) 5 ( 1 . 6 ) 363 ( 133 ) 131 ( 29 ) 13 47 . 2 ( 10 . 1 ) 3 . 9 ( 1 . 4 ) 294 ( 116 ) 94 ( 20 ) Table 6 : Mean ( SD ) PK Parameters for EE following ANNOVERA Administration Cycle AUC0 - 21 day ( ng * hr / mL ) AUC0 - 1 day ( ng * hr / mL ) Cmax ( pg / mL ) Cavg ( pg / mL ) 1 22 . 2 ( 9 . 8 ) 2 . 1 ( 0 . 7 ) 129 ( 39 ) 44 ( 19 ) 3 14 . 7 ( 4 . 7 ) 0 . 9 ( 0 . 4 ) 60 ( 32 ) 29 ( 9 ) 13 9 . 6 ( 4 . 1 ) 0 . 7 ( 0 . 3 ) 39 ( 16 ) 19 ( 8 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution The volume of distribution of SA is 19 . 6 L / kg .
SA is approximately 95 % bound to human serum proteins and has negligible binding affinity for sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) .
EE is highly protein bound but not specifically bound to serum albumin ( 98 . 5 % ) and induces an increase in the serum concentrations of SHBG .
Metabolism In vitro data show that both SA and EE are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 isoenzyme .
In human serum , two oxidative metabolites ( 5α - dihydro - and 17α - hydroxy - 5α - dihydro metabolites ) constitute 50 % of exposure relative to SA .
Both metabolites are not considered as active metabolites with EC50 to progesterone receptor 10 - fold higher than that of SA .
EE is primarily metabolized by aromatic hydroxylation , but a wide variety of hydroxylated and methylated metabolites are formed .
These are present as free metabolites and as sulfate and glucuronide conjugates .
The hydroxylated EE metabolites have weak estrogenic activity .
Excretion The mean ( SD ) half - life of SA is 4 . 5 ( 3 . 4 ) hours .
EE is known to be excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The mean ( SD ) half - life of EE is 15 . 1 ( 7 . 5 ) hours .
Specific Populations Body Mass Index ( BMI ) Higher body weight associates with lower systemic exposure of SA and EE .
In a PK study conducted in 18 females with BMI < 25 ( 16 . 89 – 24 . 34 ) kg / m2 and 21 females with BMI > 25 ( 25 . 15 – 37 . 46 ) kg / m2 , up to 16 % and 33 % decreases in the systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 21 day ) of SA and EE , respectively , were observed between the two BMI groups .
Interaction with Vaginal Medications A clinical drug - drug interaction ( DDI ) study was conducted to evaluate the effect of vaginal antimycotic medication ( miconazole nitrate ) on the PK of SA and EE in 29 females using ANNOVERA .
The results showed that a single - dose vaginal administration of 1 , 200 mg miconazole suppository on Day 8 of ANNOVERA use increased the systemic exposure of EE ( AUCDay8 - 21 ) by approximately 67 % .
A similar trend was observed with SA with AUCDay8 - 9 , AUCDay8 - 10 , and AUCDay8 - 21 increasing by approximately 30 % , 32 % , and 19 % , respectively .
When 200 mg miconazole vaginal suppositories were administered on Day 8 , Day 9 , and Day 10 of ANNOVERA use , EE AUCDay8 - 11 and AUCDay8 - 21 were increased by 9 % and 42 % , respectively .
SA AUCDay8 - 11 and AUCDay8 - 21 were increased by 28 % and 27 % , respectively .
Water - based vaginal miconazole cream had no effect on ANNOVERA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
The in vitro studies suggest that SA is unlikely to inhibit or induce CYP enzymes at the therapeutic dose .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in rats with subdermal implants releasing 40 , 100 , and 200 mcg segesterone acetate per day ( approximately 17 – 86 times the daily dose of segesterone acetate in females using ANNOVERA , based on body surface area ) , no drug - related increase in tumor incidence was observed .
In a 2 - year intravaginal carcinogenicity study in mice , segesterone acetate gel produced an increased incidence of adenocarcinoma and lobular hyperplasia in the breast at a dose of 30 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 times the systemic exposure of segesterone acetate per day in females using ANNOVERA , based on AUC .
A dose of 10 mg / kg / day in the mouse , approximately 3 times the systemic exposure of segesterone acetate per day based on AUC , did not result in carcinogenic findings .
Long - term continuous administration of natural and synthetic estrogens in certain animal species increases the frequency of carcinomas of the breast , uterus , cervix , vagina , testis , and liver .
Mutagenesis Segesterone acetate was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic in the Ames / Salmonella reverse mutation assay , the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells , or in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility A return to fertility study was conducted with segesterone acetate in rats , using subdermal implants releasing a dose approximately 25 times the anticipated daily vaginal human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
Three months of treatment with segesterone acetate suppressed fertility , but 7 weeks after cessation of treatment , there were no adverse effects on ovulation or resulting litter parameters .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of ANNOVERA was evaluated in two 1 - year multicenter trials enrolling 2 , 265 females , age 18 – 40 years , who were healthy and sexually active with regular menstrual cycles .
The trials were conducted in the U . S . , Dominican Republic , Brazil , Chile , Finland , Hungary , Sweden , and Australia , with 67 . 1 % of females from the U . S .
The racial / ethnic distribution was Caucasian ( 71 . 2 % ) , African - American ( 14 . 1 % ) , Asian ( 3 . 5 % ) , other / multiple races ( 11 . 2 % ) ; 28 . 7 % of the study population was Hispanic .
The mean age was 26 . 7 years and the mean ( range ) BMI was 24 . 1 ( 16 . 0 , 41 . 5 ) kg / m2 .
At approximately 50 % enrollment , women with BMI > 29 . 0 kg / m2 were no longer enrolled in the two trials and all women with a BMI > 29 . 0 kg / m2 were discontinued from the trials .
Based on pooled data from the two trials , 2 , 111 females ≤ 35 years of age completed 17 , 427 evaluable 28 - day cycles ( cycles in which no back - up contraception was used ) .
The pooled pregnancy rate , evaluated by the Pearl Index ( PI ) , was 2 . 98 ( 95 % Confidence Interval [ 2 . 13 , 4 . 06 ] ) per 100 woman - years of ANNOVERA use .
Return to fertility was assessed in 290 of the subjects in the two trials who either desired pregnancy or switched to a nonhormonal method after the trials , and all 290 subjects reported a return to fertility during the 6 - month follow - up period ( defined as a return of menses or pregnancy ) .
15 REFERENCES • Dinger , J et .
al . , Cardiovascular risk associated with the use of an etonogestrel - containing vaginal ring .
Obstetrics & Gynecology 2013 ; 122 ( 4 ) : 800 - 808 .
• Sidney , S . et .
al . , Recent combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) and the risk of thromboembolism and other cardiovascular events in new users .
Contraception 2013 ; 87 : 93 – 100 .
• Combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) and the risk of cardiovascular endpoints .
Sidney , S . ( primary author ) http : / / www . fda . gov / downloads / Drugs / DrugSafety / UCM277384 . pdf , accessed 04 - April - 2019 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ANNOVERA ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) is a toroidal - shaped ( ring ) , nonbiodegradable , flexible , opaque white vaginal system .
The vaginal system body has an overall diameter of 56 mm and a cross - sectional diameter of 8 . 4 mm .
When placed inside the vagina , each ANNOVERA releases an approximate average 0 . 15 mg / day of segesterone acetate and 0 . 013 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol over 21 - day in - use period of each cycle for up to 13 cycles ( total 273 days ) .
Each cycle is 28 days , with 21 days in and 7 days out .
Each ANNOVERA is individually packaged in an aluminum pouch .
The pouch consists of a laminate from outside to inside of polyester , aluminum foil , and polyethylene .
A black compact case is provided with the drug product for storage of ANNOVERA by patients during each 7 - day vaginal system - out interval .
The vaginal system should be placed in the compact case after 13 cycles of use and discarded via a drug take - back option if one is available .
If a take - back option is unavailable , then discard in the waste receptacle out of reach of children and pets .
The vaginal system should NOT be flushed down the toilet .
See www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information about disposal of medicines .
Each box contains 1 ANNOVERA vaginal system in a pouch and 1 storage case .
NDC 50261 - 313 - 01 16 . 2 Storage Conditions Prior to dispensing ANNOVERA to the user , store ANNOVERA at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect ANNOVERA from direct sunlight .
Do not refrigerate or freeze and avoid excessive heat .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from CHC use , and females who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use ANNOVERA [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Venous Thromboembolism Increased risk of VTE compared to nonusers of CHCs is greatest after initially starting a CHC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater dose - free interval ) the same or a different CHC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Sexually Transmitted Infections ANNOVERA does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
ANNOVERA is compatible with male condoms made with natural rubber latex , polyisoprene , and polyurethane .
Use During Pregnancy ANNOVERA is not to be used during pregnancy ; instruct the patient to remove ANNOVERA if pregnancy is confirmed during treatment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
ANNOVERA Dosing and Instructions Advise the woman on proper use of ANNOVERA and what to do if she does not comply with the labeled timing of insertion and removal .
The efficacy of ANNOVERA is greatest when ANNOVERA is kept in the vagina continuously for the scheduled 21 consecutive days .
Removal of ANNOVERA even briefly during the scheduled 21 days of use can reduce efficacy .
ANNOVERA should be washed with mild soap and water and rinsed and patted dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel prior to each insertion and at each removal .
Prior to initial use , the storage case should be labeled with the discard date to avoid using the product beyond 13 cycles [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and FDA - approved Patient Information ] .
Place the completely used ANNOVERA in the case provided and discard via a drug take - back option if one is available .
If a take - back option is unavailable , then discard in the waste receptacle out of reach of children and pets .
The vaginal system should NOT be flushed down the toilet .
See www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information about disposal of medicines .
[ see How Supplied ( 16 . 1 ) ] .
Use with Vaginal Products Water - based vaginal lubricants have no effect on the vaginal system ; however , oil - based ( including silicone - based ) vaginal lubricants will alter the vaginal system and / or exposure to EE and SA and should not be used [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Need for Additional Contraception Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when : Enzyme inducers are used with CHCs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
ANNOVERA has been out for more than 2 hours cumulative during the 21 days of continuous use or the vaginal system - free interval exceeds 7 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Postpartum females who have not yet had a period should use an additional method of contraception until ANNOVERA has been in place for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Lactation ANNOVERA may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
Females who are breastfeeding should not use ANNOVERA until after weaning [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Amenorrhea and Possible Symptoms of Pregnancy Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea and rule out pregnancy if amenorrhea is associated with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Fertility Following Discontinuation of ANNOVERA Resumption of fertility after discontinuation of ANNOVERA is expected .
All women followed for return of fertility experienced a return of fertility by 6 months after discontinuing ANNOVERA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patient Information ANNOVERA ® ( ann - o - VER - ah ) ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) Read this Patient Information carefully before you decide if ANNOVERA is right for you .
This information does not take the place of talking with your gynecologist or other healthcare provider who specializes in women ' s health .
If you have any questions about ANNOVERA , ask your healthcare provider .
You should also learn about other birth control methods to choose the one that is best for you .
What is the most important information I should know about ANNOVERA ?
• Do not use ANNOVERA if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious heart and blood vessel ( cardiovascular ) side effects from hormonal birth control methods , including death from heart attack , blood clots , or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
ANNOVERA does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
What is ANNOVERA ?
ANNOVERA is a hormone - releasing system used by females who are able to become pregnant to prevent pregnancy .
You insert ANNOVERA into your vagina .
ANNOVERA is in the shape of a ring that is reusable for 1 year .
The vaginal system is made of silicone and contains two female hormones that are slowly released into your vagina and then enter your blood .
One hormone is an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol .
The other hormone is a progestin called segesterone acetate .
How well does ANNOVERA work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for using the vaginal system .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of two clinical studies that lasted 12 months , about 2 to 4 women out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use ANNOVERA .
ANNOVERA was designed to be reused for 1 year .
Replace ANNOVERA at the end of 1 year if you choose to continue using ANNOVERA .
There is not enough hormone left in the vaginal system to provide you effective birth control after 1 year of use .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in how well they work to prevent pregnancy .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box at the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
ANNOVERA , a vaginal system with hormones , is in the second box from the top of the chart .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not use ANNOVERA ?
Do not use ANNOVERA if you : • smoke and are over 35 years old .
• have or have had a blood clot in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes .
• have had a stroke .
• have reduced blood flow to your brain ( cerebrovascular disease ) .
• have reduced blood flow or blockage in 1 or more of the arteries that supply blood to your heart ( coronary artery disease ) .
• have had a heart attack .
• have heart rhythm or heart valve problems that increase your risk of having blood clots , such as an infection of the inner lining of the heart and heart valves or a type of irregular heartbeat called atrial fibrillation .
• have a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal .
• have high blood pressure that is not controlled with medicine or have high blood pressure with blood vessel damage .
• have diabetes and are over 35 years old ; have diabetes with high blood pressure or problems with your kidneys , blood vessels , eyes , or nerves ; or have had diabetes for longer than 20 years .
• have headaches with changes in vision , numbness or weakness , have migraine headaches with aura , or are over age 35 years old and have any type of migraine headaches .
• have liver disease or liver tumors .
• have or have had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to the female hormones estrogen or progesterone .
• have unexplained vaginal bleeding .
• are allergic to segesterone acetate , ethinyl estradiol , or any of the ingredients in ANNOVERA .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in ANNOVERA .
• take any Hepatitis C drug combination medicine containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) in the blood .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using ANNOVERA ?
Before you use ANNOVERA tell your healthcare provider if you : • have any of the conditions listed above .
• smoke .
• are pregnant or think you are pregnant .
• recently had a baby , miscarriage , or abortion .
• have breast problems such as an abnormal mammogram or breast x - ray , breast nodules , fibrocystic breast disease , or a family history of breast cancer .
• have any medical condition , especially migraine headaches , depression , seizures , diabetes , high blood pressure , high cholesterol or triglycerides , gallbladder disease , liver disease , heart disease , or kidney disease .
• have a family history of blood clots or stroke .
• have yellowing of the skin or eyes ( jaundice ) .
• have a condition that makes your vagina become irritated easily .
• have a history of toxic shock syndrome .
• had gallbladder problems when you were pregnant .
• are scheduled for surgery .
The hormones in ANNOVERA may increase your risk of blood clots after surgery .
You should stop using ANNOVERA at least 4 weeks before you have surgery and not restart until at least 2 weeks after your surgery .
• are scheduled for any laboratory tests .
Certain blood tests may be affected by hormonal birth control methods .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
You should not use ANNOVERA if you are breastfeeding .
The hormones in ANNOVERA may decrease your milk production .
The hormones in ANNOVERA pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements make hormonal contraception less effective , such as : • anti - seizure medicines • medicine used to treat fungal infections • combinations of HIV medicines • Hepatitis C ( HCV ) medicines • non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors • medicine to treat tuberculosis • medicine to treat high blood pressure in the vessels of the lung • medicine to treat chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting • St . John ' s wort Talk to your healthcare provider if you take any of the medicines listed above to see if the specific medicine you take may make hormonal contraceptives less effective .
Use a back - up or another birth control method when you take medicine that may make hormonal contraceptives less effective and for 28 days after stopping the medicine .
Do not use any vaginal products such as oil - based suppositories , oil - based creams , or oil - based gels while the vaginal system is in your vagina .
Do not use any vaginal lubricants that have silicone or oil in them .
Water - based lubricants are ok to use .
Be sure to read the ingredients on the label carefully before you buy a vaginal lubricant .
Some medicines and grapefruit juice may increase the level of ethinyl estradiol in your blood if used together , including : • the pain reliever acetaminophen • ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) • types of medicines used to treat fungal infections • HIV medicines • non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors • medicines to lower cholesterol ANNOVERA may affect the way that lamotrigine ( a medicine used to treat seizures ) works and may increase the risk of seizures .
Your healthcare provider may need to adjust your dose of lamotrigine .
Females who take thyroid hormone replacement medicine or corticosteroid replacement medicine may need increased doses of their thyroid hormone or cortisol medicines .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you take any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
Talk to your healthcare provider before you start taking a new medicine .
How should I use ANNOVERA ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information that comes with ANNOVERA for information about the right way to insert , remove , clean , store , and dispose of ( throw away ) ANNOVERA .
• Use ANNOVERA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
ANNOVERA is a hormonal birth control method that is used for 3 out of 4 weeks every month .
The same vaginal system is reusable for up to 1 full year ( 1 year includes 13 cycles ; each cycle is 28 days ) .
After you insert ANNOVERA for the first time , you will remove it at the end of week 3 and leave it out for 7 days .
You will reinsert ANNOVERA at the end of week 4 of each 4 - week cycle .
You will repeat this pattern with ANNOVERA for up to 13 cycles .
Scheduled insertions and removals of ANNOVERA should be at about the same time of the day and the same day of the week for each monthly cycle .
• The day of the week when you first insert ANNOVERA ( referred to as “ Day 1 ” ) is your vaginal system change day .
• For each cycle , you put the vaginal system into your vagina and let it stay there 3 weeks ( 21 full days ) .
Remember to keep the vaginal system in for the whole 3 weeks ( 21 full days ) .
• You take the vaginal system out on your vaginal system change day ( Day 22 ) and let it stay out for 1 week ( 7 full days ) .
Note that your vaginal system should be cleaned with warm water and mild soap , dried with a clean cloth towel or paper towel , and stored in the case provided , away from children , pets , and extreme temperatures .
( See the Instructions for Use . )
• Then you start over again for another 4 weeks .
You may not be bleeding when you put the vaginal system in .
• Always put the vaginal system in or take it out on your vaginal system change day at about the same time of day .
For example , if you put your vaginal system in on Monday at 9 : 00 in the morning , always take it out or put it back in on Monday at about 9 : 00 in the morning .
• You do not have to take the vaginal system out when you have sex .
If you decide to remove it , remember to reinsert it within 2 hours after removing it or you may not be protected from pregnancy .
However , if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina for more than 2 hours at one time or if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina at different times that add up to more than a total of 2 hours over the first 21 days of your cycle , you will need to use another method of birth control ( such as male condoms or spermicide ) until ANNOVERA has been in your vagina for 7 days in a row .
The diagram shows the timing for putting the vaginal system in and taking it out for 2 cycles .
Schedule Cycle 1 Put vaginal system in → ( vaginal system change day ) Day 1 Weeks 1 , 2 , and 3 Days 1 - 21 Take vaginal system out → ( vaginal system change day ) Day 22 Week 4 Days 22 - 28 Cycle 2 ( repeat for Cycles 3 - 13 ) Put vaginal system in → ( vaginal system change day ) Day 1 Weeks 1 , 2 , and 3 Days 1 - 21 Take vaginal system out → ( vaginal system change day ) Day 22 Week 4 Days 22 - 28 • Repeat the 4 - week cycle for all 13 cycles of the use of the vaginal system .
• Do not use the vaginal system for more than 13 cycles ( 1 year ) .
At the end of the 13 cycles , take the vaginal system out of your vagina .
Place the used vaginal system in the case that comes with ANNOVERA and dispose of it ( throw away ) at a drug take - back location , if available .
If a drug take - back location is not available , dispose of it in the trash out of reach of children and pets .
Do notflush ANNOVERA down the toilet .
• If you want to continue using ANNOVERA after 13 cycles , you will need to receive a new prescription from your healthcare provider for a new vaginal system .
• If you start using ANNOVERA 4 or more weeks after having a baby and you have not had a menstrual period yet , you should use another method of birth control until you have used ANNOVERA for 7 days in a row .
What happens if I am off schedule using the vaginal system ?
It is very important to follow the schedule every cycle and remove and insert ANNOVERA on your vaginal system - in and vaginal system - out days at about the same time .
If you take the vaginal system out too soon or put it back in too late , your chance of getting pregnant is higher .
If you are more than 1 or 2 days off schedule for vaginal system insertion you will need to use new vaginal system - in and vaginal system - out days for the remaining cycles of use .
You will also need to use back - up contraception , such as condoms or spermicide , for the first 7 days of the new schedule if you have sexual intercourse .
If you put the vaginal system back in : Then : Too early , after it had been out for only 5 or 6 days .
Keep the vaginal system in for at least 3 weeks ( 21 days ) .
You may keep it in up to your normal vaginal system - out day .
Too late , after it had been out for more than 7 days .
Put the vaginal system back in right away .
You will now have a new vaginal system - in day .
You must use condoms or spermicide as back - up contraception for the next 7 days when you have sexual intercourse .
If you took the vaginal system out : Then : Too early , after it had been in for only 19 or 20 days .
Leave the vaginal system out for 1 week .
Put it back in after the week is over , as you would normally do .
You may then keep it in up to your normal vaginal system - out day , 22 or 23 days after you put the vaginal system in .
Too late , after it had been in for 22 or 23 days .
Remove the vaginal system as soon as you realize this .
Then reinsert the vaginal system 7 days later .
During the 21 days of continuous use , if ANNOVERA is out of the vagina for more than 2 continuous hours or more than 2 cumulative hours ( multiple inadvertent removals or expulsions adding up to 2 hours ) , then back - up contraception such as male condoms or spermicide should be used until the vaginal system has been in the vagina for 7 consecutive days .
What if I miss my menstrual period or if I think I am pregnant ?
It is possible that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the 7 days that the vaginal system is out ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away that you have missed your period .
Also , tell your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider check you to find out if you are pregnant .
You may need a pregnancy test to determine if you are pregnant .
Do not remove the vaginal system until you are certain you are pregnant .
Stop using ANNOVERA if your healthcare provider tells you that you are pregnant .
What are the possible side effects of ANNOVERA ?
ANNOVERA can cause serious side effects , including : See : “ What is the most important information I should know about ANNOVERA ? ”
• blood clots . Like pregnancy , hormonal contraceptives increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
This increased risk is highest when you first start taking hormonal contraceptives and when you restart the same or different hormonal contraceptive after not using it for 4 weeks or more .
• It is possible to die or be permanently disabled from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke . Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) • lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • heart ( heart attack ) • brain ( stroke ) • Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care right away if you have : • leg pain that does not go away • sudden shortness of breath • sudden changes in vision or blindness • severe pain or pressure in your chest • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in an arm or leg • trouble speaking • toxic shock syndrome ( TSS ) .
Some symptoms of TSS are the same as flu symptoms , but they can become serious very quickly .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care right away if you have the following symptoms : • sudden high fever • vomiting • diarrhea • fainting or feeling faint when standing up • a sunburn - like rash • muscle aches • dizziness • liver problems , including liver tumors .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) .
• high blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems or worsening of a gallbladder problem you already have .
You may have an increased risk of gallbladder problems with the use of ANNOVERA if you had gallbladder problems when you were pregnant .
• changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood .
• headache .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have new headaches that keep coming back , that do not go away , or are severe .
Also tell your healthcare provider if your migraine headaches happen more often or are more severe than normal .
• irregular or unusual vaginal bleeding and spotting between your menstrual periods , especially during the first month of using ANNOVERA , or the absence of menstrual periods ( amenorrhea ) .
• depression .
• possible cancer in your cervix .
• swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care right away if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth , tongue , or throat as this may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your risk of having angioedema is higher if you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin on your forehead , cheeks , upper lip , and chin ( chloasma ) .
Your risk of getting chloasma with the use of ANNOVERA is higher if you had chloasma during pregnancy .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sunlamps while using ANNOVERA .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
The most common side effects of ANNOVERA include : • headache , including migraine • nausea / vomiting • vaginal yeast infection ( candidiasis ) • lower / upper abdomen pain • painful periods • vaginal discharge • urinary tract infection • breast pain / tenderness • irregular vaginal bleeding • diarrhea • genital itching This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to TherapeuticsMD ® at 1 - 888 - 228 - 0150 .
No serious problems have been reported from a hormonal contraceptive overdose .
Does hormonal birth control cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control causes breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use hormonal contraceptives may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What should I know about my period when taking ANNOVERA ?
When you take ANNOVERA you should expect to have regular 28 - day cycles .
Each period is likely to last about 5 days .
You may have bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods especially during the first cycle .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease after the first cycle .
Do not stop taking ANNOVERA because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is unusually heavy , call your healthcare provider .
Tell your healthcare provider if you do not have your period .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop using ANNOVERA whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking ANNOVERA .
General information about the safe and effective use of ANNOVERA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ANNOVERA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ANNOVERA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ANNOVERA that is written for health professionals .
What if I have other questions ?
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
What are the ingredients in ANNOVERA ?
Active ingredients : segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : dibutyltin dilaurate , silicone elastomers , silicone medical adhesive , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use ANNOVERA ® ( ann - o - VER - ah ) ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) Read this Instructions for Use carefully before you decide if ANNOVERA is right for you .
This information does not take the place of talking with your gynecologist or other healthcare provider who specializes in women ' s health .
If you have any questions about ANNOVERA , ask your healthcare provider .
You should also learn about other birth control methods to choose the one that is best for you .
How should I start using ANNOVERA ?
If you are not currently using hormonal birth control , start using ANNOVERA between Days 2 and 5 of your menstrual period .
• If your menstrual periods are not regular or if you start using ANNOVERA more than 5 days from when you started your menstrual period , you should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide during sexual intercourse for the first 7 days you use ANNOVERA .
If you are changing from a birth control pill or patch or monthly disposable contraceptive vaginal ring to ANNOVERA : • If you have been using your birth control method correctly and are certain that you are not pregnant , you can change to ANNOVERA any day of your birth control cycle .
Do not start ANNOVERA any later than the day you would start your next birth control pill , apply your next patch or insert your next monthly disposable contraceptive vaginal ring .
If you are changing from a progestin - only birth control method , such as a minipill , injection , implant or intrauterine system ( IUS ) : • You may switch from a minipill on any day .
Start using ANNOVERA on the day that you would have taken your next minipill .
• You should switch from an injectable and start using ANNOVERA on the day when your next injection would be due .
• You should switch from an implant or the IUS and start using ANNOVERA at the time the implant or IUS is removed .
If you are changing from a minipill , injection , implant , or an intrauterine system to ANNOVERA , you should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide , during sexual intercourse for the first 7 days you use ANNOVERA .
If you start using ANNOVERA after an abortion or miscarriage : • Following a first trimester abortion or miscarriage : You may start ANNOVERA within 5 days following a first trimester abortion or miscarriage ( the first 12 weeks of pregnancy ) .
You do not need to use an additional birth control method .
• If you do not start ANNOVERA within 5 days after a first trimester abortion or miscarriage , use a non - hormonal birth control method , such as male condoms or spermicide , while you wait for your menstrual period to start .
Start using ANNOVERA between days 2 and 5 of your menstrual period .
• If you start using ANNOVERA more than 5 days from when you started your menstrual period , you should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide during sexual intercourse for the first 7 days you use ANNOVERA .
• Following a second trimester abortion or miscarriage : You may start using ANNOVERA no sooner than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) after a second trimester abortion ( after the first 12 weeks of pregnancy ) .
If you are starting ANNOVERA after childbirth : • You may start using ANNOVERA no sooner than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) after having a baby if you are not breastfeeding .
• If you have not gotten your menstrual period after childbirth , you should talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need a pregnancy test to make sure you are not pregnant before you start using ANNOVERA .
• Use another birth control method , such as a male condom or spermicide , during sexual intercourse for the first 7 days you use ANNOVERA if you have not yet had a period .
If you are breastfeeding , you should not use ANNOVERA .
Use other birth control methods until you are no longer breastfeeding .
How do I use ANNOVERA ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 .
Open the package and remove ANNOVERA .
• Wash your hands with mild soap and water .
Dry them well .
• Take ANNOVERA out of its package ( See Figure , Step 1 ) .
• Wash ANNOVERA with mild soap and water , rinse and pat dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Prepare to insert ANNOVERA .
• Hold ANNOVERA between your thumb and first ( index ) finger .
• Press the sides of ANNOVERA together to make it narrow ( See Figure , Step 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Choose a position for insertion of ANNOVERA .
• Choose the position that is comfortable for you .
For example , lying down , squatting , or standing with 1 leg up ( See Figures , Steps 3 - A , 3 - B , 3 - C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Insert ANNOVERA into your vagina .
• Gently insert the folded ANNOVERA into your vagina ( See Figure , Step 4 - A ) .
• Push ANNOVERA further up into your vagina using your index finger .
• Push it in as far as you can .
It sometimes helps to push down with the muscles in your vagina while you are inserting ANNOVERA .
• When you insert ANNOVERA , it may be in different positions in your vagina , but ANNOVERA does not have to be in an exact position for it to work .
• Mark your vaginal system “ in day ” on your calendar .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : • If you feel the ANNOVERA in your vagina or if it feels uncomfortable , you may not have pushed the ANNOVERA into your vagina far enough .
Use your index finger to gently push ANNOVERA as far as you can into your vagina ( See Figure , Step 4 - B ) .
There is no danger of ANNOVERA being pushed too far up in the vagina or getting lost .
• You should not feel ANNOVERA after you have placed it into your vagina .
• Some women and their partners may be aware of ANNOVERA in the vagina during sexual intercourse .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
How do I remove ANNOVERA ?
• Wash and dry your hands .
• Choose the position that is most comfortable for you ( See Step 3 ) .
• Put your index finger into your vagina and hook it through ANNOVERA .
Gently pull downward and forward to remove ANNOVERA and pull it out ( See Figure , Step 5 ) .
It sometimes helps to push down with the muscles in your vagina while you are removing ANNOVERA .
• Wash the ANNOVERA vaginal system with mild soap and lukewarm water , pat it dry , and store in the case provided .
• Mark your vaginal system “ out day ” on your calendar .
What else should I know about ANNOVERA ?
• The day of the week when you first insert ANNOVERA ( called “ Day 1 ” ) is your vaginal system change day .
This is described further in the Patient Information section entitled “ How should I use ANNOVERA ? ”
• For each cycle , you put the vaginal system into your vagina and let it stay there 3 weeks ( 21 full days ) .
Remember to keep the vaginal system in for the whole 3 weeks ( 21 full days ) .
• You take the vaginal system out on your vaginal system change day ( Day 22 ) and let it stay out for 1 week ( 7 full days ) .
Note that your vaginal system should be stored in the case provided , away from children , pets , and extreme temperatures .
• Then you start over again for another 4 weeks .
You may not be bleeding when you put the vaginal system in .
• Always put the vaginal system in or take it out on your vaginal system change day at about the same time of day .
For example , if you put your vaginal system in on Monday at 9 : 00 in the morning , always take it out or put it back in on Monday at about 9 : 00 in the morning .
• You do not have to take the vaginal system out when you have sex .
If you decide to remove it , remember to reinsert it within 2 hours after removing it or you may not be protected from pregnancy .
However , if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina for more than 2 hours at one time or if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina at different times that add up to more than a total of 2 hours over the first 21 days of your cycle , you will need to use another method of birth control until ANNOVERA has been in your vagina for 7 days in a row , such as male condoms or spermicides .
• Repeat the 4 - week cycle for all 13 cycles of the use of the vaginal system .
• Do not use the vaginal system for more than 13 cycles ( 1 year ) .
When you take the vaginal system out of your vagina at the end of the 13 cycles , dispose of it .
See “ How should I dispose of ( throw away ) ANNOVERA ? ”
below .
• If you want to continue using ANNOVERA after 13 cycles , you will need to get a new prescription from your healthcare provider to obtain a new vaginal system .
• Do not to use any vaginal products such as oil - based suppositories , oil - based creams , or oil - based gels while the vaginal system is in your vagina .
Do not use any vaginal lubricants that have silicone or oil in them .
Water - based lubricants are ok to use .
Be sure to read the ingredients on the labels carefully before you buy a vaginal lubricant .
• Do not take any medicines unless your healthcare provider says it is ok to take them .
Tell your healthcare provider when you start a new medicine .
How do I clean ANNOVERA ?
• After removing ANNOVERA from your vagina , wash it with mild soap and warm water , rinse , and pat it dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel before you store it .
Only use mild soap and warm water to clean .
• Wash ANNOVERA with mild soap and warm water and pat it dry before you put it back into your vagina .
• Store ANNOVERA in the case provided .
How should I store ANNOVERA ?
• Store ANNOVERA in the supplied case at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Protect ANNOVERA from direct sunlight .
• Do not refrigerate or freeze ANNOVERA .
• Avoid storing ANNOVERA in extreme heat .
• Keep ANNOVERA and all medicines out of the reach of children and pets .
How should I dispose of ( throw away ) ANNOVERA ?
• After 13 cycles of use , place ANNOVERA in the case that comes with it .
• Dispose of ANNOVERA at a drug take - back location , if available .
If a drug take - back location is not available , dispose of ANNOVERA in the trash , out of the reach of children and pets .
• Do not throw away ANNOVERA in the toilet .
• See www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information about disposal of medicines .
When does ANNOVERA become effective ?
ANNOVERA becomes effective on the day it is inserted ( Day 1 ) , if it is inserted between Days 2 and 5 of your menstrual period .
If ANNOVERA is inserted more than 5 days from when you start your menstrual period , you should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide , during sexual intercourse for the first 7 days you use ANNOVERA .
Will ANNOVERA interfere during sexual intercourse ?
• If ANNOVERA is placed as high as possible in your vagina , it will not interfere with sexual intercourse .
Can I take ANNOVERA out during the first 3 weeks of my cycle ?
• You should leave ANNOVERA in the entire 21 days ( 3 weeks ) .
• If ANNOVERA comes out or if you remove it , put it back in as soon as possible .
If you put ANNOVERA back into your vagina before 2 hours has passed , you do not need to use another method of birth control .
However , if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina for more than 2 hours at one time or if ANNOVERA is out of your vagina at different times that add up to more than a total of 2 hours over the first 21 days of your cycle , you will need to use another method of birth control until ANNOVERA has been in your vagina for 7 days in a row , such as male condoms or spermicides .
What should I do if ANNOVERA comes out of my vagina ?
ANNOVERA can slip or accidentally come out of your vagina ( expelled ) , for example , during sexual intercourse , bowel movements , or use of tampons .
• If ANNOVERA slips out of your vagina , wash ANNOVERA with mild soap and warm water , rinse and pat dry with a clean cloth towel or paper towel and put it back in your vagina right away or within 2 hours .
See “ Can I take ANNOVERA out during the first 3 weeks of my cycle ? ”
in the section above .
• ANNOVERA can move around and become visible at the opening of your vagina .
If this happens follow “ Step 4 ” above for directions on how to push ANNOVERA back to its right position .
What if I lose ANNOVERA ?
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you lose ANNOVERA .
You should use a back - up method of birth control such as a male condom or spermicide for preventing pregnancy until you get a new ANNOVERA .
If you have other questions call your healthcare provider .
For information , go to www . TherapeuticsMD . com or call TherapeuticsMD , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 833 - 0176 Manufactured for TherapeuticsMD , Inc . , Boca Raton , FL 33431 ANNOVERA is a registered trademark of Population Council and licensed by TherapeuticsMD , Inc .
© TherapeuticsMD , Inc .
All rights reserved .
The Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
ANVA - LAB - 20001 . 3 Revised : 04 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Annovera Carton Label NDC 50261 - 313 - 01 Rx only ANNOVERA ® ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) Delivers 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 013 mg per day This product is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
TherapeuticsMD ® For Vaginal Use CONTAINS 1 VAGINAL SYSTEM Keep out of reach of children and pets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Annovera Pouch Label NDC 50261 - 313 - 01 Rx only ANNOVERA ® ( segesterone acetate and ethinyl estradiol vaginal system ) Delivers 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 013 mg per day This product is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
For Vaginal Use CONTAINS 1 VAGINAL SYSTEM Keep out of reach of children and pets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Annovera Storage Label Fill in the discard date below and attach this sticker to your ANNOVERA ® storage case ANNOVERA ® Storage Case Discard Date : __ / __ / __ Discard 1 year after first insertion Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Protect ANNOVERA from direct sunlight Lot : XXXXX Distributed by : TherapeuticsMD ® , Inc .
Boca Raton , FL 33431 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
