Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of botherosme mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • adults and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • each 20 mL contains : sodium 20 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 723 - 3929 Monday - Friday 7 AM - 6 PM PST Principal Display Panel FOR AGES 12 YEARS & OVER MAXIMUM STRENGTH DM Max Relief Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Relief of : cough , mucus & chest congestion FL OZ ( mL ) Compare to Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® DM Max active ingredients * * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® DM Max .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY : BETTER LIVING BRANDS LLC P . O . BOX 99 , PLEASANTON , CA 94566 - 0009 www . betterlivingbrandsLLC . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
