[ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING Use with extreme caution in patients with impaired renal function .
Close monitoring of hematologic , renal and hepatic status of all patients is essential .
These instructions should be thoroughly reviewed before administration of Flucytosine Capsules .
DESCRIPTION Flucytosine Capsules , an antifungal agent , are available as 250 mg and 500 mg capsules for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient of flucytosine , each capsule contains corn starch , lactose and talc .
The 250 mg capsule shell contains black iron oxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The 500 mg capsule shell contains black iron oxide , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
Chemically , flucytosine is 5 - fluorocytosine , a fluorinated pyrimidine which is related to fluorouracil and floxuridine .
It is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 129 . 09 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Flucytosine is rapidly and virtually completely absorbed following oral administration .
Flucytosine Capsules are not metabolized significantly when given orally to man .
Bioavailability estimated by comparing the area under the curve of serum concentrations after oral and intravenous administration showed 78 % to 89 % absorption of the oral dose .
Peak serum concentrations of 30 to 40 mcg / mL were reached within 2 hours of administration of a 2 g oral dose to normal subjects .
Other studies revealed mean serum concentrations of approximately 70 to 80 mcg / mL 1 to 2 hours after a dose in patients with normal renal function receiving a 6 - week regimen of flucytosine ( 150 mg / kg / day given in divided doses every 6 hours ) in combination with amphotericin B .
The half - life in the majority of healthy subjects ranged between 2 . 4 and 4 . 8 hours .
Flucytosine is excreted via the kidneys by means of glomerular filtration without significant tubular reabsorption .
More than 90 % of the total radioactivity after oral administration was recovered in the urine as intact drug .
Flucytosine is deaminated ( probably by gut bacteria ) to 5 - fluorouracil .
The area under the curve ( AUC ) ratio of 5 - fluorouracil to flucytosine is 4 % .
Approximately 1 % of the dose is present in the urine as the α - fluoro - β - ureido - propionic acid metabolite .
A small portion of the dose is excreted in the feces .
The half - life of flucytosine is prolonged in patients with renal insufficiency ; the average half - life in nephrectomized or anuric patients was 85 hours ( range : 29 . 9 to 250 hours ) .
A linear correlation was found between the elimination rate constant of flucytosine and creatinine clearance .
In vitro studies have shown that 2 . 9 % to 4 % of flucytosine is protein - bound over the range of therapeutic concentrations found in the blood .
Flucytosine readily penetrates the blood - brain barrier , achieving clinically significant concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid .
Pharmacokinetics in Pediatric Patients Limited data are available regarding the pharmacokinetics of Flucytosine Capsules administered to neonatal patients being treated for systemic candidiasis .
After five days of continuous therapy , median peak levels in infants were 19 . 6 mcg / mL , 27 . 7 mcg / mL , and 83 . 9 mcg / mL at doses of 25 mg / kg ( N = 3 ) , 50 mg / kg ( N = 4 ) , and 100 mg / kg ( N = 3 ) , respectively .
Mean time to peak serum levels was of 2 . 5 ± 1 . 3 hours , similar to that observed in adult patients .
A good deal of interindividual variability was noted , which did not correlate with gestational age .
Some patients had serum levels > 100 mcg / mL , suggesting a need for drug level monitoring during therapy .
In another study , serum concentrations were determined during flucytosine therapy in two patients ( total assays performed = 10 ) .
Median serum flucytosine concentrations at steady state were calculated to be 57 ± 10 mcg / mL ( doses of 50 to 125 mg / kg / day , normalized to 25 mg / kg per dose for comparison ) .
In three infants receiving flucytosine 25 mg / kg / day ( four divided doses ) , a median flucytosine half - life of 7 . 4 hours was observed , approximately double that seen in adult patients .
The concentration of flucytosine in the cerebrospinal fluid of one infant was 43 mcg / mL 3 hours after a 25 mg oral dose , and ranged from 20 to 67 mg / L in another neonate receiving oral doses of 120 to 150 mg / kg / day .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Flucytosine is taken up by fungal organisms via the enzyme cytosine permease .
Inside the fungal cell , flucytosine is rapidly converted to fluorouracil by the enzyme cytosine deaminase .
Fluorouracil exerts its antifungal activity through the subsequent conversion into several active metabolites , which inhibit protein synthesis by being falsely incorporated into fungal RNA or interfere with the biosynthesis of fungal DNA through the inhibition of the enzyme thymidylate synthetase .
Activity In Vitro Flucytosine has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections .
Candida albicans Cryptococcus neoformans Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
Drug Resistance Flucytosine resistance may arise from a mutation of an enzyme necessary for the cellular uptake or metabolism of flucytosine or from an increased synthesis of pyrimidines , which compete with the active metabolites of flucytosine ( fluorinated antimetabolites ) .
Resistance to flucytosine has been shown to develop during monotherapy after prolonged exposure to the drug .
Drug Combination Antifungal synergism between flucytosine and polyene antibiotics , particularly amphotericin B has been reported in vitro .
Flucytosine Capsules are usually administered in combination with amphotericin B due to lack of cross - resistance and reported synergistic activity of both drugs .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Flucytosine Capsules are indicated only in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of Candida and / or Cryptococcus .
Candida : Septicemia , endocarditis and urinary system infections have been effectively treated with flucytosine .
Limited trials in pulmonary infections justify the use of flucytosine Cryptococcus : Meningitis and pulmonary infections have been treated effectively .
Studies in septicemias and urinary tract infections are limited , but good responses have been reported .
Flucytosine Capsules should be used in combination with amphotericin B for the treatment of systemic candidiasis and cryptococcosis because of the emergence of resistance to Flucytosine Capsules ( see MICROBIOLOGY ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Flucytosine Capsules should not be used in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Flucytosine Capsules must be given with extreme caution to patients with impaired renal function .
Since Flucytosine Capsules are excreted primarily by the kidneys , renal impairment may lead to accumulation of the drug .
Flucytosine Capsule serum concentrations should be monitored to determine the adequacy of renal excretion in such patients .
Dosage adjustments should be made in patients with renal insufficiency to prevent progressive accumulation of active drug .
Flucytosine Capsules must be given with extreme caution to patients with bone marrow depression .
Patients may be more prone to depression of bone marrow function if they : 1 ) have a hematologic disease , 2 ) are being treated with radiation or drugs which depress bone marrow , or 3 ) have a history of treatment with such drugs or radiation .
Bone marrow toxicity can be irreversible and may lead to death in immunosuppressed patients .
Frequent monitoring of hepatic function and of the hematopoietic system is indicated during therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General Before therapy with Flucytosine Capsules is instituted , electrolytes ( because of hypokalemia ) and the hematologic and renal status of the patient should be determined ( see WARNINGS ) .
Close monitoring of the patient during therapy is essential .
Laboratory Tests Since renal impairment can cause progressive accumulation of the drug , blood concentrations and kidney function should be monitored during therapy .
Hematologic status ( leucocyte and thrombocyte count ) and liver function ( alkaline phosphatase , SGOT and SGPT ) should be determined at frequent intervals during treatment as indicated .
Drug Interactions Cytosine arabinoside , a cytostatic agent , has been reported to inactivate the antifungal activity of Flucytosine Capsules by competitive inhibition .
Drugs which impair glomerular filtration may prolong the biological half - life of flucytosine .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Measurement of serum creatinine levels should be determined by the Jaffé reaction , since Flucytosine Capsules do not interfere with the determination of creatinine values by this method .
Most automated equipment for measurement of creatinine makes use of the Jaffé reaction .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Flucytosine has not undergone adequate animal testing to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
The mutagenic potential of flucytosine was evaluated in Ames - type studies with five different mutants of S . typhimurium and no mutagenicity was detected in the presence or absence of activating enzymes .
Flucytosine was nonmutagenic in three different repair assay systems ( i . e . , rec , uvr and pol ) .
There have been no adequate trials in animals on the effects of flucytosine on fertility or reproductive performance .
The fertility and reproductive performance of the offspring ( F1 generation ) of mice treated with 100 mg / kg / day ( 345 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 059 times the human dose ) , 200 mg / kg / day ( 690 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 118 times the human dose ) or 400 mg / kg / day ( 1380 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 236 times the human dose ) of flucytosine on days 7 to 13 of gestation was studied ; the in utero treatment had no adverse effect on the fertility or reproductive performance of the offspring .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Flucytosine was shown to be teratogenic ( vertebral fusions ) in the rat at doses of 40 mg / kg / day ( 298 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 051 times the human dose ) administered on days 7 to 13 of gestation .
At higher doses ( 700 mg / kg / day ; 5208 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 89 times the human dose administered on days 9 to 12 of gestation ) , cleft lip and palate and micrognathia were reported .
Flucytosine was not teratogenic in rabbits up to a dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( 1423 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 243 times the human dose ) administered on days 6 to 18 of gestation .
In mice , 400 mg / kg / day of flucytosine ( 1380 mg / M2 / day or 0 . 236 times the human dose ) administered on days 7 to 13 of gestation was associated with a low incidence of cleft palate that was not statistically significant .
Studies in pregnant rats have shown that flucytosine injected intraperitoneally crosses the placental barrier .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Flucytosine Capsules should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Flucytosine Capsules , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The efficacy and safety of Flucytosine Capsules have not been systematically studied in pediatric patients .
A small number of neonates have been treated with 25 to 200 mg / kg / day of flucytosine , with and without the addition of amphotericin B , for systemic candidiasis .
No unexpected adverse reactions were reported in these patients .
It should be noted , however , that hypokalemia and acidemia were reported in one patient who received flucytosine in combination with amphotericin B , and anemia was observed in a second patient who received flucytosine alone .
Transient thrombocytopenia was noted in two additional patients , one of whom also received amphotericin B . ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have occurred during treatment with Flucytosine Capsules are grouped according to organ system affected .
Cardiovascular : Cardiac arrest , myocardial toxicity , ventricular dysfunction .
Respiratory : Respiratory arrest , chest pain , dyspnea .
Dermatologic : Rash , pruritus , urticaria , photosensitivity .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , emesis , abdominal pain , diarrhea , anorexia , dry mouth , duodenal ulcer , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , acute hepatic injury including hepatic necrosis with possible fatal outcome in debilitated patients , hepatic dysfunction , jaundice , ulcerative colitis , enterocolitis , bilirubin elevation , increased hepatic enzymes .
Genitourinary : Azotemia , creatinine and BUN elevation , crystalluria , renal failure .
Hematologic : Anemia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , eosinophilia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , and fatal cases of bone marrow aplasia .
Neurologic : Ataxia , hearing loss , headache , paresthesia , parkinsonism , peripheral neuropathy , pyrexia , vertigo , sedation , convulsions .
Psychiatric : Confusion , hallucinations , psychosis .
Miscellaneous : Fatigue , hypoglycemia , hypokalemia , weakness , allergic reactions , Lyell ' s syndrome .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There is no experience with intentional overdosage .
It is reasonable to expect that overdosage may produce pronounced manifestations of the known clinical adverse reactions .
Prolonged serum concentrations in excess of 100 mcg / mL may be associated with an increased incidence of toxicity , especially gastrointestinal ( diarrhea , nausea , vomiting ) , hematologic ( leukopenia , thrombocytopenia ) and hepatic ( hepatitis ) .
In the management of overdosage , prompt gastric lavage or the use of an emetic is recommended .
Adequate fluid intake should be maintained , by the intravenous route if necessary , since Flucytosine Capsules are excreted unchanged via the renal tract .
The hematologic parameters should be monitored frequently ; liver and kidney function should be carefully monitored .
Should any abnormalities appear in any of these parameters , appropriate therapeutic measures should be instituted .
Since hemodialysis has been shown to rapidly reduce serum concentrations in anuric patients , this method may be considered in the management of overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage of Flucytosine Capsules is 50 to 150 mg / kg / day administered in divided doses at 6 - hour intervals .
Nausea or vomiting may be reduced or avoided if the capsules are given a few at a time over a 15 - minute period .
If the BUN or the serum creatinine is elevated , or if there are other signs of renal impairment , the initial dose should be at the lower level ( see WARNINGS ) .
Flucytosine Capsules should be used in combination with amphotericin B for the treatment of systemic candidiasis and cryptococcosis because of the emergence of resistance to Flucytosine Capsules ( see MICROBIOLOGY ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Flucytosine Capsules are supplied as capsules containing 250 mg flucytosine .
250 mg Capsules ( gray and green ) , imprinted ANCOBON ® 250 ICN , available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 63629 - 2147 - 1 ) .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Flucytosine 250 mg Cap , # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
