DESCRIPTION Nisoldipine is an extended - release tablet dosage form of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nisoldipine .
Nisoldipine is ( ± ) - Isobutyl methyl 1 , 4 - dihydro - 2 , 6 - dimethyl - 4 - ( o - nitrophenyl ) - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate , C20H24N2O6 , and has the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nisoldipine is a yellow crystalline powder , practically insoluble in water , but soluble in acetone , ethanol and methanol .
It has a molecular weight of 388 . 4 .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are film - coated monolithic tablets containing a hydrogel which provides for the controlled release of the drug .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets contain either 8 . 5 mg , 17 mg , 25 . 5 mg or 34 mg of nisoldipine for once - a - day oral administration .
Inactive ingredients include : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
In addition , the following product specific coloring agents are used : The 8 . 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
The 17 mg tablets also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
The 25 . 5 mg tablets also contain red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
The 34 mg tablets also contain FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Nisoldipine is a member of the dihydropyridine class of calcium channel antagonists ( calcium ion antagonists or slow channel blockers ) that inhibit the transmembrane influx of calcium into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
It reversibly competes with other dihydropyridines for binding to the calcium channel .
Because the contractile process of vascular smooth muscle is dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium into the muscle through specific ion channels , inhibition of the calcium channel results in dilation of the arterioles .
In vitro studies show that the effects of nisoldipine on contractile processes are selective , with greater potency on vascular smooth muscle than on cardiac muscle .
Although , like other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers , nisoldipine has negative inotropic effects .
In vitro studies conducted in intact anesthetized animals have shown that the vasodilating effect occurs at doses lower than those that affect cardiac contractility .
The effect of nisoldipine on blood pressure is principally a consequence of a dose related decrease of peripheral vascular resistance .
While nisoldipine , like other dihydropyridines , exhibits a mild diuretic effect , most of the antihypertensive activity is attributed to its effect on peripheral vascular resistance .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Nisoldipine pharmacokinetics are independent of the dose across the clinical dosage range of 17 mg to 51 mg , with plasma concentrations proportional to dose .
Nisoldipine accumulation , during multiple dosing , is predictable from a single dose .
Nisoldipine is relatively well absorbed into the systemic circulation with 87 % of the radiolabeled drug recovered in urine and feces .
The absolute bioavailability of nisoldipine is about 5 % .
Nisoldipine ’ s low bioavailability is due , in part , to pre - systemic metabolism in the gut wall , and this metabolism decreases from the proximal to the distal parts of the intestine .
A pronounced food - effect is observed when nisoldipine extended - release tablets are administered with a high - fat meal resulting in an increased peak concentration ( Cmax ) of up to 245 % .
Total exposure ( AUC ) is decreased by 25 % .
As a result , nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be taken on an empty stomach ( 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ) .
Maximal plasma concentrations of nisoldipine are reached at 9 . 2 ± 5 . 1 hours .
The terminal elimination half - life ( reflecting post absorption clearance of nisoldipine ) ranges from 13 . 7 ± 4 . 3 hours .
After oral administration , the concentration of ( + ) - nisoldipine , the active enantiomer , is about 6 times higher than the inactive ( - ) - nisoldipine enantiomer .
The plasma protein binding of nisoldipine is very high , with less than 1 % unbound over the plasma concentration range of 100 ng / mL to 10 mcg / mL .
Nisoldipine is highly metabolized ; 5 major urinary metabolites have been identified .
Although 60 % to 80 % of an oral dose undergoes urinary excretion , only traces of unchanged nisoldipine are found in urine .
The major biotransformation pathway appears to be the hydroxylation of the isobutyl ester .
A hydroxylated derivative of the side chain , present in plasma at concentrations approximately equal to the parent compound , appears to be the only active metabolite , and has about 10 % of the activity of the parent compound .
Cytochrome P450 enzymes are believed to play a major role in the metabolism of nisoldipine .
The particular isoenzyme system responsible for its metabolism has not been identified , but other dihydropyridines are metabolized by cytochrome P450 IIIA4 .
Nisoldipine should not be administered with grapefruit juice , as this has been shown , in a study of 12 subjects , to interfere with nisoldipine metabolism , resulting in a mean increase in Cmax of about 3 - fold ( ranging up to about 7 - fold ) and AUC of almost 2 - fold ( ranging up to about 5 - fold ) .
A similar phenomenon has been seen with several other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers .
Special Populations Renal Dysfunction Because renal elimination is not an important pathway , bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of nisoldipine extended - release tablets were not significantly different in patients with various degrees of renal impairment .
Dosing adjustments in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment are not necessary .
Geriatric Elderly patients have been found to have 2 - to 3 - fold higher plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC ) than young subjects .
This should be reflected in more cautious dosing ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency In patients with liver cirrhosis given a dose bioequivalent to 8 . 5 mg nisoldipine extended - release tablets , plasma concentrations of the parent compound were 4 to 5 times higher than those in healthy young subjects .
Lower starting and maintenance doses should be used in cirrhotic patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gender and Race The effect of gender or race on the pharmacokinetics of nisoldipine has not been investigated .
Disease States Hypertension does not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of nisoldipine .
Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamic Effects Administration of a single dose of nisoldipine leads to decreased systemic vascular resistance and blood pressure with a transient increase in heart rate .
The change in heart rate is greater with immediate release nisoldipine preparations .
The effect on blood pressure is directly related to the initial degree of elevation above normal .
Chronic administration of nisoldipine results in a sustained decrease in vascular resistance and small increases in stroke index and left ventricular ejection fraction .
A study of the immediate release formulation showed no effect of nisoldipine on the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system or on plasma norepinephrine concentration in normals .
Changes in blood pressure in hypertensive patients given nisoldipine extended - release tablets were dose related over the clinical dosage range .
Nisoldipine does not appear to have significant negative inotropic activity in intact animals or humans , and did not lead to worsening of clinical heart failure in three small studies of patients with asymptomatic and symptomatic left ventricular dysfunction .
There is little information , however , in patients with severe congestive heart failure , and all calcium channel blockers should be used with caution in any patient with heart failure .
Electrophysiologic Effects Nisoldipine has no clinically important chronotropic effects .
Except for mild shortening of sinus cycle , SA conduction time and AH intervals , single oral doses up to 20 mg of immediate release nisoldipine did not significantly change other conduction parameters .
Similar electrophysiologic effects were seen with single IV doses , which could be blunted in patients pre - treated with beta - blockers .
Dose and plasma level related flattening or inversion of T - waves have been observed in a few small studies .
Such reports were concentrated in patients receiving rapidly increased high doses in one study ; the phenomenon has not been a cause of safety concern in large clinical trials .
Clinical Studies in Hypertension The antihypertensive efficacy of nisoldipine extended - release tablets was studied in 5 double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies , in which over 600 patients were treated with nisoldipine extended - release tablets as monotherapy and about 300 with placebo ; 4 of the 5 studies compared 2 or 3 fixed doses while the fifth allowed titration from doses bioequivalent to 8 . 5 mg to 34 mg .
Once daily administration of nisoldipine extended - release tablets produced sustained reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressures over the 24 hour dosing interval in both supine and standing positions .
The mean placebo - subtracted reductions in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough , 24 hours post - dose , in these studies , are shown below .
Changes in standing blood pressure were similar : Mean Supine Trough Systolic and Diastolic Blood Pressure Changes ( mm Hg ) Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets Doses bioequivalent to : ( mg / day ) 8 . 5 mg 17 mg 25 . 5 mg 34 mg 8 . 5 mg to 34 mg titrated Systolic 8 11 11 14 15 Diastolic 3 5 7 7 8 In patients receiving atenolol , supine blood pressure reductions with nisoldipine extended - release tablets at doses bioequivalent to 17 mg and 34 mg once daily were 12 / 6 and 19 / 8 mm Hg , respectively .
The sustained antihypertensive effect of nisoldipine extended - release tablets was demonstrated by 24 hour blood pressure monitoring and examination of peak and trough effects .
The trough / peak ratios ranged from 70 % to 100 % for diastolic and systolic blood pressure .
The mean change in heart rate in these studies was less than one beat per minute .
In 4 of the 5 studies , patients received initial doses bioequivalent to 17 mg to 25 . 5 mg nisoldipine extended - release tablets without incident ( excessive effects on blood pressure or heart rate ) .
The fifth study started patients on lower doses of nisoldipine extended - release tablets .
Patient race and gender did not influence the blood pressure lowering effect of nisoldipine extended - release tablets .
Despite the higher plasma concentration of nisoldipine in the elderly , there was no consistent difference in their blood pressure response except that the lowest clinical dose was somewhat more effective than in non - elderly patients .
No postural effect on blood pressure was apparent and there was no evidence of tolerance to the antihypertensive effect of nisoldipine extended - release tablets in patients treated for up to one year .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers .
WARNINGS Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Rarely , patients , particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease , have developed increased frequency , duration and / or severity of angina , or acute myocardial infarction on starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect has not been established .
In controlled studies of nisoldipine extended - release tablets in patients with angina this was seen about 1 . 5 % of the time in patients given nisoldipine , compared with 0 . 9 % in patients given placebo .
PRECAUTIONS General Hypotension Because nisoldipine , like other vasodilators , decreases peripheral vascular resistance , careful monitoring of blood pressure during the initial administration and titration of nisoldipine extended - release tablets is recommended .
Close observation is especially important for patients already taking medications that are known to lower blood pressure .
Although in most patients the hypotensive effect of nisoldipine extended - release tablets is modest and well tolerated , occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension .
These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment .
Congestive Heart Failure Although acute hemodynamic studies of nisoldipine in patients with NYHA Class II to IV heart failure have not demonstrated negative inotropic effects , safety of nisoldipine extended - release tablets in patients with heart failure has not been established .
Caution therefore should be exercised when using nisoldipine extended - release tablets in patients with heart failure or compromised ventricular function , particularly in combination with a beta - blocker .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Because nisoldipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and , in patients with cirrhosis , it reaches blood concentrations about 5 times those in normals , nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be administered cautiously in patients with severe hepatic dysfunction ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients Nisoldipine is an extended release tablet and should be swallowed whole .
Tablets should not be chewed , divided or crushed .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be taken on an empty stomach ( 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ) .
Grapefruit juice , which has been shown to increase significantly the bioavailability of nisoldipine and other dihydropyridine type calcium channel blockers , should not be taken with nisoldipine extended - release tablets .
Laboratory Tests Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are not known to interfere with the interpretation of laboratory tests .
Drug Interactions A 30 % to 45 % increase in AUC and Cmax of nisoldipine was observed with concomitant administration of cimetidine 400 mg twice daily .
Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily did not interact significantly with nisoldipine ( AUC was decreased by 15 % to 20 % ) .
No pharmacodynamic effects of either histamine H2 receptor antagonist were observed .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Nisoldipine is substrate of CYP3A4 and coadministration of nisoldipine extended - release tablets with any known inducer or inhibitor of CYP3A4 should be avoided in general .
Coadministration of phenytoin with a dose bioequivalent to 34 mg nisoldipine extended - release tablets in epileptic patients lowered the nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels .
Coadministration of nisoldipine extended - release tablets with phenytoin should be avoided and alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered .
Pharmacokinetic interactions between nisoldipine and beta - blockers ( atenolol , propranolol ) were variable and not significant .
Propranolol attenuated the heart rate increase following administration of immediate release nisoldipine .
The blood pressure effect of nisoldipine extended - release tablets tended to be greater in patients on atenolol than in patients on no other antihypertensive therapy .
Quinidine at 648 mg bid decreased the bioavailability ( AUC ) of nisoldipine by 26 % , but not the peak concentration .
Immediate release nisoldipine increased plasma quinidine concentrations by about 20 % .
This interaction was not accompanied by ECG changes and its clinical significance is not known .
No significant interactions were found between nisoldipine and warfarin or digoxin .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary administration of nisoldipine to male and female rats for up to 24 months ( mean doses up to 82 mg / kg / day and 111 mg / kg / day , 16 and 19 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) and female mice for up to 21 months ( mean doses of up to 217 mg / kg / day , 20 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) revealed no evidence of tumorigenic effect of nisoldipine .
In male mice receiving a mean dose of 163 mg nisoldipine / kg / day ( 16 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) , an increased frequency of stomach papilloma , but still within the historical range , was observed .
No evidence of stomach neoplasia was observed at lower doses ( up to 58 mg / kg / day ) .
Nisoldipine was negative when tested in a battery of genotoxicity assays including the Ames test and the CHO / HGRPT assay for mutagenicity and the in vivo mouse micronucleus test and in vitro CHO cell test for clastogenicity .
When administered to male and female rats at doses of up to 30 mg / kg / day ( about 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) nisoldipine had no effect on fertility .
Pregnancy Category C Nisoldipine was neither teratogenic nor fetotoxic at doses that were not maternally toxic .
Nisoldipine was fetotoxic but not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses resulting in maternal toxicity ( reduced maternal body weight gain ) .
In pregnant rats , increased fetal resorption ( postimplantation loss ) was observed at 100 mg / kg / day and decreased fetal weight was observed at both 30 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day .
These doses are , respectively , about 5 and 16 times the MRHD when compared on a mg / m2 basis .
In pregnant rabbits , decreased fetal and placental weights were observed at a dose of 30 mg / kg / day , about 10 times the MRHD when compared on a mg / m2 basis .
In a study in which pregnant monkeys ( both treated and control ) had high rates of abortion and mortality , the only surviving fetus from a group exposed to a maternal dose of 100 mg nisoldipine / kg / day ( about 30 times the MRHD when compared on a mg / m2 basis ) presented with forelimb and vertebral abnormalities not previously seen in control monkeys of the same strain .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nisoldipine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing , or to discontinue nisoldipine extended - release tablets , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of nisoldipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Patients over 65 are expected to develop higher plasma concentrations of nisoldipine .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS More than 6000 patients world - wide have received nisoldipine in clinical trials for the treatment of hypertension , either as the immediate release or the nisoldipine extended - release formulation .
Of about 1500 patients who received nisoldipine extended - release tablets in hypertension studies , about 55 % were exposed for at least 2 months and about one - third were exposed for over 6 months , the great majority at doses equivalent to 17 mg and above .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are generally well - tolerated .
In the U . S . clinical trials of nisoldipine extended - release tablets in hypertension , 10 . 9 % of the 921 nisoldipine extended - release tablets patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events compared with 2 . 9 % of 280 placebo patients .
The frequency of discontinuations due to adverse experiences was related to dose , with a 5 . 4 % and 10 . 9 % discontinuation rate at the lowest and highest daily dose , respectively .
The most frequently occurring adverse experiences with nisoldipine extended - release tablets are those related to its vasodilator properties ; these are generally mild and only occasionally lead to patient withdrawal from treatment .
The table below , from U . S . placebo - controlled parallel dose response trials of nisoldipine extended - release tablets using doses across the clinical dosage range in patients with hypertension , lists all of the adverse events , regardless of the causal relationship to nisoldipine extended - release tablets , for which the overall incidence on nisoldipine extended - release tablets was both > 1 % and greater with nisoldipine extended - release tablets than with placebo .
Adverse Event Nisoldipine ( % ) ( n = 663 ) Placebo ( % ) ( n = 280 ) Peripheral Edema 22 10 Headache 22 15 Dizziness 5 4 Pharyngitis 5 4 Vasodilation 4 2 Sinusitis 3 2 Palpitation 3 1 Chest Pain 2 1 Nausea 2 1 Rash 2 1 Only peripheral edema and possibly dizziness appear to be dose related .
Adverse Event Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets , Dose Bioequivalent to : Placebo 8 . 5 mg 17 mg 25 . 5 mg 34 mg ( Rates in % ) n = 280 n = 30 n = 170 n = 105 n = 139 Peripheral Edema 10 7 15 20 27 Dizziness 4 7 3 3 4 The common adverse events occurred at about the same rate in men as in women , and at a similar rate in patients over age 65 as in those under that age , except that headache was much less common in older patients .
Except for peripheral edema and vasodilation , which were more common in whites , adverse event rates were similar in blacks and whites .
The following adverse events occurred in ≤ 1 % of all patients treated for hypertension in U . S . and foreign clinical trials , or with unspecified incidence in other studies .
Although a causal relationship of nisoldipine extended - release tablets to these events cannot be established , they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship with nisoldipine extended - release tablets treatment .
Body as a Whole : cellulitis , chills , facial edema , fever , flu syndrome , malaise Cardiovascular : atrial fibrillation , cerebrovascular accident , congestive heart failure , first degree AV block , hypertension , hypotension , jugular venous distension , migraine , myocardial infarction , postural hypotension , ventricular extrasystoles , supraventricular tachycardia , syncope , systolic ejection murmur , T wave abnormalities on ECG ( flattening , inversion , nonspecific changes ) , venous insufficiency Digestive : abnormal liver function tests , anorexia , colitis , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , dysphagia , flatulence , gastritis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gingival hyperplasia , glossitis , hepatomegaly , increased appetite , melena , mouth ulceration Endocrine : diabetes mellitus , thyroiditis Hemic and Lymphatic : anemia , ecchymoses , leukopenia , petechiae Metabolic and Nutritional : gout , hypokalemia , increased serum creatine kinase , increased nonprotein nitrogen , weight gain , weight loss Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , arthritis , leg cramps , myalgia , myasthenia , myositis , tenosynovitis Nervous : abnormal dreams , abnormal thinking and confusion , amnesia , anxiety , ataxia , cerebral ischemia , decreased libido , depression , hypesthesia , hypertonia , insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence , tremor , vertigo Respiratory : asthma , dyspnea , end inspiratory wheeze and fine rales , epistaxis , increased cough , laryngitis , pharyngitis , pleural effusion , rhinitis , sinusitis Skin and Appendages : acne , alopecia , dry skin , exfoliative dermatitis , fungal dermatitis , herpes simplex , herpes zoster , maculopapular rash , pruritus , pustular rash , skin discoloration , skin ulcer , sweating , urticaria Special Senses : abnormal vision , amblyopia , blepharitis , conjunctivitis , ear pain , glaucoma , itchy eyes , keratoconjunctivitis , otitis media , retinal detachment , tinnitus , watery eyes , taste disturbance , temporary unilateral loss of vision , vitreous floater Urogenital : dysuria , hematuria , impotence , nocturia , urinary frequency , increased BUN and serum creatinine , vaginal hemorrhage , vaginitis The following postmarketing event has been reported very rarely in patients receiving nisoldipine extended - release tablets : systemic hypersensitivity reaction , which may include one or more of the following ; angioedema , shortness of breath , tachycardia , chest tightness , hypotension , and rash .
A definite causal relationship with nisoldipine extended - release tablets has not been established .
An unusual event observed with immediate release nisoldipine but not observed with nisoldipine extended - release tablets was one case of photosensitivity .
Gynecomastia has been associated with the use of calcium channel blockers .
OVERDOSAGE There is no experience with nisoldipine overdosage .
Generally , overdosage with other dihydropyridines leading to pronounced hypotension calls for active cardiovascular support including monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory function , elevation of extremities , judicious use of calcium infusion , pressor agents and fluids .
Clearance of nisoldipine would be expected to be slowed in patients with impaired liver function .
Since nisoldipine is highly protein bound , dialysis is not likely to be of any benefit ; however , plasmapheresis may be beneficial .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of nisoldipine extended - release tablets must be adjusted to each patient ’ s needs .
Therapy usually should be initiated with 17 mg orally once daily , then increased by 8 . 5 mg per week or longer intervals , to attain adequate control of blood pressure .
Usual maintenance dosage is 17 mg to 34 mg once daily .
Blood pressure response increases over the 8 . 5 mg to 34 mg daily dose range but adverse event rates also increase .
Doses beyond 34 mg once daily are not recommended .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets have been used safely with diuretics , ACE inhibitors , and beta - blocking agents .
Patients over age 65 , or patients with impaired liver function , are expected to develop higher plasma concentrations of nisoldipine .
Their blood pressure should be monitored closely during any dosage adjustment .
A starting dose not exceeding 8 . 5 mg daily is recommended in these patient groups .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be administered orally once daily .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets should be taken on an empty stomach ( 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ) .
Grapefruit products should be avoided before and after dosing .
Nisoldipine extended - release tablets are an extended release dosage form and tablets should be swallowed whole , not bitten , divided or crushed .
HOW SUPPLIED Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets are available containing 8 . 5 mg , 17 mg , 25 . 5 mg or 34 mg of nisoldipine .
The 8 . 5 mg tablets are beige , film - coated , round , unscored tablets debossed with M on one side of the tablet and NE over 8 on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 2096 - 01 bottles of 100 tablets The 17 mg tablets are yellow , film - coated , round , unscored tablets debossed with M on one side of the tablet and NE over 17 on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 2097 - 01 bottles of 100 tablets The 25 . 5 mg tablets are light orange , film - coated , round , unscored tablets debossed with M on one side of the tablet and NE over 25 on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 2098 - 01 bottles of 100 tablets The 34 mg tablets are orange , film - coated , round , unscored tablets debossed with M on one side of the tablet and NE over 34 on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 2099 - 01 bottles of 100 tablets Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited Hyderabad — 500 096 , India Revised : 9 / 2020 MXI : NISOER : R1 75077325 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 . 5 mg NDC 0378 - 2096 - 01 Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets 8 . 5 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Each film - coated tablet contains : Nisoldipine 8 . 5 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light and moisture .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Made in India RMXI2096A Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Code No . : MP / DRUGS / 25 / 1 / 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 17 mg NDC 0378 - 2097 - 01 Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets 17 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Each film - coated tablet contains : Nisoldipine 17 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light and moisture .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Made in India RMXI2097A Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Code No . : MP / DRUGS / 25 / 1 / 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 25 . 5 mg NDC 0378 - 2098 - 01 Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets 25 . 5 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Each film - coated tablet contains : Nisoldipine 25 . 5 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light and moisture .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Made in India RMXI2098A Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Code No . : MP / DRUGS / 25 / 1 / 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 34 mg NDC 0378 - 2099 - 01 Nisoldipine Extended - Release Tablets 34 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Each film - coated tablet contains : Nisoldipine 34 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light and moisture .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Made in India RMXI2099A Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Code No . : MP / DRUGS / 25 / 1 / 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
