PRESCRIBING INFORMATION Available as 0 . 15 mg 0 . 3 mg each unit delivers 0 . 15 mg or 0 . 3 mg of epinephrine DESCRIPTION Epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ( referred to throughout as epinephrine auto - injector ) contains 1 . 1 mL epinephrine injection , USP ( 1 mg / mL ) , from which one dose of either 0 . 15 mg ( 0 . 15 mL ) or 0 . 3 mg ( 0 . 3 mL ) each is available for use by injection .
The dose is administered by auto - injection after the patient prepares and fires epinephrine auto - injector as directed .
The remaining volume is not available for use and should be discarded .
See PATIENT DIRECTIONS FOR USE on the accompanying Patient Information Leaflet .
This single , available dose of epinephrine injection , USP contains either 0 . 15 mg or 0 . 3 mg l - epinephrine , sodium chloride , chlorobutanol and sodium bisulfite , all sealed under nitrogen .
Epinephrine is a sympathomimetic catecholamine .
Its naturally occurring l - isomer , which is twenty times as active as the d - isomer , is obtained in pure form by separation from the synthetically produced racemate .
Chemically , epinephrine is 1 - ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) - 2 - ( methylamino ) ethanol with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epinephrine deteriorates rapidly on exposure to air or light , turning pink from oxidation to adrenochrome and brown from the formation of melanin .
Epinephrine solutions that show evidence of discoloration should be discarded .
Epinephrine auto - injector contains no latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Epinephrine is the drug of choice for the emergency treatment of severe allergic reactions ( Type I ) to allergens , such as those present in certain insect venoms , foods , or drugs .
It can also be used in the treatment of anaphylaxis of unknown cause ( idiopathic anaphylaxis ) or exercise - induced anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine , when given intramuscularly or subcutaneously , has a rapid onset and short duration of action .
Epinephrine acts on both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors .
Through its action on alpha adrenergic receptors , epinephrine lessens the vasodilation and increased vascular permeability that occurs during an anaphylactic reaction and can lead to loss of intravascular fluid volume and hypotension .
Through its action on beta adrenergic receptors , epinephrine causes bronchial smooth muscle relaxation that helps alleviate bronchospasm , wheezing , and dyspnea that may occur during anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine also helps alleviate pruritus , urticaria , and angioedema , and may be effective in relieving gastrointestinal and genitourinary symptoms of anaphylaxis because of its relaxer effects on the smooth muscle of the stomach , intestine , uterus and urinary bladder .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinephrine auto - injector is indicated in the emergency treatment of severe allergic reactions ( Type I ) including anaphylaxis to stinging insects ( e . g . order Hymenoptera , which includes bees , wasps , hornets , yellow jackets and fire ants ) , and biting insects ( e . g . triatoma , mosquitos ) , allergen immunotherapy , foods , drugs , diagnostic testing substances ( e . g . radiocontrast media ) , and other allergens , as well as anaphylaxis to unknown substances ( idiopathic anaphylaxis ) or exercise - induced anaphylaxis .
Epinephrine auto - injector is intended for immediate administration in patients with a history of anaphylactic reactions .
Selection of the appropriate dosage strength is determined according to patient body weight ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Such reactions may occur within minutes after exposure and consist of flushing , apprehension , syncope , tachycardia , thready or unobtainable pulse associated with a fall in blood pressure , convulsions , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps , involuntary voiding , wheezing , dyspnea due to laryngeal spasm , pruritus , rashes , urticaria , or angioedema .
Epinephrine auto - injector is designed as emergency supportive therapy only and is not a replacement or substitute for immediate medical care .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no absolute contraindications to the use of epinephrine in a life - threatening allergic reaction .
WARNINGS Epinephrine auto - injector should only be injected into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh .
Accidental injection into the hands or feet may result in loss of blood flow to the affected area and should be avoided .
DO NOT INJECT INTO BUTTOCK .
If there is an accidental injection into these areas , advise the patient to inform the healthcare provider of the accidental injection when he / she goes to the nearest emergency room for further treatment of anaphylaxis .
Avoid possible inadvertent intravascular administration .
Large doses or accidental intravenous injection of epinephrine may result in cerebral hemorrhage due to a sharp rise in blood pressure .
DO NOT INJECT INTRAVENOUSLY .
Rapidly acting vasodilators can counteract the marked pressor effects of epinephrine if there is such inadvertent administration .
Epinephrine is the preferred treatment for serious allergic reactions or other emergency situations even though this product contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may , in other products , cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms or life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible persons .
The alternatives to using epinephrine in a life - threatening situation may not be satisfactory .
The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations , even if the patient is sulfite - sensitive .
Epinephrine should be administered with caution to patients with cardiac arrhythmias , coronary artery or organic heart disease , or hypertension .
In patients with coronary insufficiency or ischemic heart disease , epinephrine may precipitate or aggravate angina pectoris as well as produce ventricular arrhythmias .
It should be recognized that the presence of these conditions is not a contraindication to epinephrine administration in an acute , life - threatening situation .
Epinephrine is light sensitive and should be stored in the carrying - case provided .
Store at room temperature ( 20 ° - 25 ° C / 68 ° - 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate ; protect from freezing .
Patients should periodically check the solution in epinephrine auto - injector for any discoloration and / or precipitates .
If the solution is discolored or contains a precipitate , the patient should replace their epinephrine auto - injector .
PRECAUTIONS ( 1 ) General Epinephrine auto - injector is not intended as a substitute for immediate medical care .
In conjunction with the administration of epinephrine , the patient should seek appropriate medical care .
More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision .
Epinephrine is essential for the treatment of anaphylaxis .
Patients with a history of severe allergic reactions should be instructed about the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE Section ) .
It should be determined that the patient is at risk of future anaphylaxis , since there are some concerns in specific patients with epinephrine administration .
( a ) Epinephrine should be used with caution in patients with cardiac arrhythmias , coronary artery or organic heart disease , hypertension , or in patients who are on medications that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias , e . g . , digitalis , diuretics , or anti - arrhythmics .
In such patients , epinephrine may precipitate or aggravate angina pectoris as well as produce ventricular arrhythmias .
( b ) The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
( c ) Some patients may be at greater risk of developing adverse reactions after epinephrine administration .
These include patients with hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , hypertension , diabetes , and elderly individuals , and pregnant women .
It must be noted that , despite these concerns , epinephrine is essential for the treatment of anaphylaxis .
Therefore , patients with these conditions , or any other person who might be in a position to administer epinephrine to a patient with these conditions experiencing anaphylaxis , should be instructed about the circumstances under which epinephrine should be used .
( 2 ) Information for Patients Complete patient information , including dosage , directions for proper administration , and precautions , can be found inside each epinephrine auto - injector package within the Patient Information Leaflet .
Epinephrine may produce symptoms and signs that include an increase in pulse rate , the sensation of a more forceful heartbeat , palpitations , a throbbing headache , pallor , feelings of overstimulation , anxiety , weakness , shakiness , dizziness , or nausea .
These signs and symptoms usually subside rapidly , especially with rest , quiet , and recumbency .
Patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism may develop more severe or persistent effects , and patients with coronary artery disease could experience angina .
Patients with diabetes may develop increased blood glucose levels following epinephrine administration .
Patients with Parkinson ' s disease may notice a temporary worsening of symptoms .
( 3 ) Drug Interactions Patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking cardiac glycosides or diuretics should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias .
The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , sodium levothyroxine , and certain antihistamines , notably chlorpheniramine , tripelennamine , and diphenhydramine .
The cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine are antagonized by beta - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as propranolol .
The vasoconstricting and hypertensive efffects are antagonized by alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs , such as phentolamine .
Ergot alkaloids and phenothiazines may also reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine .
( 4 ) Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no data from either animal or human studies regarding the carcinogenicity or mutagenicity of epinephrine , and no studies have been conducted to determine its potential for the impairment of fertility .
This should not prevent the use of epinephrine under the conditions noted under INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
( 5 ) Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Epinephrine has been shown to have developmental effects in rabbits at a subcutaneous dose of 1 . 2 mg / kg ( approximately 30 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose on a mg / m2 basis ) , in mice at a subcutaneous dose of 1 mg / kg ( approximately 7 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose on a mg / m2 basis ) , and in hamsters at a subcutaneous dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 5 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
These effects were not seen in mice at a subcutaneous dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 3 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous or intramuscular dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Although there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women , epinephrine crosses the placenta and could lead to fetal anoxia , spontaneous abortion or both .
Therefore , epinephrine should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to epinephrine include transient , moderate anxiety ; apprehensiveness ; restlessness ; tremor ; weakness ; dizziness ; sweating ; palpitations ; pallor ; nausea and vomiting ; headache , and / or respiratory difficulties .
These symptoms occur in some persons receiving therapeutic doses of epinephrine , but are more likely to occur in patients with hypertension or hyperthyroidism .
Large doses of epinephrine can cause acute hypertension .
Arrhythmias , including fatal ventricular fibrillation , have been reported , particularly in patients with underlying cardiac disease or those receiving certain drugs [ see ( 3 ) Drug Interactions ] .
Rapid rises in blood pressure have produced cerebral hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients with cardiovascular disease .
Angina may occur in patients with coronary artery disease .
The potential for epinephrine to produce these types of adverse reactions does not contraindicate its use in an acute , life - threatening allergic reaction .
OVERDOSAGE Epinephrine is rapidly inactivated in the body , and treatment following overdose with epinephrine is primarily supportive .
If necessary , pressor effects may be counteracted by rapidly acting vasodilators or alpha - adrenergic blocking drugs .
If prolonged hypotension follows such measures , it may be necessary to administer another pressor drug .
Overdosage of epinephrine may produce extremely elevated arterial pressure , which may result in cerebrovascular hemorrhage , particularly in elderly patients .
If an epinephrine overdose induces pulmonary edema that interferes with respiration , treatment consists of a rapidly acting alpha - adrenergic blocking drug and / or respiratory support .
Epinephrine overdosage can also cause transient bradycardia followed by tachycardia , and these may be accompanied by potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias .
Premature ventricular contractions may appear within one minute after injection and may be followed by multifocal ventricular tachycardia ( prefibrillation rhythm ) .
Subsidence of the ventricular effects may be followed by atrial tachycardia and occasionally by atrioventricular block .
Treatment of arrhythmias consists of administration of a beta - adrenergic blocking drug such as propranolol .
Overdosage sometimes results in extreme pallor and coldness of the skin , metabolic acidosis , and kidney failure .
Suitable corrective measures must be taken in such situations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The physician who prescribes epinephrine auto - injector should review this Prescribing Information insert in detail with the patient .
This review should include the proper use of epinephrine auto - injector to ensure that subcutaneous or intramuscular injections are given into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh , through clothing if necessary .
The accompanying Patient Information Leaflet and Wrap Label should also be reviewed with the patient .
Epinephrine auto - injector is capable of delivering one dose of either 0 . 15 mg or 0 . 3 mg ( 0 . 15 mL or 0 . 3 mL of epinephrine ) .
This dose is available for auto - injection by the patient .
Selection of the appropriate epinephrine auto - injector dosage strength is determined according to patient body weight .
Epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 15 mg For use by patients who weigh 15 - 30 kilograms ( approximately 33 - 66 pounds ) Epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 3 mg For use by patients who weigh 30 kilograms ( approximately 66 pounds ) or greater The usual dose of epinephrine for allergic emergencies in patients who weigh 30 kilograms or greater is 0 . 3 mg ( 0 . 3 mL of epinephrine ) .
Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from epinephrine auto - injector are fixed , the physician should consider other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than those available from epinephrine auto - injector are felt to be necessary .
The prescribing physician should carefully assess each patient to determine the most appropriate dose of epinephrine , recognizing the life - threatening nature of the reactions for which this drug is being prescribed .
Patients should be instructed to periodically visually inspect the epinephrine solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
If the solution contains particulate matter or develops a pinkish color or becomes darker than slightly yellow , the patient should immediately contact their physician for a replacement , since these changes indicate that the effectiveness of the drug product may be decreased .
HOW SUPPLIED Epinephrine auto - injector is a patient ( or caregiver ) actuated product that contains 1 . 1 mL of epinephrine injection , USP ( 1 mg / mL ) , of which one dose can be delivered by auto - injection .
THE REMAINING VOLUME THAT IS LEFT AFTER THIS FIXED DOSE CANNOT BE FURTHER ADMINISTERED AND SHOULD BE DISCARDED WITH THE DEVICE AS OUTLINED IN THE PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET .
Epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 3 mg is available in a Single unit carton , NDC 54868 - 6239 - 1 , containing one epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 3 mg ; Two - Pack carton , NDC 54868 - 6239 - 0 , containing two epinephrine auto - injectors 0 . 3 mg .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) WITH EXCURSIONS PERMITTED TO 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
DO NOT REFRIGERATE .
Rx only .
GREENSTONE ® BRAND Distributed by : Greenstone LLC Peapack , NJ 07977 Printed in USA For inquiries call 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 Revised January , 2010 Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient Information epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector Authorized generic of Adrenaclick The patient , and caregiver , if possible , should read this information carefully before using epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector ( referred to throughout as epinephrine auto - injector ) .
You must know how to use epinephrine auto - injector before you have an emergency .
This information contains additional details beyond the quick - reference instructions on the epinephrine auto - injector label .
This information does not replace talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about epinephrine auto - injector ?
Use epinephrine auto - injector and go to your doctor or emergency room right away for more medical treatment .
• Epinephrine , the active ingredient in epinephrine auto - injector helps treat life - threatening allergic reactions .
• Make sure to tell your doctor about all your medical conditions and allergies .
• Always get medical treatment right away after using epinephrine auto - injector .
Since you cannot predict when a life - threatening allergic reaction will occur , carry epinephrine auto - injector with you at all times .
Look at the medicine in your epinephrine auto - injector regularly .
If it looks cloudy ( has particles in it ) , is discolored , or if the expiration date has passed , the epinephrine auto - injector should be replaced .
After administration , liquid will remain in the auto - injector that ca n't be used and should be discarded with the auto - injector as outlined in this Patient Information Leaflet .
What is epinephrine auto - injector ?
Epinephrine auto - injector is an emergency injection ( " shot " ) of epinephrine .
It is a medicine used for life - threatening allergic reactions such as severe swelling , breathing problems , or loss of blood pressure .
Allergic reactions can be caused by stinging and biting insects ( bugs ) , allergy injections , food , medicines , exercise , or unknown causes .
Life - threatening allergic reactions may show up as closing of your breathing airways , wheezing , sneezing , hoarseness , hives , itching , swelling , skin redness , fast heartbeat , weak pulse , feeling very anxious , confusion , stomach pain , losing control of urine or bowel movements ( incontinence ) , faintness , or " passing out " ( unconsciousness ) .
• Epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 15 mg is for patients who weigh 33 - 66 pounds ( 15 - 30 kg ) .
• Epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 3 mg is for patients who weigh 66 pounds ( 30 kg ) or greater .
• Use of epinephrine auto - injector must be followed by emergency medical care .
• Each epinephrine auto - injector unit contains a single dose of epinephrine .
Who should not use epinephrine auto - injector ?
There are no absolute contraindications to the use of epinephrine auto - injector in a life - threatening allergic reaction .
People with certain medical conditions have a higher chance of getting serious side effects from epinephrine auto - injector .
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , but especially if you : • have heart disease or high blood pressure • have diabetes • have thyroid conditions • have asthma • have depression or other mental disease • have Parkinson ' s disease • are pregnant • are allergic to any of the ingredients in epinephrine auto - injector Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some medicines may cause serious side effects if taken while you use epinephrine auto - injector .
Some medicines may affect how epinephrine auto - injector works , or epinephrine auto - injector may affect how your other medicines work .
Diabetic patients may need to adjust the dose of their diabetes medicines or insulin after using epinephrine auto - injector .
How should I use epinephrine auto - injector ?
• Do NOT remove the gray caps until you are ready to use .
• Never put thumb , fingers , or hand over the red tip .
The needle comes out of the red tip .
Accidental injection into hand or feet may result in the loss of blood flow to these areas .
If this happens , go immediately to the nearest emergency room .
• Hold epinephrine auto - injector in the thigh while slowly counting to 10 to make sure all medicine is delivered .
• Inject epinephrine auto - injector only into the middle of the outer side of your thigh ( upper leg ) .
What should I avoid while using epinephrine auto - injector ?
• Avoid injecting epinephrine auto - injector into your buttock or any other part of your body , other than the middle of the outer side of your thigh ( upper leg ) .
• Avoid injecting epinephrine auto - injector into a vein .
What are the possible side effects of epinephrine auto - injector ?
Too much epinephrine ( epinephrine auto - injector ) can cause dangerously high blood pressure , stroke , or death .
If you take certain medicines , you may develop serious life - threatening side effects from the epinephrine in epinephrine auto - injector .
Be sure to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , especially medicines for asthma .
Patients with certain medical conditions , or who take certain medicines , may get more side effects from epinephrine auto - injector , or the side effects may last longer .
This includes patients who take certain types of medicines for asthma , allergies , depression , hyperthyroidism , high blood pressure , and heart disease .
Patients with heart disease may feel chest pain ( angina ) .
Patients with mental disease or Parkinson ' s disease may have worsening symptoms of their illness .
Epinephrine auto - injector ( epinephrine ) can cause the following reactions .
Some reactions can be serious .
They usually go away with rest .
Common side effects of epinephrine auto - injector include : • faster , irregular ( wrong ) or ' pounding ' heartbeat • throbbing headache • paleness • feelings of over excitement , anxiety , or fear • weakness or shakiness • dizziness • nausea and vomiting • sweating These are not all the possible side effects of epinephrine auto - injector .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How should I store epinephrine auto - injector ?
The medicine in epinephrine auto - injector can be damaged by light .
Therefore , keep it in the protective carrying case provided .
Keep it at room temperature and protect it from freezing .
Do not refrigerate .
Keep epinephrine auto - injector with you at all times .
Check your epinephrine auto - injector regularly to be sure : • it has not expired • the medicine in epinephrine auto - injector is not cloudy , discolored , or has particles in it .
Replace the epinephrine auto - injector if needed .
General information about the safe and effective use of epinephrine auto - injector .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use epinephrine auto - injector for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give epinephrine auto - injector to other people , even if they have the same symptons you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about epinephrine auto - injector .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about epinephrine auto - injector that is written for health professionals .
Rx only GREENSTONE ® BRAND Distributed by : Greenstone LLC Peapack , NJ 07977 Printed in U . S . A . 71007 - 01 Patient Directions for Use Before Use Make Sure Medicine Is Ready When You Need It Look at the medicine in the epinephrine auto = injector regularly .
If it looks cloudy , is discolored , has particles in it , or if the expiration date has passed , the epinephrine auto - injector should be replaced .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following instructions should be followed for both epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 15 mg and epinephrine auto - injector 0 . 3 mg .
STEP A • Pull off GRAY end cap with the [ 1 ] ; you will now see a RED tip .
Never put thumb , finger , or hand over the RED tip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Pull off GRAY end cap with [ 2 ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP B • Put the RED tip against the middle of the outer side of your thigh ( upper leg ) as shown .
It can go through clothes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Press down hard until the needle enters your thigh ( upper leg ) through your skin .
Hold it in place while slowly counting to 10 .
• Remove the epinephrine auto - injector from your thigh .
• Check the RED tip .
If the needle is exposed you received the dose .
If needle is not visible , repeat Step B . Get emergency medical help right away .
Call 911 AFTER USE / DISPOSAL • The remaining liquid that is left after this fixed dose cannot be further administered and should be discarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Put the auto - injector , needle first , into the carrying case .
• Put the light gray case top over the non - needle end of the epinephrine auto - injector unit and close the case .
• Give your used epinephrine auto - injector to a healthcare worker for proper disposal .
Do NOT throw away in a regular trash can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 54868 - 6239 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains One 0 . 3 mg Auto - Injector GREENSTONE ® BRAND epinephrine injection , USP auto - injector 0 . 3 mg For Subcutaneous or Intramuscular Use Only For Allergic Emergencies ( Anaphylaxis ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
