* Compared to the active ingredient in Extra Strength Tylenol ® Drug Facts ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( in each tablet ) Acetaminophen 500 mg PURPOSES Pain Reliever / Fever Reducer USES For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to : • Headache • Muscular aches • Backache • Minor pain of arthritis • The common cold • Toothache • Premenstrual and menstrual cramps Temporarily reduces fever .
WARNINGS Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 8 caplets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • Fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • New symptoms occur • Redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In the case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
DIRECTIONS Do not take more than directed .
Adults and children 12 years and over : • Take 2 caplets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last • Do not take more than 8 caplets in 24 hours • Do not take for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor Children under 12 years : • Do not use adult Extra Strength product in children under 12 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) of acetaminophen and may cause liver damage .
OTHER INFORMATION • Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • Use by expiration date on package INACTIVE INGREDEINTS Povidone , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Stearic Acid Questions ?
To report a Serious Adverse Event contact 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNeil Consumer Products Co . , owners of the registered trademark Tylenol ® .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals 104 Hippocrates Way , Glasgow , KY 42141 Rev . 11 / 2009 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Acetaminophen Caplets Extra Strength 500 mg NDC 54868 - 3832 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Keep out of reach of children .
