WARNING TICE ® BCG contains live , attenuated mycobacteria .
Because of the potential risk for transmission , prepare , handle , and dispose of TICE ® BCG as a biohazard material ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections ) .
BCG infections have been reported in health care workers , primarily from exposures resulting from accidental needle sticks or skin lacerations during the preparation of BCG for administration .
Nosocomial infections have been reported in patients receiving parenteral drugs that were prepared in areas in which BCG was reconstituted .
BCG is capable of dissemination when administered by the intravesical route , and serious infections , including fatal infections , have been reported in patients receiving intravesical BCG ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
DESCRIPTION TICE ® BCG for intravesical use , is an attenuated , live culture preparation of the Bacillus of Calmette and Guerin ( BCG ) strain of Mycobacterium bovis . 1 The TICE strain was developed at the University of Illinois from a strain originated at the Pasteur Institute .
The medium in which the BCG organism is grown for preparation of the freeze - dried cake is composed of the following ingredients : glycerin , asparagine , citric acid , potassium phosphate , magnesium sulfate , and iron ammonium citrate .
The final preparation prior to freeze drying also contains lactose .
The freeze - dried BCG preparation is delivered in glass vials , each containing 1 to 8 × 108 colony forming units ( CFU ) of TICE BCG which is equivalent to approximately 50 mg wet weight .
Determination of in vitro potency is achieved through colony counts derived from a serial dilution assay .
A single dose consists of 1 reconstituted vial ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
For intravesical use the entire vial is reconstituted with sterile saline .
TICE BCG is viable upon reconstitution .
No preservatives have been added .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY TICE ® BCG induces a granulomatous reaction at the local site of administration .
Intravesical TICE BCG has been used as a therapy for , and prophylaxis against , recurrent tumors in patients with carcinoma in situ ( CIS ) of the urinary bladder , and to prevent recurrence of Stage TaT1 papillary tumors of the bladder at high risk of recurrence .
The precise mechanism of action is unknown .
CLINICAL STUDIES Carcinoma in situ ( Bladder Cancer ) To evaluate the efficacy of intravesical administration of TICE ® BCG in the treatment of carcinoma in situ , patients were identified who had been treated with TICE BCG under 6 different Investigational New Drug ( IND ) applications in which the most important shared aspect was the use of an induction plus maintenance schedule .
Patients received TICE BCG ( 50 mg ; 1 to 8 x 108 CFU ) intravesically , once weekly for at least 6 weeks and once monthly thereafter for up to 12 months .
A longer maintenance was given in some cases .
The study population consisted of 153 patients , 132 males , 19 females , and 2 unidentified as to gender .
Thirty patients lacking baseline documentation of CIS and 4 patients lost to follow - up were not evaluable for treatment response .
Therefore , 119 patients were available for efficacy evaluation .
The mean age was 69 years ( range : 38 – 97 years ) .
There were 2 categories of clinical response : ( 1 ) Complete Histological Response ( CR ) , defined as complete resolution of carcinoma in situ documented by cystoscopy and cytology , with or without biopsy ; and ( 2 ) Complete Clinical Response Without Cytology ( CRNC ) , defined as an apparent complete disappearance of tumor upon cystoscopy .
The results of a 1987 analysis of the evaluable patients are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : The Response of Patients With CIS Bladder Cancer in 6 IND Studies Entered Evaluable CR CRNC Overall response No .
( % ) of patients 153 119 ( 78 % ) 54 ( 46 % ) 36 ( 30 % ) 90 ( 76 % ) A 1989 update of these data is presented in Table 2 .
The median duration of follow - up was 47 months .
Table 2 : Follow - up Response of Patients With CIS Bladder Cancer in 6 IND Studies1989 Status of 90 Responders ( CR or CRNC ) Response 1987 / CR n = 54 1987 / CRNC n = 36 1987 Response n = 90 Percent CR 30 15 45 50 CRNC 0 0 0 0 Unrelated deaths 6 6 12 13 Failure 18 15 33 37 There was no significant difference in response rates between patients with or without prior intravesical chemotherapy .
The median duration of response , calculated from the Kaplan - Meier curve as median time to recurrence , is estimated at 4 years or greater .
The incidence of cystectomy for 90 patients who achieved a complete response ( CR or CRNC ) was 11 % .
The median time to cystectomy in patients who achieved a complete response ( CR or CRNC ) exceeded 74 months .
TaT1 Bladder Cancer The efficacy of intravesical TICE BCG in preventing the recurrence of a TaT1 bladder cancer after complete transurethral resection of all papillary tumors was evaluated in 2 open - label , randomized phase III clinical trials .
Initial diagnosis of patients included in the studies was determined by cystoscopic biopsies .
One was conducted by the Southwestern Oncology Group ( SWOG ) in patients at high risk of recurrence .
High risk was defined as 2 occurrences of tumor within 56 weeks , any stage T1 tumor , or 3 or more tumors presenting simultaneously .
The second study was conducted at the Nijmegen University Hospital ; Nijmegen , The Netherlands .
In this study patients were not selected for high risk of recurrence .
In both studies treatment was initiated between 1 and 2 weeks after transurethral resection ( TUR ) .
SWOG Trial ( study 8795 ) In the SWOG trial ( study 8795 ) patients were randomized to TICE BCG or mitomycin C ( MMC ) .
Both drugs were given intravesically weekly for 6 weeks , at 8 and 12 weeks , and then monthly for a total treatment duration of 1 year .
Cystoscopy and urinary cytology were performed every 3 months for 2 years .
Patients with progressive disease or residual or recurrent disease at or after the 6 month follow - up were removed from the study and were classified as treatment failures .
A total of 469 patients was entered into the study : 237 to the TICE BCG arm and 232 to the MMC arm .
Twenty - two patients were subsequently found to be ineligible , and 66 patients had concurrent CIS , and were analyzed separately .
Four patients were lost to follow - up , leaving 191 evaluable patients in the TICE BCG arm and 186 in the MMC arm .
Of the patients , 84 % were male and 16 % were female .
The average age of these patients was 65 years old .
The Kaplan - Meier estimates of 2 - year disease - free survival are shown in Table 3 .
The difference in disease - free survival time between the 2 groups was statistically significant by the log rank test ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
The 95 % confidence interval of the difference in 2 - year disease - free survival was 12 % ± 10 % .
No statistically significant differences between the groups were noted in time to tumor progression , tumor invasion , or overall survival .
Table 3 : Results of SWOG Study 8795 TICE BCG Arm N = 191 MMC Arm N = 186 Estimated disease - free survival at 2 years 57 % 45 % 95 % Confidence Interval ( CI ) ( 50 % , 65 % ) ( 38 % , 53 % ) Nijmegen Study In the Nijmegen study , the efficacy of 3 treatments was compared : TICE substrain BCG , Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieuhygiene substrain BCG ( BCG - RIVM ) , and MMC .
TICE BCG and BCG - RIVM were given intravesically weekly for 6 weeks .
In contrast to the SWOG study , maintenance BCG was not given .
Mitomycin C was given intravesically weekly for 4 weeks and then monthly for a total duration of treatment of 6 months .
Cystoscopy and urinary cytology were performed every 3 months until recurrence .
A total of 469 patients was enrolled and randomized .
Thirty - two patients were not evaluable , 17 were ineligible , 15 were withdrawn before treatment , and 50 had concurrent CIS and were analyzed separately , leaving 387 evaluable patients : 117 in the TICE BCG arm , 134 in the BCG - RIVM arm , and 136 in the MMC arm .
Twenty - eight patients ( 24 % ) in the TICE BCG arm , 32 patients ( 24 % ) in the BCG - RIVM arm , and 24 patients ( 18 % ) in the MMC arm had TaG1 tumors .
The median duration of follow - up was 22 months ( range : 3 – 54 months ) .
The Kaplan - Meier estimates of 2 - year disease - free survival are shown in Table 4 .
The differences in disease - free survival among the 3 arms were not statistically significant by the log - rank test ( P = 0 . 08 ) .
Table 4 : Results of Nijmegen Study TICE BCG Arm N = 117 BCG - RIVM Arm N = 134 MMC Arm N = 136 Estimated disease - free survival at 2 years 53 % 62 % 64 % 95 % Confidence Interval ( CI ) ( 44 % , 64 % ) ( 53 % , 72 % ) ( 55 % , 74 % ) In both the SWOG 8795 study and the Nijmegen study , acute toxicity was more common , and usually more severe , with TICE BCG than with MMC ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TICE ® BCG is indicated for : • the treatment and prophylaxis of carcinoma in situ ( CIS ) of the urinary bladder • the prophylaxis of primary or recurrent stage Ta and / or T1 papillary tumors following transurethral resection ( TUR ) Limitations of Use : • TICE BCG is not recommended for stage TaG1 papillary tumors , unless they are judged to be at high risk of tumor recurrence .
• TICE BCG is not indicated for papillary tumors of stages higher than T1 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Immunosuppressed Patients TICE ® BCG should not be used in immunosuppressed patients with congenital or acquired immune deficiencies , whether due to concurrent disease ( e . g . , AIDS , leukemia , lymphoma ) cancer therapy ( e . g . , cytotoxic drugs , radiation ) , or immunosuppressive therapy ( e . g . , corticosteroids ) .
Patients with Increased Risk of BCG Infection Treatment should be postponed until resolution of a concurrent febrile illness , urinary tract infection , or gross hematuria .
Seven to 14 days should elapse before BCG is administered following biopsy , TUR , or traumatic catheterization .
Active Tuberculosis TICE BCG should not be administered to persons with active tuberculosis .
Active tuberculosis should be ruled out in individuals who are PPD positive before starting treatment with TICE BCG .
WARNINGS BCG LIVE ( TICE ® BCG ) is not a vaccine for the prevention of cancer .
BCG Vaccine , not BCG LIVE ( TICE BCG ) , should be used for the prevention of tuberculosis .
For vaccination use , refer to BCG Vaccine prescribing information .
Handling Precautions TICE BCG is an infectious agent .
Physicians using this product should be familiar with the literature on the prevention and treatment of BCG - related complications , and should be prepared in such emergencies to contact an infectious disease specialist with experience in treating the infectious complications of intravesical BCG .
The treatment of the infectious complications of BCG requires long - term , multiple - drug antibiotic therapy .
Special culture media are required for mycobacteria , and physicians administering intravesical BCG or those caring for these patients should have these media readily available .
BCG Infection Instillation of TICE BCG with an actively bleeding mucosa may promote systemic BCG infection .
Treatment should be postponed for at least 1 week following transurethral resection , biopsy , traumatic catheterization , or gross hematuria .
Systemic BCG Reaction Deaths have been reported as a result of systemic BCG infection and sepsis . 2 , 3 Patients should be monitored for the presence of symptoms and signs of toxicity after each intravesical treatment .
Febrile episodes with flu - like symptoms lasting more than 72 hours , fever ≥ 103 ° F , systemic manifestations increasing in intensity with repeated instillations , or persistent abnormalities of liver function tests suggest systemic BCG infection and may require antituberculous therapy .
Local symptoms ( prostatitis , epididymitis , orchitis ) lasting more than 2 to 3 days may also suggest active infection ( see WARNINGS , Management of Serious BCG Complications section ) .
Laboratory Tests The use of TICE BCG may cause tuberculin sensitivity .
Since this is a valuable aid in the diagnosis of tuberculosis , it is advisable to determine the tuberculin reactivity by PPD skin testing before treatment .
Antimicrobial Therapy Intravesical instillations of BCG should be postponed during treatment with antibiotics , since antimicrobial therapy may interfere with the effectiveness of TICE BCG ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
TICE BCG should not be used in individuals with concurrent infections .
Bladder Capacity Small bladder capacity has been associated with increased risk of severe local reactions and should be considered in deciding to use TICE BCG therapy .
Management of Serious BCG Complications Acute , localized irritative toxicities of TICE BCG may be accompanied by systemic manifestations , consistent with a " flu - like " syndrome .
Systemic adverse effects of 1 to 2 days ' duration such as malaise , fever , and chills often reflect hypersensitivity reactions .
However , symptoms such as fever of ≥ 38 . 5 ° C ( 101 . 3 ° F ) , or acute localized inflammation such as epididymitis , prostatitis , or orchitis persisting longer than 2 to 3 days suggest active infection , and evaluation for serious infectious complication should be considered .
In patients who develop persistent fever or experience an acute febrile illness consistent with BCG infection , 2 or more antimycobacterial agents should be administered while diagnostic evaluation , including cultures , is conducted .
BCG treatment should be discontinued .
Negative cultures do not necessarily rule out infection .
Physicians using this product should be familiar with the literature on prevention , diagnosis , and treatment of BCG - related complications and , when appropriate , should consult an infectious disease specialist or other physician with experience in the diagnosis and treatment of mycobacterial infections .
TICE BCG is sensitive to the most commonly used antituberculous agents ( isoniazid , rifampin , and ethambutol ) .
TICE BCG is not sensitive to pyrazinamide .
PRECAUTIONS General TICE ® BCG contains live mycobacteria and should be prepared and handled using aseptic technique ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Preparation of Agent section ) .
BCG infections have been reported in health care workers preparing BCG for administration .
Needle stick injuries should be avoided during the handling and mixing of TICE BCG .
Nosocomial infections have been reported in patients receiving parenteral drugs which were prepared in areas in which BCG was prepared . 4 BCG is capable of dissemination when administered by intravesical route , and serious reactions , including fatal infections , have been reported in patients receiving intravesical BCG . 3 Care should be taken not to traumatize the urinary tract or to introduce contaminants into the urinary system .
Seven to 14 days should elapse before TICE BCG is administered following TUR , biopsy , or traumatic catheterization .
TICE BCG should be administered with caution to persons in groups at high risk for HIV infection .
Laboratory Tests The use of TICE BCG may cause tuberculin sensitivity .
It is advisable to determine the tuberculin reactivity of patients receiving TICE BCG by PPD skin testing before treatment is initiated .
Information for Patients TICE BCG is retained in the bladder for 2 hours and then voided .
Patients should void while seated in order to avoid splashing of urine .
For the 6 hours after treatment , urine voided should be disinfected for 15 minutes with an equal volume of household bleach before flushing .
Patients should be instructed to increase fluid intake in order to " flush " the bladder in the hours following BCG treatment .
Patients may experience burning with the first void after treatment .
Patients should be attentive to side effects , such as fever , chills , malaise , flu - like symptoms , or increased fatigue .
If the patient experiences severe urinary side effects , such as burning or pain on urination , urgency , frequency of urination , blood in urine , or other symptoms such as joint pain , cough , or skin rash , the physician should be notified .
Drug Interaction Drug combinations containing immunosuppressants and / or bone marrow depressants and / or radiation interfere with the development of the immune response and should not be used in combination with TICE BCG .
Antimicrobial therapy for other infections may interfere with the effectiveness of TICE BCG .
There are no data to suggest that the acute , local urinary tract toxicity common with BCG is due to mycobacterial infection , and antituberculosis drugs ( e . g . , isoniazid ) should not be used to prevent or treat the local , irritative toxicities of TICE BCG .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility TICE BCG has not been evaluated for its carcinogenic , mutagenic potentials , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with TICE BCG .
It is also not known whether TICE BCG can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
TICE BCG should not be given to a pregnant woman except when clearly needed .
Women should be advised not to become pregnant while on therapy .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether TICE BCG is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from TICE BCG in nursing infants , it is advisable to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of TICE BCG for the treatment of superficial bladder cancer in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of TICE BCG , the average age was 66 years old .
No overall difference in safety or effectiveness was observed between older and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals to BCG cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms of bladder irritability , related to the inflammatory response induced , are reported in approximately 60 % of patients receiving TICE ® BCG .
The symptoms typically begin 4 to 6 hours after instillation and last 24 to 72 hours .
The irritative side effects are usually seen following the third instillation , and tend to increase in severity after each administration .
The irritative bladder adverse effects can usually be managed symptomatically with products such as pyridium , propantheline bromide , oxybutynin chloride , and acetaminophen .
The mechanism of action of the irritative side effects has not been firmly established , but is most consistent with an immunological mechanism . 3 There is no evidence that dose reduction or antituberculous drug therapy can prevent or lessen the irritative toxicity of TICE BCG .
" Flu - like " symptoms ( malaise , fever , and chills ) which may accompany the localized , irritative toxicities often reflect hypersensitivity reactions which can be treated symptomatically .
Antihistamines have also been used . 5 Adverse reactions to TICE BCG tend to be progressive in frequency and severity with subsequent instillation .
Delay or postponement of subsequent treatment may or may not reduce the severity of a reaction during subsequent instillation .
Although uncommon , serious infectious complications of intravesical BCG have been reported . 2 , 3 , 6 The most serious infectious complication of BCG is disseminated sepsis with associated mortality .
In addition , M . bovis infections have been reported in lung , liver , bone , bone marrow , kidney , regional lymph nodes , and prostate in patients who have received intravesical BCG .
Systemic infections may be manifested by pneumonitis , hepatitis , cytopenia , vasculitis , infective aneurysm and / or sepsis after a period of fever and malaise during which symptoms progressively increase .
Some male genitourinary tract infections ( orchitis / epididymitis ) have been resistant to multiple - drug antituberculous therapy and required orchiectomy .
If a patient develops persistent fever or experiences an acute febrile illness consistent with BCG infection , BCG treatment should be discontinued and the patient immediately evaluated and treated for systemic infection ( see WARNINGS ) .
The local and systemic adverse reactions reported in a review of 674 patients with superficial bladder cancer , including 153 patients with carcinoma in situ , are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Summary of Adverse Effects Seen in 674 Patients With Superficial Bladder Cancer , Including 153 With Carcinoma in SituPercent of patients Percent of patients Adverse event N Overall ( Grade ≥ 3 ) Adverse event N Overall ( Grade ≥ 3 ) Dysuria 401 60 % ( 11 % ) Arthritis / myalgia 18 3 % ( < 1 % ) Urinary frequency 272 40 % ( 7 % ) Headache / dizziness 16 2 % ( 0 ) Flu - like syndrome 224 33 % ( 9 % ) Urinary incontinence 16 2 % ( 0 ) Hematuria 175 26 % ( 7 % ) Anorexia / weight loss 15 2 % ( < 1 % ) Fever 134 20 % ( 8 % ) Urinary debris 15 2 % ( < 1 % ) Malaise / fatigue 50 7 % ( 0 ) Allergy 14 2 % ( < 1 % ) Cystitis 40 6 % ( 2 % ) Cardiac ( unclassified ) 13 2 % ( 1 % ) Urgency 39 6 % ( 1 % ) Genital inflammation / Nocturia 30 5 % ( 1 % ) abscess 12 2 % ( < 1 % ) Cramps / pain 27 4 % ( 1 % ) Respiratory ( unclassified ) 11 2 % ( < 1 % ) Rigors 22 3 % ( 1 % ) Urinary tract infection 10 2 % ( 1 % ) Nausea / vomiting 20 3 % ( < 1 % ) Abdominal pain 10 2 % ( 1 % ) The following adverse events were reported in ≤ 1 % of patients : anemia , BCG sepsis , coagulopathy , contracted bladder , diarrhea , epididymitis / prostatitis , hepatic granuloma , hepatitis , leukopenia , neurologic ( unclassified ) , orchitis , pneumonitis , pyuria , rash , thrombocytopenia , urethritis , and urinary obstruction .
In SWOG study 8795 , toxicity evaluations were available on a total of 222 TICE BCG - treated patients and 220 MMC - treated patients .
Direct bladder toxicity ( cramps , dysuria , frequency , urgency , hematuria , hemorrhagic cystitis , or incontinence ) was seen more often with TICE BCG with 356 events , compared to 234 events for MMC .
Grade ≤ 2 toxicity was seen significantly more frequently following TICE BCG treatment ( P = 0 . 003 ) .
No life - threatening toxicity was seen in either arm .
Systemic toxicity with TICE BCG was markedly increased compared to that of MMC , with 181 events for TICE BCG compared to 80 for MMC .
The frequency of toxicity was increased in all grades , particularly for grades 2 and 3 .
The most common complaints were malaise , fatigue and lethargy , fever , and abdominal pain .
Thirty - two TICE BCG patients were reported to have been treated with isoniazid .
Five TICE BCG patients had liver enzyme elevation , including 2 with grade 3 elevations .
Eighteen of the 222 ( 8 . 1 % ) TICE BCG patients failed to complete the prescribed protocol compared to 6 . 2 % in the MMC group .
Table 6 summarizes the most common adverse reactions reported in this trial . 7 Table 6 : Most Common Adverse Reactions in SWOG Study 8795 [ 1 ] Study arm TICE BCG ( N = 222 ) MMC ( N = 220 ) Adverse event All Grades Grade ≥ 3 All Grades Grade ≥ 3 Dysuria 115 ( 52 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 77 ( 35 % ) 5 ( 2 % ) Urgency / frequency 112 ( 50 % ) 5 ( 2 % ) 63 ( 29 % ) 7 ( 3 % ) Hematuria 85 ( 38 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 56 ( 25 % ) 5 ( 2 % ) Flu - like symptoms 54 ( 24 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 29 ( 13 % ) 0 Fever 37 ( 17 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 7 ( 3 % ) 0 Pain ( not specified ) 37 ( 17 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 22 ( 10 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Hemorrhagic cystitis 19 ( 9 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 10 ( 5 % ) 0 Chills 19 ( 9 % ) 0 2 ( 1 % ) 0 Bladder cramps 18 ( 8 % ) 0 9 ( 4 % ) 0 Nausea 16 ( 7 % ) 0 12 ( 5 % ) 0 Incontinence 8 ( 4 % ) 0 3 ( 1 % ) 0 Myalgia / arthralgia 7 ( 3 % ) 0 0 0 Diaphoresis 7 ( 3 % ) 0 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 Rash 6 ( 3 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 16 ( 7 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) [ 1 ] The adverse reaction profile of TICE BCG was similar in the Nijmegen study . 8 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage occurs if more than 1 vial of TICE ® BCG is administered per instillation .
If overdosage occurs , the patient should be closely monitored for signs of active local or systemic BCG infection .
For acute local or systemic reactions suggesting active infection , an infectious disease specialist experienced in BCG complications should be consulted .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose for the intravesical treatment of carcinoma in situ and for the prophylaxis of recurrent papillary tumors consists of 1 vial of TICE ® BCG suspended in 50 mL preservative - free saline .
Do not inject subcutaneously or intravenously .
Preparation of Agent The preparation of the TICE BCG suspension should be done using aseptic technique .
To avoid cross - contamination , parenteral drugs should not be prepared in areas where BCG has been prepared .
A separate area for the preparation of the TICE BCG suspension is recommended .
All equipment , supplies , and receptacles in contact with TICE BCG should be handled and disposed of as biohazardous .
The pharmacist or individual responsible for mixing the agent should wear gloves and take precautions to avoid contact of BCG with broken skin .
If preparation cannot be performed in a biocontainment hood , then a mask and gown should be worn to avoid inhalation of BCG organisms and inadvertent exposure to broken skin .
Draw 1 mL of sterile , preservative - free saline ( 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP ) at 4 – 25 ° C into a small syringe ( e . g . , 3 mL ) and add to 1 vial of TICE BCG to resuspend .
Ensure that the needle is inserted through the center of the rubber stopper of the vial .
Gently swirl the vial until a homogenous suspension is obtained .
Avoid forceful agitation which may cause clumping of the mycobacteria .
Dilute the cloudy TICE BCG suspension in sterile , preservative - free saline to a final volume of 50 mL .
Mix the suspension gently prior to intravesical instillation .
The reconstituted TICE BCG should be kept refrigerated ( 2 – 8 ° C ) , protected from exposure to direct sunlight , and used within 2 hours .
Discard unused portion .
Note : DO NOT filter the contents of the TICE BCG vial .
Precautions should be taken to avoid exposing the TICE BCG to direct sunlight .
Bacteriostatic solutions must be avoided .
In addition , use only sterile , preservative - free saline , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP as diluent .
Treatment and Schedule Allow 7 to 14 days to elapse after bladder biopsy before TICE BCG is administered .
Patients should not drink fluids for 4 hours before treatment and should empty their bladder prior to TICE BCG administration .
The reconstituted TICE BCG is instilled into the bladder by gravity flow via the catheter .
After instillation of the TICE BCG suspension is complete , remove the catheter .
The TICE BCG is retained in the bladder for 2 hours and then voided .
Patients unable to retain the suspension for 2 hours should be allowed to void sooner , if necessary .
While the BCG is retained in the bladder , the patient ideally should be repositioned from left side to right side and also should lie upon the back and the abdomen , changing these positions every 15 minutes to maximize bladder surface exposure to the agent .
A standard treatment schedule consists of 1 intravesical instillation per week for 6 weeks .
This schedule may be repeated once if tumor remission has not been achieved and if the clinical circumstances warrant .
Thereafter , intravesical TICE BCG administration should continue at approximately monthly intervals for at least 6 to 12 months .
There are no data to support the interchangeability of BCG LIVE products .
HOW SUPPLIED TICE ® BCG is supplied in a box of 1 single - dose vial of TICE BCG .
Each vial contains 1 to 8 × 108 CFU , which is equivalent to approximately 50 mg ( wet weight ) , as lyophilized ( freeze - dried ) powder , NDC 0052 - 0602 - 02 .
STORAGE The intact vials of TICE ® BCG should be stored refrigerated , at 2 – 8 ° C ( 36 – 46 ° F ) .
This agent contains live bacteria and should be protected from direct sunlight .
The product should not be used after the expiration date printed on the label .
REFERENCES • DeJager R , Guinan P , Lamm D , Khanna O , Brosman S , DeKernion J , et al .
Long - Term Complete Remission in Bladder Carcinoma in Situ with Intravesical TICE Bacillus Calmette Guerin .
Urology 1991 ; 38 : 507 – 513 .
• Rawls WH , Lamm DL , Lowe BA , Crawford ED , Sarosdy MF , Montie JE , Grossman HB , Scardino PT .
Fatal Sepsis Following Intravesical Bacillus Calmette - Guerin Administration For Bladder Cancer .
J Urol 1990 ; 144 : 1328 – 1330 .
• Lamm DL , van der Meijden APM , Morales A , Brosman SA , Catalona WJ , Herr HW , et al .
Incidence and Treatment of Complications of Bacillus Calmette - Guerin Intravesical Therapy in Superficial Bladder Cancer .
J . Urol 1992 ; 147 : 596 – 600 .
• Stone MM , Vannier AM , Storch SK , Nitta AT , Zhang Y . Brief Report : Meningitis Due to Iatrogenic BCG Infection in Two Immunocompromised Children .
NEJM 1995 : 333 : 561 – 563 .
• Steg A , Leleu C , Debre B , Gibod - Boccon L , Sicard D . Systemic Bacillus Calmette - Guerin Infection in Patients Treated by Intravesical BCG Therapy for Superficial Bladder Cancer .
EORTC Genitourinary Group Monograph 6 : BCG in Superficial Bladder Cancer .
Edited by F . M . J . Debruyne , L . Denis and A . P . M . van der Meijden .
New York : Alan R . Liss Inc . , pp . 325 – 334 .
• van der Meijden , APM .
Practical Approaches to the Prevention and Treatment of Adverse Reactions to BCG .
Eur Urol 1995 ; 27 ( suppl 1 ) : 23 – 28 .
• Lamm DL , Blumenstein BA , Crawford ED , Crissman JD , Lowe BA , Smith JA , Sarosdy MF , Schellhammer PF , Sagalowsky AI , Messing EM , et al .
Randomized Intergroup Comparison of Bacillus Calmette - Guerin Immunotherapy and Mitomycin C Chemotherapy Prophylaxis in Superficial Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder .
Urol Oncol 1995 ; 1 : 119 – 126 .
• Witjes JA , van der Meijden APM , Witjes WPJ , et al .
A Randomized Prospective Study Comparing Intravesical Instillations of Mitomycin - C , BCG - Tice , and BCG - RIVM in pTa - pT1 Tumours and Primary Carcinoma In Situ of the Urinary Bladder .
Eur J Cancer 1993 ; 29 A ( 12 ) : 1672 – 1676 .
Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC Rahway , NJ 07065 , USA Manufactured by : Merck Teknika LLC , Durham , NC 27712 , USA U . S . License No . 1747 For patent information : www . msd . com / research / patent TICE is a registered trademark of The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois , used under the license of Merck Teknika LLC , Durham , NC , USA .
Copyright © 2021 - 2022 Merck & Co . , Inc . , Rahway , NJ , USA , and its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
Revised : 8 / 2022 uspi - v914 - pwi - 2208r011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Vial Carton NDC 0052 - 0602 - 02 BCG LIVE ( for Intravesical Use ) TICE ® BCG Rx only Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
