Active ingredient Potassium iodide ( USP ) 65 mg Purpose Thyroid blocking Uses Helps prevent radioactive iodine from getting into the thyroid gland during a nuclear radiation emergency .
Use along with other emergency measures recommended by public officials .
Warnings Allergy alert : Iodine may cause an allergic reaction with 1 or more of the following symptoms : • • shortness of breath or wheezing • • skin rash • • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • • swelling • • fever and joint pain Do not use if you have ever had • • an allergic reaction to iodine • • nodular thyroid disease with heart disease • • hypocomplementemic vasculitis • • dermatitis herpetiformis Stop use and ask a doctor if you have • • an allergic reaction .
Get medical help right away if you have trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing ; shortness of breath ; wheezing ; swelling of the mouth , tongue or throat ; or rash .
• • irregular heart or chest pain .
Get medical help right away .
• • swelling of the hands or feet , fever , or joint pain .
Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • use as directed by public officials in the event of a nuclear radiation emergency .
• • do not take more than 1 dose in 24 hours .
Dosing Chart ( dropper inside ) Adults over 18 years 2 mL every day ( 130 mg ) and Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh at least 150 pounds 2 mL every day ( 130 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh less than 150 pounds 1 mL every day ( 65 mg ) and Children over 3 years to 12 years 1 mL every day ( 65 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Children over 1 month to 3 years 0 . 5 mL every day ( 32 . 5 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Babies at birth to 1 month 0 . 25 mL every day ( 16 . 25 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] If pregnant , breastfeeding , have a baby up to 1 month of age or have thyroid disease ( except nodular thyroid disease with heart disease ) , take as directed above and contact a doctor as soon as possible .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other Information • • store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
• • keep container tightly closed • • keep in carton protected from light • • do not throw away consumer package insert Inactive ingredients FD & C Red # 40 and Blue # 1 , methylparaben , natural and artificial black raspberry flavor , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water ( USP ) , sodium saccharin , sucrose Questions or Comments ?
call toll free 1 - 800 - 343 - 0164 Patient Information ThyroShield ® ( Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , 1 mL = 65 mg ) ( Abbreviated KI ) Take potassium iodide ( KI ) only when public officials tell you .
In a nuclear radiation emergency , radioactive iodine could be released into the air .
KI protects only the thyroid gland from uptake of radioactive iodine .
Therefore , KI should be used along with other emergency measures that will be recommended to you by public officials .
If you are told to take this medicine , take it one time every 24 hours .
Do not take it more often .
More KI will not help you .
Too much KI may increase the chances of side effects .
Do not take this medicine if you know you are allergic to iodine ( see SIDE EFFECTS below ) .
DESCRIPTION : Each milliliter ( 1 mL ) of ThyroShield ® contains 65 mg of potassium iodide ( USP ) in a black raspberry - flavored solution .
Inactive ingredients are : FD & C Red # 40 and Blue # 1 , methylparaben , natural and artificial black raspberry flavor , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water ( USP ) , sodium saccharin , sucrose .
INDICATIONS : ThyroShield ® ( Potassium Iodide Oral Solution ) is a thyroid blocking medicine that is used in a nuclear radiation emergency only .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : Use only as directed by public officials if a nuclear radiation emergency happens .
Dose : Adults over 18 years 2 mL every day ( 130 mg ) Children over 12 years to 18 years 2 mL every day ( 130 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] who weigh at least 150 pounds Children over 12 years to 18 years 1 mL every day ( 65 mg ) who weigh less than 150 pounds Children over 3 years to 12 years 1 mL every day ( 65 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Children over 1 month to 3 years 0 . 5 mL every day ( 32 . 5 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Babies at birth to 1 month 0 . 25 mL every day ( 16 . 25 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Take KI every day ( every 24 hours ) as directed by public officials .
Do not take more than 1 dose in 24 hours .
More will not help you .
Too much medicine may increase the chances of side effects .
Pregnant or breastfeeding women , or babies under 1 month of age : Take as directed above and call a doctor as soon as possible .
Repeat dosing should be avoided .
It is recommended that thyroid function be checked in babies less than 1 month of age that take KI .
Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should also be checked by a doctor if repeat dosing is necessary .
Although these precautions should be taken , the benefits of short - term use of KI to block uptake of radioactive iodine by the thyroid gland far exceed its chances of side effects .
Patients with thyroid disease : If you have both a nodular thyroid condition such as multinodular goiter with heart disease , you should not take KI .
Patients with other thyroid conditions may take KI as directed above , but call a doctor if you need to take KI for more than a few days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : People who are allergic to iodine , have dermatitis herpetiformis or hypocomplementemic vasculitis , or have nodular thyroid disease with heart disease should not take KI .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of an allergic reaction ( difficulty breathing , speaking or swallowing ; wheezing ; shortness of breath or swelling of the mouth or throat ) , call 911 or get medical care right away .
In case of overdose , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away .
HOW POTASSIUM IODIDE WORKS : Certain forms of iodine help your thyroid gland work right .
Most people get the iodine they need from foods like iodized salt or fish .
The thyroid can “ store ” or hold only a certain amount of iodine .
In nuclear radiation emergency , radioactive iodine may be released in the air .
This material may be breathed or swallowed .
It may enter the thyroid gland and damage it .
The damage would probably not show itself for years .
Children are most likely to have thyroid damage .
If you take KI , it will block or reduce the chances that radioactive iodine will enter your thyroid gland .
WHO SHOULD NOT TAKE POTASSIUM IODIDE : People should avoid KI if they are allergic to iodine , have dermatitis herpetiformis or hypocomplementemic vasculitis , or have nodular thyroid disease with heart disease , because these conditions may increase the chances of side effects to iodine .
HOW AND WHEN TO TAKE POTASSIUM IODIDE : KI should be taken as soon as possible after public officials tell you .
If you are told to repeat the dose , you should take the second dose 24 hours after the first dose .
Do not take it sooner .
More KI will not help you because the thyroid can “ hold ” only certain amounts of iodine .
Taking more than 1 dose per day will increase the chances of side effects .
The public officials will tell you how many days to take KI .
You should take KI until the chances of major exposure to radioactive iodine by breathing or swallowing stops .
SIDE EFFECTS : Short - term use of KI at the recommended dose is safe .
You should not take this drug for longer than you are told .
Possible side effects include : swelling of the salivary glands , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , stomach ache , fever , headache , metallic taste , and allergic reactions .
Allergic reaction can include • • skin rashes such as hives • • swelling of various parts of the body such as the face , lips , tongue , throat , hands or feet • • fever with joint pain • • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • • wheezing or shortness of breath Get medical attention right away if you have trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing ; wheezing ; shortness of breath ; or swelling of the mouth , tongue or throat .
Taking iodide , in rare cases , may cause overactivity of the thyroid gland , underactivity of the thyroid gland , or enlargement of the thyroid gland ( goiter ) .
Symptoms of an overactive thyroid gland may include an irregular heart beat and chest pain .
Patients with thyroid disease are more likely to get these side effects .
Babies under 1 month of age are more likely to get an underactive thyroid gland ( hypothyroidism ) .
WHAT TO DO IF SIDE EFFECTS OCCUR : Stop taking KI and call a doctor if you have one or more of the following symptoms : • • swelling of the face , hands or feet • • fever and joint pain • • skin rash Stop taking KI and get medical help right away if you have one or more of the following symptoms : • • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • • shortness of breath or wheezing • • swelling of the lips , tongue or throat • • irregular heart beat or chest pain You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : FD & C Red # 40 and Blue # 1 , methylparaben , natural and artificial black raspberry flavor , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water ( USP ) , sodium saccharin , sucrose .
HOW SUPPLIED : ThyroShield ® ( Potassium Iodide Oral Solution ) is supplied in 1 oz ( 30 mL ) bottles .
Each mL contains 65 mg potassium iodide .
Store at 25º C ( 77º F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30º C ( 59 - 86º F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Keep container tightly closed and in carton , protected from light .
Manufactured for Arco Pharmaceuticals LLC , St . Louis , MO 63105 1 - 800 - 343 - 0164 .
L240 Principal Display Panel - carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
