Drug Facts Active ingredient Ivermectin 0 . 5 % Purpose Lice treatment Use treats head lice Warnings For external use only .
Use only on the scalp .
Do not use • on children under 6 months of age • near the eyes • inside the nose , ear , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you • have any skin conditions or sensitivities • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if product can harm your unborn baby .
• are currently or planning to breastfeed .
Avoid getting product on your breast to help prevent contact by your baby .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into eyes , gently flush with water • eye redness , soreness , or irritation can occur • dandruff , dry skin , or burning sensation of the skin can occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs • rash develops If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Important : Read warnings before use • children 6 months of age to under 12 years of age : an adult should supervise use • adults and children 6 months of age and over : Inspect • all household members should be checked by another person for lice and / or nits ( eggs ) • use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and / or nits ( eggs ) • use a tool , such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils to lift and part the hair • look for tiny nits near the scalp , beginning at the back of the neck and behind the ears • examine small sections of the hair ( 1 - 2 inches wide ) at a time • unlike dandruff , nits stick to the hair .
Dandruff should move when lightly touched .
• if either lice or nits ( eggs ) are found , treat with product Treat • your hair and scalp must be DRY before applying product • use the top of cap to break the tamper seal on the tube • apply product directly to dry hair and scalp • completely cover your scalp and hair closest to the scalp first , and then apply outwards towards the ends of your hair • use only amount needed to completely cover hair and scalp , up to 1 entire tube , and discard the remaining • rub product throughout your hair • it is important to completely cover your entire head so that all lice and eggs are exposed to the lotion .
Be sure that each hair is coated from the scalp to the tip .
Wait and rinse • allow product to stay on your hair and scalp for 10 minutes after it has been applied .
Use a timer or clock .
Start timing after you have completely covered your hair and scalp with product .
• after 10 minutes , rinse product completely from your hair and scalp using only water • after rinsing , dry and style as usual .
Wait 24 hours before applying shampoo .
After treatment • wash your hands after applying product • nit combing is not necessary when treating with product for it to work , but if desired , a fine - tooth comb or special nit comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits • this is a single use product .
Discard tube after use .
• do not use again on the same person and same lice infestation without talking to a healthcare provider first • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments • machine wash any bedding and clothing used by anyone having lice .
Machine wash at high temperatures ( 150 ° F ) and tumble in a hot dryer for 20 minutes .
• after finishing treatment with lice medicine , check everyone in your family for lice after one week .
Consider treatment for those who have lice .
Other information • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE TAMPER SEAL ON THE TUBE HAS BEEN BROKEN .
• store at room temperature 68º - 77ºF ( 20º - 25ºC ) • do not freeze • keep carton and see Consumer Information Leaflet and warnings before use Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxyanisole , castor oil , cetyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , crodalan AWS , cyclomethicone , glycerin , imidurea , lanolin alcohols , methylparaben , oleyl alcohol , olive oil , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , shea butter , sodium citrate anhydrous , sorbitan tristearate and stearyl alcohol .
Questions ?
1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID , 30 HUNTER LANE , CAMP HILL , PA 17011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 117 g Tube Carton Compare to the active ingredient in Sklice ® * NDC 11822 - 4230 - 8 IVERMECTIN LOTION , 0 . 5 % LICE TREATMENT One tube , one time , 10 minutes !
Now available without a prescription Original prescription strength No nit combing required No second application required 1 TUBE NET WT .
4 OZ ( 117 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
