DESCRIPTION Each Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsule , USP contains 10 mg of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , USP .
Inactive ingredients consist of lactose anhydrous and talc .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is N - ( 2 - Chloroethyl ) - N - ( 1 - methyl - 2 - phenoxyethyl ) benzylamine hydrochloride : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is a white solid crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 340 . 3 , which melts between 136 ° and 141 ° C .
It is freely soluble in methanol , soluble in acetone , insoluble in ethyl acetate .
USP Organic Impurities Test pending .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is a long - acting , adrenergic , alpha - receptor - blocking agent , which can produce and maintain " chemical sympathectomy " by oral administration .
It increases blood flow to the skin , mucosa and abdominal viscera , and lowers both supine and erect blood pressures .
It has no effect on the parasympathetic system .
Twenty to 30 percent of orally administered phenoxybenzamine appears to be absorbed in the active form .
¹ The half - life of orally administered phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is not known ; however , the half - life of intravenously administered drug is approximately 24 hours .
Demonstrable effects with intravenous administration persist for at least 3 to 4 days , and the effects of daily administration are cumulative for nearly a week .
¹ INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsules , USP is indicated in the treatment of pheochromocytoma , to control episodes of hypertension and sweating .
If tachycardia is excessive , it may be necessary to use a beta - blocking agent concomitantly .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Conditions where a fall in blood pressure may be undesirable ; hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components .
WARNINGS Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride - induced alpha - adrenergic blockade leaves beta - adrenergic receptors unopposed .
Compounds that stimulate both types of receptors may , therefore , produce an exaggerated hypotensive response and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Administer with caution in patients with marked cerebral or coronary arteriosclerosis or renal damage .
Adrenergic blocking effect may aggravate symptoms of respiratory infections .
Drug Interactions2 Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride may interact with compounds that stimulate both alpha - and beta - adrenergic receptors ( i . e . , epinephrine ) to produce an exaggerated hypotensive response and tachycardia .
( See WARNINGS . )
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride blocks hyperthermia production by levarterenol , and blocks hypothermia production by reserpine .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis Case reports of carcinoma in humans after long - term treatment with phenoxybenzamine have been reported .
Hence long - term use of phenoxybenzamine is not recommended3 , 4 .
Carefully weigh the benefits and risks before prescribing this drug .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride showed in vitro mutagenic activity in the Ames test and mouse lymphoma assay ; it did not show mutagenic activity in vivo in the micronucleus test in mice .
In rats and mice , repeated intraperitoneal administration of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride ( three times per week for up to 52 weeks ) resulted in peritoneal sarcomas .
Chronic oral dosing in rats ( for up to 2 years ) produced malignant tumors of the small intestine and non - glandular stomach , as well as ulcerative and / or erosive gastritis of the glandular stomach .
Whereas squamous cell carcinomas of the non - glandular stomach were observed at all tested doses of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , there was a no - observed - effect - level of 10 mg / kg for tumors ( carcinomas and sarcomas ) of the small intestine .
This dose is , on a body surface area basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dosage of 20 mg b . i . d . Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C Adequate reproductive studies in animals have not been performed with phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride .
It is also not known whether phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there are insufficient data to support an estimate of their frequency .
Autonomic Nervous System * : Postural hypotension , tachycardia , inhibition of ejaculation , nasal congestion , miosis .
* These so - called " side effects " are actually evidence of adrenergic blockade and vary according to the degree of blockade .
Miscellaneous : Gastrointestinal irritation , drowsiness , fatigue .
OVERDOSAGE SYMPTOMS - These are largely the result of blocking of the sympathetic nervous system and of the circulating epinephrine .
They may include postural hypotension , resulting in dizziness or fainting ; tachycardia , particularly postural ; vomiting ; lethargy ; shock .
TREATMENT When symptoms and signs of overdosage exist , discontinue the drug .
Treatment of circulatory failure , if present , is a prime consideration .
In cases of mild overdosage , recumbent position with legs elevated usually restores cerebral circulation .
In the more severe cases , the usual measures to combat shock should be instituted .
Usual pressor agents are not effective .
Epinephrine is contraindicated because it stimulates both alpha - and beta - receptors ; since alpha - receptors are blocked , the net effect of epinephrine administration is vasodilation and a further drop in blood pressure ( epinephrine reversal ) .
The patient may have to be kept flat for 24 hours or more in the case of overdose , as the effect of the drug is prolonged .
Leg bandages and an abdominal binder may shorten the period of disability .
I . V . Infusion of levarterenol bitartrate ** may be used to combat severe hypotensive reactions , because it stimulates alpha - receptors primarily .
Although phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is an alpha - adrenergic blocking agent , a sufficient dose of levarterenol bitartrate will overcome this effect .
The oral LD50 for phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride is approximately 2 , 000 mg / kg in rats and approximately 500 mg / kg in guinea pigs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage should be adjusted to fit the needs of each patient .
Small initial doses should be slowly increased until the desired effect is obtained or the side effects from blockade become troublesome .
After each increase , the patient should be observed on that level before instituting another increase .
The dosage should be carried to a point where symptomatic relief and / or objective improvement are obtained , but not so high that the side effects from blockade become troublesome .
Initially , 10 mg of phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride twice a day .
Dosage should be increased every other day , usually to 20 to 40 mg 2 or 3 times a day , until an optimal dosage is obtained , as judged by blood pressure control .
Long - term use of phenoxybenzamine is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS Carciongenesis and Mutagenesis ) STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
HOW SUPPLIED Each phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsule , USP with Scarlet trans colored cap and body imprinted with PAR on cap and 260 in body contains white to off white powder .
Phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride capsules USP , 10 mg in bottles of 100 ( NDC 49884 - 038 - 01 ) .
REFERENCES • Weiner , N . : Drugs That Inhibit Adrenergic Nerves and Block Adrenergic Receptors , in Goodman , L . , and Gilman , A . , The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics , ed .
6 , New York , Macmillan Publishing Co . , 1980 , p . 179 ; p . 182 .
• Martin , E . W . : Drug Interactions Index 1978 / 1979 , Philadelphia , J . B . Lippincott Co . , 1978 , pp . 209 - 210 .
• Nettesheim O , Hoffken G , Gahr M , Breidert M : Haematemesis and dysphagia in a 20 - year - old woman with congenital spine malformation and situs inversus partialis [ German ] .
Zeitschrift fur Gastroenterologie .
2003 ; 41 ( 4 ) : 319 - 24 .
• Vaidyanathan S , Mansour P , Soni BM , Hughes PL , Singh G : Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia , synchronous small cell carcinoma and squamous neoplasia of the urinary bladder in a paraplegic man following long - term phenoxybenzamine therapy .
Spinal Cord .
2006 ; 44 ( 3 ) : 188 - 91 .
** Available as Levophed ® Bitartrate ( brand of norepinephrine bitartrate ) from Abbott Laboratories .
Dist .
by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 U . S . A . Mfg . by : Par Formulations Private Limited , 9 / 215 , Pudupakkam , Kelambakkam - 603 103 .
Made in India Mfg . Lic .
No . : TN00002121 OS038 - 01 - 74 - 02 Revised : 05 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
