Active ingredients Piperonyl butoxide 4 % Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Warnings For external use only Do not use • • near eyes • • inside nose , mouth , or vagina • • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product • • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • • if product gets in eyes , flush with water right away • • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • • breathing difficulty occurs • • eye irritation occurs • • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • Important : Read warnings before use • Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect • • check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) • • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • • examine small sections of hair at a time • • unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair • • if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat • • shake well before using • • apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
• • allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer • • use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse • • for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) • • use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
• • hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits • • if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water • • for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
• • lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
• • pin back each strand of hair after combing • • clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
• • after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
• • check daily for any lice / nits that you missed • • a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice • • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • avoid excessive heat • • keep carton for important product information • • see Consumer Information Insert for additional information Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , C13 - C14 isoparaffin , fragrance , polyoxyethylene ( 1 , 1 , 3 , 3 - tetramethyl butyl ) phenyl ether , purified water , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information 3 - STEP PROCESS FOR LICE TREATMENT See carton for complete product information .
Step 1 ● Treat Apply Lice Killing Shampoo See Usage Guidelines to estimate how much product you will need .
NOTE : • • Shake well before using .
• • Use towels to protect child ' s eyes from treatment and prevent clothes from getting wet .
• • Apply Lice Killing Shampoo thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
• • Wetting the hair dilutes the treatment making it less effective .
• • Also , lice can hold their breath when immersed in water making it difficult for the active ingredient to penetrate the lice .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • For head lice , thoroughly massage shampoo into scalp , behind the ears and to the back of the neck .
Lice can crawl up and down the shaft of the hair very quickly so it is important to apply the treatment from the roots to the ends of the hair .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Allow product to remain on the hair ( or other affected area ) for 10 minutes , but no longer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Add warm water and massage to form a lather .
• • Rinse thoroughly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • For head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles .
• • Proceed to Step 2 .
• • A second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice .
Usage Guidelines Hair Length Short ( ear length or shorter ) Medium ( shoulder length ) Long ( past shoulder length ) Approximate Amount for 1 Adult / Child First Application : 1 oz – 2 oz First Application : 2 oz – 3 oz First Application : 3 oz – 4 oz Second Application : 1 oz – 2 oz Second Application : 2 oz – 3 oz Second Application : 3 oz – 4 oz Total : 2 oz – 4 oz Total : 4 oz – 6 oz Total : 6 oz – 8 oz Step 2 • Remove Comb out lice and eggs with lice comb or other fine - tooth comb and Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray This product should be used AFTER Lice Killing Shampoo ( Step 1 ) .
Combing is an important step to remove eggs .
NOTE : • • A fine - toothed comb or the special lice / nit removing comb ( included ) must be used to remove lice , eggs , and nits from hair .
• • Before starting have on hand : • - extra towels • - bobby pins or hair clips • - facial tissues or paper towels • - regular comb for parting and detangling hair • - throw - away gloves • • Find a distraction for your child ( e . g . books , TV , game ) .
• • Comb out damp hair with a regular wide - tooth comb to take out snarls and tangles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Apply a small amount of Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray and use a wide - tooth comb to remove any tangles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Lift a 1 - 2 " section of hair .
Start as close to scalp as possible , slowly comb section all the way to ends of hair with lice comb , using additional Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray to remove tangles as needed .
Use a tissue or paper towel to wipe any lice or eggs off comb .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pin back this section of hair .
Continue to comb out one 1 - 2 ” section at a time until entire head has been combed and pinned .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove pins and rinse thoroughly with warm water .
You may use your regular shampoo now if desired .
Combs should be disinfected for reuse by soaking in hot water ( above 130 ° F ) for 10 minutes .
Step 3 • Control Treat the home with Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray Use Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray to kill lice and their eggs on mattresses , furniture , car interiors and other non - washable items .
Not for use on humans .
Additional Tips for Success • • Be sure to complete all three steps in the Lice Treatment process .
This includes a second shampooing between 7 - 10 days after the initial treatment , but no sooner .
If any eggs were not initially combed out , lice may hatch and can be killed with the second treatment .
Newly hatched lice are not mature enough to lay new eggs .
• • Carefully inspect infested family members daily for at least 2 weeks after the second shampooing .
If you see eggs or nits , consult your doctor .
• • Teach children not to share personal items , such as hats , combs and brushes and to avoid prolonged contact with a person who has lice .
Did You Know ?
HEAD LICE • • Lay small white eggs ( nits ) on hair shaft close to scalp .
• • Nits are most easily found on back of neck or behind ears .
• • Disinfect hats , hair ribbons , scarves , coats , towels , and bed linens by machine washing in hot water ( above 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) ) , then using hottest dryer cycle for at least 20 minutes .
• • Items that cannot be washed ( bedspreads , blankets , pillows , stuffed toys , etc . ) should be dry - cleaned or sealed in a plastic bag for 4 weeks , then removed outdoors and shaken out very hard before using again .
• • Items that cannot be washed , dry - cleaned , or stored may be sprayed with a product designed for this purpose .
• • Soak all combs and brushes in hot water ( above 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) ) for at least 10 minutes .
• • Vacuum all carpets , mattresses , upholstered furniture , and car seats that may have been used by affected people .
PUBIC ( CRAB ) LICE • • May be transmitted by sexual contact .
Sexual partners should be treated simultaneously to avoid reinfestation .
• • Lice are very small and look like brown or grey dots on skin .
• • Usually cause intense itching and lay small white eggs ( nits ) on the hair shaft generally close to the skin surface .
• • May be present on the short hairs of groin , thighs , trunk , and underarms , and occasionally on the beard and mustache .
• • Disinfect underwear by machine washing in hot water ( above 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) ) , then using hottest dryer cycle for at least 20 minutes .
BODY LICE • • Body lice and their eggs ( nits ) are generally found in the seams of clothing particularly in waistline and armpit area .
• • Body lice feed on skin then return to clothing to lay their eggs .
• • Disinfect clothing by machine washing in hot water ( above 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) ) , then using hottest dryer cycle for at least 20 minutes .
• • Do not seal clothing in a plastic bag because nits can remain dormant for up to 30 days .
Save this insert for future reference Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 6Y600 00 J1 Keep carton for important product information .
Lice Killing Shampoo Drug Facts Active ingredients Piperonyl butoxide 4 % Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Warnings For external use only Do not use • • near eyes • • inside nose , mouth , or vagina • • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product • • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • • if product gets in eyes , flush with water right away • • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • • breathing difficulty occurs • • eye irritation occurs • • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • Important : Read warnings before use • Adults and children 2 years and over : • Inspect • • check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) • • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • • examine small sections of hair at a time • • unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair • • if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product • Treat • • shake well before using • • apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
• • allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer • • use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse • • for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles • Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) • • use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
• • hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits • • if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water • • for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
• • lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
• • pin back each strand of hair after combing • • clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
• • after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
• • check daily for any lice / nits that you missed • • a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice • • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , C13 - C14 isoparaffin , fragrance , polyoxyethylene ( 1 , 1 , 3 , 3 - tetramethyl butyl ) phenyl ether , purified water , xanthan gum Questions ?
800 - 719 - 9260 Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray Product Information Use detangles hair in order to make lice and egg comb - out easier Warnings For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Directions for use • • use AFTER shampooing with a lice killing shampoo • • towel dry hair .
Apply a small amount of this product and use a wide - toothed comb to remove any tangles .
• • comb out the dead lice , eggs and nits , one small section at a time , with the enclosed lice comb .
This step is very important .
• • use additional product to remove tangles , if needed , during the comb - out process • • after you have combed entire head , rinse hair thoroughly with warm water .
Disinfect combs with hot water ( 130 ° F ) .
Ingredients purified water , polysorbate 20 , glycerin , propylene glycol , phenoxyethanol , amodimethicone , fragrance , DL - panthenol , trideceth - 12 , cetrimonium chloride , methylchloroisothiazolinone , methylisothiazolinone Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray Not for use on humans .
ACTIVE INGREDIENT : † Permethrin … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … . 0 . 50 % †† OTHER INGREDIENTS : … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 99 . 50 % • 100 . 00 % † Cis / trans ratio : Max .
55 % ( + / - ) cis and Min .
45 % ( + / - ) trans .
†† Contains petroleum distillate .
FIRST AID If on skin or clothing : • • Take off contaminated clothing .
• • Rinse skin immediately with plenty of water for 15 - 20 minutes .
• • Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice .
If in eyes : • • Hold eye open and rinse slowly and gently with water for 15 - 20 minutes .
• • Remove contact lenses , if present , after the first 5 minutes , then continue rinsing eye .
• • Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice .
If swallowed : • • Immediately call a poison control center or doctor .
• • Do not induce vomiting unless told to do so by a poison control center or doctor .
• • Do not give any liquid to the person .
• • Do not give anything by mouth to an unconscious person .
If inhaled : • • Move person to fresh air .
• • If person is not breathing , call 911 or an ambulance , then give artificial respiration , preferably by mouth - to - mouth , if possible .
HOT LINE NUMBER Have the product container or label with you when calling a poison control center or doctor , or going for treatment .
For additional information on this product ( including health concerns , medical emergencies or pesticide incidents ) , you may call 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
NOTE TO PHYSICIAN Contains petroleum distillate – vomiting may cause aspiration pneumonia .
PRECAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Hazards To Humans & Domestic Animals CAUTION : Harmful if absorbed through skin .
Avoid inhalation of spray mist .
Causes moderate eye irritation .
Avoid contact with skin , eyes or clothing .
Wash thoroughly with soap and water after handling and before eating , drinking , chewing gum , or using tobacco or the toilet .
Remove and wash contaminated clothing before reuse .
PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL HAZARDS Contents under pressure .
Do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Exposure to temperatures above 130 ° F ( 54 ° C ) may cause bursting .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE It is a violation of Federal law to use this product in a manner inconsistent with its labeling .
Use Restrictions : • • Do not allow adults , children , or pets to enter until vapors , mists and aerosols have dispersed , and the treated area has been thoroughly ventilated .
• • Do not allow adults , children , or pets to enter the treated area until sprays have dried .
• • In the home , cover all food processing surfaces and utensils during treatment and thoroughly wash before use .
Cover or remove exposed food .
• • Remove pets , birds and cover any water inhabited by fish ( such as aquariums and ornamental fish ponds ) before application .
Turn off aquarium filtering systems before spraying and wait approximately 15 minutes after application before turning the filter back on .
• • This product is not for use on humans .
If lice infestations should occur on humans , use a product labeled for use on humans .
• • Application is prohibited directly into sewers or drains , or to any area like a gutter where drainage to sewers , storm drains , water bodies , or aquatic habitat can occur .
Do not allow the product to enter any drain during or after application .
• • Not for broadcast use on indoor residential surfaces .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING Remove protective cap .
Hold container upright with nozzle away from you .
Depress valve and spray from a distance of 12 to 15 inches for baseboards , moldings and when applying to floors as a spot spray and 8 to 10 inches for clothing , furniture and bedding .
Test product on an inconspicuous area before applying to check for possible staining or discoloration .
Inspect again after drying .
Spray to the point of dampness but not run - off .
Over application may cause damage .
Will not stain surfaces or fabrics where water alone causes no damage .
To kill Lice and Louse eggs : Clean home .
Use this product for non - washable items only .
Washables should be washed in hot water and dried in high heat .
Spray only those articles and parts of bedding , including mattresses and furniture that cannot be either laundered or dry - cleaned .
Do not use on sheets or pillowcases .
Allow all sprayed articles to dry thoroughly before use .
If lice infestation occurs on humans , use a product labeled for use on humans .
Bedbugs : Spray mattresses , particularly around tufts and seams .
Take beds apart and spray into all joints .
Treat baseboards , moldings and floors .
Spray to the point of dampness but not run - off .
After mattress is dry , cover with mattress cover and sheet .
Do not use mattress without cover .
Retreat if infestation occurs , but not more than once every two weeks .
To control House Dust Mites ( Dermatophagoides spp . )
: This product controls house dust mites that may cause asthma , hay fever , rhinitis , watery eyes and sneezing .
One treatment lasts for up to 8 weeks .
On Upholstered Furniture – Test fabric in an inconspicuous area to insure dyes will not bleed .
Hold container upright with nozzle away from you .
Depress valve and spray from a distance of 8 to 10 inches .
Spray all fabric surfaces until damp .
Spray to the point of dampness but not run - off .
Do not use on delicate fabrics .
Allow furniture to dry thoroughly before using .
On Carpets – Apply as a spot spray to areas where dust mites are likely ( including along baseboards and moldings ) .
Hold nozzle approximately 12 to 18 inches from the carpet surface .
Spray until damp .
After application , brush the surface of the carpet with a broom or brush to insure deep penetration .
Allow carpet to dry thoroughly before reentering the treated area .
Drying time can be accelerated by using a fan .
On Mattresses – Spray the top , bottom and sides of mattresses until damp , paying particular attention to tufts and seams .
Allow to dry thoroughly before using .
After mattress is dry , cover with mattress cover and sheet .
Do not use mattress without cover .
Vacuum entire area once dry .
Since vacuuming stirs dust up in the air those with allergies should have another person vacuum or should wear a dust mask and use vacuum with a high efficiency particulate ( HEPA ) filter .
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL Do not contaminate water , food or feed by storage or disposal .
Pesticide Storage : Store in a cool , dry area away from children and pets and away from heat , sparks and open flame .
Do not transport or store below 32 ° F ( 0 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Do not freeze .
Pesticide Disposal and Container Handling : Do Not Puncture or Incinerate .
If empty : Place in trash or offer for recycling if available .
If partly filled : Call your local solid waste agency or 1 - 800 - CLEANUP ( 253 - 2687 ) for disposal instructions .
Never place unused product down any indoor or outdoor drain .
To the extent consistent with applicable law , purchaser assumes all responsibility for safety and use not in accordance with directions .
See carton for EPA numbers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENTS OF RID ® LICE KILLING SHAMPOO 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK Complete Lice Treatment Kit 3 Step Lice Control System 1 TREAT Lice Killing Shampoo 2 REMOVE Lice , Egg & Nit Combing Spray 3 CONTROL Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN CAUTION : SEE BACK AND SIDE PANELS FOR ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONS OTC network ONE NIT COMB The included comb is 100 % effective in the removal of eggs and lice from hair ♦ ♦ As demonstrated in laboratory testing SHAMPOO NET 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) COMBING SPRAY NET 2 FL OZ ( 59 mL ) SPRAY NET WT 5 OZ ( 142 g ) ONE NIT COMB INCLUDED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
