Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Purpose Ranitidine 75 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride 84 mg ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • do not chew tablet • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn ( bottles ) • do not use if individual blister unit is open or torn ( blisters ) • do not use if individual foil packet is open or torn ( pouch ) • store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sodium and sugar free Inactive ingredients hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , iron oxide , titanium dioxide , triacetin Questions ?
call 1 - 888 - 285 - 9159 ( English / Spanish ) M – F , 8 : 30 – 5 EST , or visit www . zantacotc . com Read the directions , consumer information leaflet and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim ( BI ) Consumer Health Care Products Division of BI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Ridgefield , CT 06877 © 2016 , BI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Product of Spain .
Manufactured in Mexico .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 2584 NDC : 68151 - 2584 - 0 1 TABLET , COATED in a PACKAGE Ranitidine HCL 75 mg tabs [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
