1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mitosol ® is an antimetabolite indicated for use as an adjunct to ab externo glaucoma surgery .
Mitosol ® is an antimetabolite indicated as an adjunct to ab externo glaucoma surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mitosol ® is intended for topical application to the surgical site of glaucoma filtration surgery .
It is not intended for intraocular administration .
( 2 ) • • Each vial of Mitosol ® contains 0 . 2 mg of mitomycin and mannitol in a 1 : 2 concentration ratio .
To reconstitute , add 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , then shake to dissolve .
If product does not dissolve immediately , allow to stand at room temperature until the product has dissolved into solution .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Fully saturate sponges provided within the Mitosol ® Kit utilizing the entire reconstituted contents of the vial in the manner prescribed in the Instructions for Use .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Apply fully saturated sponges equally to the treatment area , in a single layer , with the use of a surgical forceps .
Keep the sponges on the treatment area for two ( 2 ) minutes , then remove and return to the Mitosol ® Tray for defined disposal .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions Mitosol ® is intended for topical application to the surgical site of glaucoma filtration surgery .
Mitosol ® is a cytotoxic drug .
It is not intended for intraocular administration .
If intraocular administration occurs , cell death leading to corneal infarction , retinal infarction , and ciliary body atrophy may result .
Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to using Mitosol ® .
2 . 2 Method of Reconstitution Each vial of Mitosol ® contains 0 . 2 mg of mitomycin and mannitol in a 1 : 2 concentration ratio .
To reconstitute , add 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , then shake to dissolve .
If product does not dissolve immediately , allow to stand at room temperature until the product dissolves into solution .
2 . 3 Method of Use Sponges provided within the Mitosol ® Kit should be fully saturated with the entire reconstituted contents in the manner prescribed in the Instructions for Use .
A treatment area approximating 10 mm x 6 mm + / - 2 mm should be treated with the Mitosol ® .
Apply fully saturated sponges equally to the treatment area , in a single layer , with the use of a surgical forceps .
Keep the sponges on the treatment area for two ( 2 ) minutes , then remove and return to the Mitosol ® Tray for defined disposal in the Chemotherapy Waste Bag provided .
2 . 4 Stability Lyophilized Mitosol ® stored at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) is stable for the shelf life indicated on the package .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from light .
Reconstituted with 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection at a concentration of 0 . 2 mg / mL , mitomycin is stable for one ( 1 ) hour at room temperature .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Mitosol ® is a sterile lyophilized mixture of mitomycin and mannitol , which , when reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , provides a solution for application in glaucoma filtration surgery .
Mitosol ® is supplied in vials containing 0 . 2 mg of mitomycin .
Each vial also contains mannitol 0 . 4 mg , at a 1 : 2 ratio of mitomycin to mannitol .
Each mL of reconstituted solution contains 0 . 2 mg mitomycin and has a pH between 5 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
Each vial contains a sterile lyophilized mixture of 0 . 2 mg mitomycin and 0 . 4 mg mannitol ; when reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , the solution contains 0 . 2 mg / mL mitomycin .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to mitomycin .
( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Mitosol ® is contraindicated in patients that have demonstrated a hypersensitivity to mitomycin in the past .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Cell Death : Mitomycin is cytotoxic .
Use of mitomycin in concentrations higher than 0 . 2 mg / mL or use for longer than 2 minutes may lead to unintended corneal and / or scleral damage including thinning or perforation .
Direct contact with the corneal endothelium will result in cell death .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypotony : The use of mitomycin has been associated with an increased incidence of post - operative hypotony .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Cataract Development : Use in phakic patients has been correlated to a higher incidence of lenticular change and cataract formation .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise of potential risk to a fetus .
Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to use .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Cell Death Mitomycin is cytotoxic .
Use of mitomycin in concentrations higher than 0 . 2 mg / mL or use for longer than 2 minutes may lead to unintended corneal and / or scleral damage including thinning or perforation .
Direct contact with the corneal endothelium will result in cell death .
5 . 2 Hypotony The use of mitomycin has been associated with an increased incidence of post - operative hypotony .
5 . 3 Cataract Formation Use in phakic patients has been correlated to a higher incidence of lenticular change and cataract formation .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action , Mitosol ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , parenteral administration of mitomycin resulted in teratogenicity [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Cell Death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hypotony [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Cataract Formation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most frequent adverse reactions to Mitosol ® occur locally and include hypotony , hypotony maculopathy , blebitis , endophthalmitis , vascular reactions , corneal reactions , and cataract .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mobius Therapeutics LLC at 1 - 877 - 393 - 6486 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequent adverse reactions to Mitosol ® occur locally , as an extension of the pharmacological activity of the drug .
These reactions include : Blebitis : bleb ulceration , chronic bleb leak , encapsulated / cystic bleb , bleb - related infection , wound dehiscence , conjunctival necrosis , thin - walled bleb Cornea : corneal endothelial damage , epithelial defect , anterior synechiae , superficial punctuate keratitis , Descemet ' s detachment , induced astigmatism Endophthalmitis Hypotony : choroidal reactions ( choroidal detachment , choroidal effusion , serous choroidal detachment , suprachoroidal hemorrhage , hypotony maculopathy , presence of supraciliochoroidal fluid , hypoechogenic suprachoroidal effusion ) Inflammation : iritis , fibrin reaction Lens : cataract development , cataract progression , capsule opacification , capsular constriction and / or capsulotomy rupture , posterior synechiae Retina : retinal pigment epithelial tear , retinal detachment ( serous and rhegatogenous ) Scleritis : wound dehiscence Vascular : hyphema , central retinal vein occlusion , hemiretinal vein occlusion , retinal hemorrhage , vitreal hemorrhage and blood clot , subconjunctival hemorrhage , disk hemorrhage Additional Reactions : macular edema , sclera thinning or ulceration , intraocular lens capture , disk swelling , malignant glaucoma , lacrimal drainage system obstruction , ciliary block , corneal vascularization , visual acuity decrease , cystic conjunctival degeneration , upper eyelid retraction , dislocated implants , severe loss of vision .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , Mitosol ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on Mitosol ® use in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , parenteral administration of mitomycin resulted in teratogenicity ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Parenteral administration of mitomycin in animal reproduction studies produced fetal malformations and embryofetal lethality .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of mitomycin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during and for 1 week following administration of Mitosol ® .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Mitosol ® can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to using Mitosol ® .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Mitomycin is an antibiotic isolated from the broth of Streptomyces verticillus Yingtanensis which has been shown to have antimetabolic activity .
Mitomycin is a blue - violet crystalline powder with the molecular formula of C15H18N4O5 and a molecular weight of 334 . 33 .
Its chemical name is 7 - amino - 9α - methoxymitosane and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mitosol ® is a sterile lyophilized mixture of mitomycin and mannitol , which , when reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , provides a solution for application in glaucoma filtration surgery .
Mitosol ® is supplied in vials containing 0 . 2 mg of mitomycin .
Each vial also contains mannitol 0 . 4 mg , at a 1 : 2 ratio of mitomycin to mannitol .
Each mL of reconstituted solution contains 0 . 2 mg mitomycin and has a pH between 5 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mitosol ® inhibits the synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) .
The guanine and cytosine content correlates with the degree of mitomycin - induced cross - linking .
Cellular RNA and protein synthesis may also be suppressed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The systemic exposure of mitomycin following ocular administration of Mitosol ® in humans is unknown .
Based on a comparison of the proposed dose of up to 0 . 2 mg to intravenous ( IV ) doses of mitomycin used clinically for treatment of oncologic indications ( up to 20 mg / m2 ) , systemic concentrations in humans upon ocular administration are expected to be multiple orders of magnitude lower than those achieved by IV administration .
Elimination Metabolism In humans , mitomycin is cleared from ophthalmic tissue after intraoperative topical application and irrigation , as metabolism occurs in other affected tissues .
Systemic clearance is affected primarily by metabolism in the liver .
The rate of clearance is inversely proportional to the maximal serum concentration because of saturation of the degradative pathways .
Excretion Approximately 10 % of an injectable dose of mitomycin is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Since metabolic pathways are saturated at relatively low doses , the percent of a dose excreted in urine increases .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Adequate long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted with Mitosol ® .
Intravenous administration of mitomycin has been found to be carcinogenic in rats and mice .
At doses approximating the recommended clinical injectable dose in humans , mitomycin produces a greater than 100 percent increase in tumor incidence in male Sprague - Dawley rats , and a greater than 50 percent increase in tumor incidence in female Swiss mice .
The effect of Mitosol ® on fertility is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In placebo - controlled studies reported in the medical literature , mitomycin reduced intraocular pressure ( IOP ) by 3 mmHg in patients with open - angle glaucoma when used as an adjunct to ab externo glaucoma surgery by Month 12 .
In studies with a historical control reported in the medical literature , mitomycin reduced intraocular pressure ( IOP ) by 5 mmHg in patients with open - angle glaucoma when used as an adjunct to ab externo glaucoma surgery by Month 12 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Mitosol ® ( mitomycin for solution ) is available in a kit containing : One Vial containing 0 . 2 mg mitomycin One 1 mL syringe ( Sterile Water For Injection ) with Safety Connector One Plunger Rod One Vial Adapter with Spike One 1 mL TB Syringe , Luer Lock One Sponge Container Six 3 mm Absorbent Sponges Six 6 mm Absorbent Sponges Six Half Moon Sponges One Instrument Wedge Sponge One Protective Foam Pouch One Chemotherapy Waste Bag One Label , MMC ( mitomycin ) Three kits are supplied in each carton ( NDC 49771 - 002 - 03 ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Storage Store kits at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from light .
Handling Procedures Mitosol ® is a cytotoxic drug .
Procedures for Proper Handling and Disposal of anti - cancer drugs should be followed .
Appropriate containment and disposal devices are included within the Mitosol ® ( mitomycin for solution ) Kit for Ophthalmic Use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Instruct patients to discuss with their physician if they are pregnant or if they might become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Instruct patients to discuss with their physician if they have demonstrated a hypersensitivity to mitomycin in the past [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
• • Nursing mothers should be advised that it is not known if Mitosol ® is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during and for 1 week following administration of Mitosol ® [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• • Patients should be advised of the toxicity of Mitosol ® and potential complications .
Manufactured for : Mobius Therapeutics , LLC 1000 Executive Parkway Suite 224 St . Louis , MO 63141 Mitosol ® ( mitomycin for solution ) 0 . 2 mg / vial Kit for Ophthalmic Use Read INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Before Proceeding Instructions for Use A . Outer Pack ( Figure A ) One Sterile Chemotherapy Waste Bag One Instructions for Use One Package Insert One Inner Tray Two Patient Chart Labels The Outer Pack is to be handled , opened , and its STERILE contents dispensed by the non - sterile circulating nurse .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] B . STERILE Inner Tray ( Figure B ) One Vial Containing 0 . 2 mg mitomycin ( inside protective foam pouch ) One 1 mL Syringe ( Sterile Water for Injection ) with Safety Connector One Plunger Rod One Vial Adaptor with Spike ( inside protective foam pouch ) One 1 mL TB Syringe , Luer Lock One Sponge Container Containing : • Six 3 mm Absorbent Sponges • Six 6 mm Absorbent Sponges • Six Half Moon Sponges • One Instrument Wedge Sponge One Label , MMC ( mitomycin ) The Sterile Inner Tray is to be handled , opened , and its contents assembled and dispensed by the sterile scrub technician .
This tray and its contents are STERILE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Getting Started Non - Sterile Circulating Nurse : Open outer pack .
Affect sterile transfer of ALL contents to the sterile field .
Sterile Surgical Technician : Open sterile inner tray .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Reconstituting Mitosol ® a . Remove vial and vial adapter from blue foam pouch .
b . Screw white plunger rod to rubber plunger of pre ‑ filled syringe .
( Fig . 1 ) c . Press firmly and screw the blue end of the vial adapter into the blue end of the syringe connector .
( Fig . 2 ) NOTE : Do not force plunger .
Syringe will not operate if vial adapter and syringe connector are not properly connected .
Forcing plunger may result in syringe leakage and Mitosol ® exposure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] d . Stand vial upright on a sturdy , flat surface and push on the vial lid until seated and secure .
( Fig . 3 ) e . Inject entire contents of sterile water ( 1 ml ) into vial .
( Fig . 4 ) Do not force syringe plunger .
See note at step 2 .
f . IMPORTANT : INVERT VIAL REPEATEDLY to saturate ALL drug product , including that adhering to stopper , then shake until complete reconstitution of Mitosol ® .
If product does not dissolve immediately , allow to stand at room temperature until the product has dissolved into solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Preparing sponges a . Invert vial and syringe and draw full volume of medication into syringe .
( Fig . 5 ) b . Remove all sponges from sponge tray .
c . Return to sponge tray only those sponges to be saturated with Mitosol ® .
d . Unscrew the syringe with safety connector from vial and vial adapter .
( Fig . 6 ) Note : DO NOT remove safety connector from syringe .
e . Place vial and vial adaptor in chemotherapy waste disposal bag ( yellow bag ) , and set bag aside , within sterile field , for additional use .
f . Take sponge container from sterile inner tray .
g . Screw both syringes into sponge container ; the TB syringe to one end , the syringe with reconstituted Mitosol ® to the other .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] h . Mitosol ® must be used within 1 hour of reconstitution : • Inject medication into sponge container , saturating sponges .
Reconstituted Mitosol ® should remain undisturbed in sponge container for 60 seconds .
( Fig . 7 ) Do not force syringe plunger .
See note at step 2 .
• If any excess fluid remains , withdraw plunger of TB syringe , drawing excess fluid / air into syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Using Mitosol ® a . With both syringes connected , the TB syringe to one end , the pre - filled syringe to the other , open sponge container , offering contents to surgeon for placement on surgical site .
( Fig . 8 ) b . Apply saturated sponges to surgical site for two minutes .
Remove sponges from eye and copiously irrigate surgical site .
c .
As used sponges are removed from surgical site , accept used sponges back into sponge container for disposal .
Close container lid .
d . With syringes still connected to sponge container , remove entire assembly from surgical field in chemotherapy waste disposal bag .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] DISPOSE OF CHEMOTHERAPY WASTE BAG AND ITS CONTENTS AS CHEMOTHERAPY WASTE US Patents # 7 , 806 , 265 , # 8 , 186 , 511 , # D685 , 962 , # D685 , 963 , # 9 , 205 , 075 , # 9 , 539 , 241 and # 9 , 649 , 428 ; other international patents issued and pending .
A4807998 - 2 Rev . 07 / 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 49771 - 002 - 02 Mitosol ® ( mitomycin for solution ) 0 . 2 mg / vial Lyophilized Mitomycin for reconstitution Protect from light .
Single Use Vial Dose : See Package Insert .
Rx Only Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Mobius Therapeutics , LLC 1000 Executive Parkway Suite 224 St . Louis , MO 63141 Manufactured by : Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Ahmedabad - 382 210 , INDIA .
Mfg . Lic .
No . : G / 1026 10 9750 2 658376 INL5021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - OUTER KIT PACKAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mitosol ® ( mitomycin for solution ) 0 . 2 mg / vial Kit for Ophthalmic Use Manufactured for : Mobius Therapeutics , LLC 1000 Executive Parkway Suite 224 St . Louis , MO 63141 USA + 1 314 - 615 - 6930 1 - 877 - EYE - MITO ( 1 - 877 - 393 - 6486 ) Rx ONLY US Patents # 7 , 806 , 265 , # 8 , 186 , 511 , # D685 , 962 , # D685 , 963 , # 9 , 205 , 075 , # 9 , 539 , 241 and # 9 , 649 , 428 ; other international patents issued and pending .
© 2019 Mobius Therapeutics , LLC mobius therapeutics ™ A1426418 - 1 Rev . 8 / 19 NDC # 49771 - 002 - 01 Re - Order # MOB . 2 Each Mitosol ® Kit Contains : One Chemotherapy Waste Bag One Instructions for Use One Package Insert One Inner Tray Two Patient Chart Labels Inner Tray Contains : One Vial Containing 0 . 2 mg mitomycin ( inside protective foam pouch ) One 1 mL Syringe ( Sterile Water for Injection ) with Safety Connector One Plunger Rod One Vial Adaptor with Spike ( inside protective foam pouch ) One 1 mL TB Syringe , Luer Lock One Sponge Container Containing : Six 3 mm Absorbent Sponges Six 6 mm Absorbent Sponges Six Half Moon Sponges One Instrument Wedge Sponge One Label , MMC Contents STERILE in unopened undamaged package .
Storage : Store kits at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
HD CAUTION : HAZARDOUS DRUG OBSERVE SPECIAL HANDLING , ADMINISTRATION AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS [ MULTIMEDIA ]
