NDC 79043 - 180 - 08 Rx Only Topical Suspension in a vehicle containing Green Tea and Aloe FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE SHAKE WELL Net Wt .
( 8 oz ) 237 mL Active ingredients : Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % and Sulfur 4 . 25 % Indications : For the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
Directions : Shake Well before using .
Apply once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off sooner or using less often .
See enclosed package insert for full prescribing information .
Warnings : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Manufactured in U . S . A Scite Pharma , LLC Canton , MS 39046 Rev . 01 / 2021 Clenia Plus ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % - Sulfur 4 . 25 % Suspension ) For External Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic use .
Rx Only DESCRIPTION Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains 90 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 42 . 5 mg of sulfur in vehicle consisting of aloe vera gel , ammonium lauryl sulfate , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , glycerin , glyceryl stearate SE , green tea extract , guar gum , methylparaben , PEG 100 stearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of this product when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data is available but the clinical significance is unknown .
Organisms that show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS Clenia Plus ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % - Sulfur 4 . 25 % Suspension ) is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clenia Plus is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Clenia Plus is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug - induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could potentially occur , and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for patients Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
The use of this product should also be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever or sores in the mouth develop .
Drug Interactions This product is incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Chromosomal nondisjunction has been reported in the yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , following application of sodium sulfacetamide .
The significance of this finding to the topical use of sodium sulfacetamide in the human is unknown .
PREGNANCY Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Clenia Plus .
It is not known whether Clenia Plus can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Clenia Plus should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in the human milk .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Clenia Plus is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome was reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS or obtain product information , contact Scite Pharma , LLC at 1 - 866 - 633 - 9033 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The oral LD 50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16 . 5 g / kg .
In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started immediately .
Manifestations Overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting .
Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria , crystalluria and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract .
For treatment , contact your local Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) , or your doctor .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE WELL before use .
Cleanse affected areas .
Apply Clenia Plus once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If skin dryness occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off Clenia Plus sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED Clenia Plus ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % - Sulfur 4 . 25 % Suspension ) is available in 8 fl oz ( 237 mL ) bottles , NDC 79043 - 180 - 08 and 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) samples , NDC 79043 - 180 - 99 .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : Scite Pharma , LLC Canton , MS 39046 Manufactured in U . S . A Rev . 01 / 2021 All prescriptions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 237 mL Bottle Label NDC 79043 - 180 - 08 Rx Only Clenia ™ PLUS ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % Sulfur 4 . 25 % Suspension ) Topical Suspension in a vehicle containing Green Tea and Aloe FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE SHAKE WELL Net Wt .
( 8 oz ) 237 mL scite PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
