Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzocaine 20 % w / v Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain associated with • minor dental procedures • sore mouth and throat • minor injury of the gums • canker sores • minor irritation of the mouth or gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances .
Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy .
For external use only Allergy alert Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics , PABA compounds , or sunscreen .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning if sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persist or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use • if taking sulfonamides • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • avoid contact with eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
in case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply a thin film to affected area .
Allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by your dentist or doctor .
• Children between 2 and 12 years of age : Should be supervised in the use of this product .
• Children under 2 years of age : Do not use .
Other information • Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 3 mg per gram • Do not use if tamper - evident seal is broken • Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients aspartame , D & C red no . 28 , ethyl alcohol , FD & C red no . 40 , glycerin , natural and artificial flavors , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
800 . 552 . 5512 Manufactured by Ultradent Products , Inc . 505 West Ultradent Drive ( 10200 South ) , South Jordan , UT 84095 Ultracare ® ORAL ANESTHETIC GEL Description : Ultracare is a 20 % w / v ( 17 . 9 % ) benzocaine oral anesthetic gel preparation in a water - soluble glycol base .
Ultracare is designed for rapid onset ( 10 - 30 seconds ) .
Anesthesia usually lasts 8 - 10 minutes .
Ultracare is NOT for injection .
Uses : For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain , associated with : • Minor dental procedures • Sore mouth and throat • Minor injury of the gums • Canker sores • Minor irritation of the mouth or gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings : Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy .
For external use only Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics , PABA compounds , or sunscreen .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persist or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Procedure : • 1 .
Preloaded 1 . 2 ml syringes : • a . Remove luer lock cap from syringe .
• b . Attach a Blue Micro ® 20 - gauge Tip or 5 mm Micro Capillary Tip securely onto syringe .
• c . Slowly express gel to the target tissue .
• d . For anesthetizing periodontal pockets : • i . Slowly apply a small amount to one quadrant at a time to the gingival margin or directly into the periodontal pockets and proceed with sub - gingival scaling .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Fig . 1 Hold plunger in palm of hand for optimum control .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Fig . 2 Deliver Ultracare from the large , no - waste IndiSpense syringe to cotton applicator , cotton roll , etc . , for placement .
• 2 .
IndiSpense ® delivery : • a . Remove cap from IndiSpense syringe .
• b . Express desired amount of anesthetic to cotton applicator ( Fig . 2 ) or into a dappen dish .
Use a clean applicator with each area application .
Re - cap the IndiSpense syringe after each use .
• c . Using a dappen dish allows for re - application with the same applicator without the risk of cross - contamination .
Re - cap the IndiSpense syringe after each use .
• 3 .
IndiSpense delivery to empty 1 . 2 ml syringe : • a . Attach a 1 . 2 ml syringe to the end of IndiSpense by turning the luer lock of the 1 . 2 ml syringe snugly onto male thread of Indispense syringe .
• b . With palm , press plunger of IndiSpense syringe gently while guiding the 1 . 2 ml plunger outward to desired fill .
• c . RE - cap the IndiSpense syringe after each use .
• d . See instruction for 1 . 2 ml syringe use .
Directions : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • Apply a thin film to affected area .
Allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by your dentist or doctor .
• Rinse and expectorate to clear the oral cavity of residual product .
• Apply a thin film to injection site ( s ) allowing the gelled cotton applicator to remain in place at least 1 minute .
• Rinse and suction the oral cavity and continue with administering local anesthetic or with dental procedure .
For anesthetizing periodontal pockets : • See instruction for 1 . 2 ml use .
Children between 2 and 12 years of age : • Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age : • Do not use Warnings and Precautions : • 1 .
For Professional use only .
• 2 .
For external use only .
• 3 .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• 4 .
Ultracare is NOT for injection .
• 5 .
Pregnancy and Lactation : Safety is not known in pregnancy / nursing women .
• 6 .
Avoid contact with eyes .
• 7 .
If applying intraorally from a syringe , verify flow on a gauze pad or mixing pad prior to applying .
If resistance is met , replace tip and re - check .
• 8 .
If an excessive amount of gel is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
• 9 .
Do not exceed maximum recommended dosage .
• 10 .
Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine — 3 mg per gram • 11 .
See state or country guidelines for proper disposal of empty jar , syringes , applicator and tips .
• 12 .
To avoid cross - contamination of the prefilled syringes , use a disposable syringe cover , re - cap , and wipe syringe with an intermediate disinfectant between uses .
If these measures are not taken , the syringes should be considered single - use .
Tips are disposable .
To avoid cross - contamination , do not re - use tips .
For immediate reorder and / or complete descriptions of Ultradent ' s product line , refer to Ultradent ' s catalog or call Toll Free : 1 - 800 - 552 - 5512 .
Outside U . S . call ( 801 ) 572 - 4200 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] All Ultradent syringes have an expiration date stamped on the side of the syringe consisting of one letter and three numbers .
The letter is a lot number used for manufacturing purposes and the three numbers are the expiration date .
The first two numbers are the month , and the third number is the last number of the year .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2018 Ultradent Products , Inc .
All Rights Reserved .
Made in U . S . A . Manufactured by Ultradent Products , Inc . 505 West Ultradent Drive , ( 10200 South ) South Jordan , UT 84095 10057 . 18 052318 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Syringe Label Ultracare ® Oral Anesthetic Gel Walterberry ® REF / UP 359 ULTRADENT PRODUCTS , INC .
1 . 01 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) IndiSpense ® Made in USA | 33325 . 15 061318 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
