WARNING : ASTHMA EXACERBATION WITH NEBULIZATION and DEPLETION OF TRACE METALS DURING THERAPY • Nebulized Zn - DTPA may be associated with asthma exacerbation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Zn - DTPA is associated with depletion of trace metals .
The risk for depletion increases when Zn - DTPA is administered over several months .
Monitor serum zinc levels , serum creatinine , BUN , electrolytes , urinalysis and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) WARNING : ASTHMA EXACERBATION WITH NEBULIZATION and DEPLETION OF TRACE METALS DURING THERAPY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Nebulized Zn - DTPA may be associated with asthma exacerbation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Zn - DTPA is associated with depletion of trace metals .
The risk for depletion increases when Zn - DTPA is administered over several months .
Monitor serum zinc levels , serum creatinine , BUN , electrolytes , urinalysis and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zn - DTPA is indicated for treatment of individuals with known or suspected internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium to increase the rates of elimination .
Pentetate zinc trisodium injection is a radiomitigation chelator indicated for treatment of individuals with known or suspected internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium to increase the rates of elimination .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the first 24 hours .
Administer Ca - DTPA , if available , as the initial dose .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) If Ca - DTPA is not available during the first 24 hours , • in adults and adolescents , administer intravenously a single 1 . 0 gram Zn - DTPA initial dose .
( 2 . 1 ) • in children less than 12 years of age , administer intravenously a single 14 mg / kg Zn - DTPA initial dose , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram .
( 2 . 1 ) After the first 24 hours , continue chelation therapy with Zn - DTPA : • in adults and adolescents , administer intravenously 1 . 0 gram Zn - DTPA once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • in children less than 12 years of age , administer intravenously 14 mg / kg Zn - DTPA once daily , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram daily .
( 2 . 1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for dose ( 2 . 1 ) and nebulized chelation therapy .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dose Administer Ca - DTPA as the initial dose during the first 24 hours after internal contamination .
Ca - DTPA is more effective than Zn - DTPA during this time period ( see Ca - DTPA labeling ) .
If Ca - DTPA is not available , use Zn - DTPA as initial therapy .
On the next day , if additional chelation therapy is indicated , begin daily treatment with Zn - DTPA .
If Zn - DTPA is not available , chelation therapy may continue with Ca - DTPA and concomitant mineral supplements containing zinc should be given ( see Ca - DTPA labeling ) .
Do not administer more than one dose per 24 hour period .
If Ca - DTPA is not available during the first 24 hours : • in adults and adolescents , administer intravenously a single 1 . 0 gram initial dose of Zn - DTPA .
• in children less than 12 years of age , administer intravenously a single 14 mg / kg initial dose of Zn - DTPA , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram .
After the first 24 hours , continue chelation therapy with Zn - DTPA : • in adults and adolescents , administer intravenously 1 . 0 gram Zn - DTPA once daily .
• in children less than 12 years of age , administer intravenously 14 mg / kg Zn - DTPA once daily , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram daily .
Renally Impaired Patients No dose adjustment is needed .
However , renal impairment may reduce the rate at which chelators remove radiocontaminants from the body .
In heavily contaminated patients with renal impairment , dialysis may be used to increase the rate of elimination .
High efficiency high flux dialysis is recommended .
Because dialysis fluid will become radioactive , radiation precautions must be taken to protect personnel , other patients , and the general public .
2 . 2 General Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the first 24 hours after internal contamination .
Start chelation treatment as soon as possible after suspected or known internal contamination .
When treatment cannot be started right away , give chelation treatment as soon as it becomes available .
Chelation treatment is still effective even after time has elapsed following internal contamination .
The chelating effects of Zn - DTPA are greatest when the radiocontaminants are still circulating or are in interstitial fluids .
The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time following internal contamination as the radiocontaminants become sequestered in liver and bone .
If internal contamination with radiocontaminants other than plutonium , americium , or curium , or unknown radiocontaminants is suspected , additional therapies may be needed ( e . g . , Prussian blue , potassium iodide ) .
2 . 3 Methods of Administration Use intravenous administration of Zn - DTPA if the route of internal contamination is not known or if multiple routes of internal contamination are likely .
Administer Zn - DTPA solution ( 1 gram in 5 mL ) either with a slow intravenous push over a period of 3 - 4 minutes or by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes diluted in 100 - 250 mL of 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) , Ringers Lactate , or Normal Saline .
In individuals whose internal contamination is only by inhalation , Zn - DTPA can be administered by nebulized inhalation as an alternative route of administration .
Dilute Zn - DTPA for nebulization at a 1 : 1 ratio with sterile water or saline .
After nebulization , encourage patients to avoid swallowing any expectorant .
Some individuals may experience respiratory adverse events after inhalation therapy .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] The safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration have not been established in the pediatric population .
The safety and effectiveness of the intramuscular route of injection have not been established .
2 . 4 Monitoring When possible , obtain baseline blood and urine samples ( CBC with differential , BUN , serum chemistries and electrolytes , urinalysis and blood and urine radioassays ) before initiating treatment .
To establish an elimination curve , obtain a quantitative baseline estimate of the total internalized transuranium element ( s ) and measures of elimination of radioactivity by appropriate whole - body counting , by bioassay ( e . g . , biodosimetry ) , or fecal / urine sample whenever possible .
During Treatment • Measure the radioactivity in blood , urine , and fecal samples weekly to monitor the radioactive contaminant elimination rate .
• Monitor CBC with differential , BUN , serum creatinine and electrolytes , and urinalysis measurements .
• Record any adverse events from Zn - DTPA .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1000 mg / 5 mL single - use ampoules .
1000 mg / 5 mL single - use ampoules .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Nebulized chelation therapy may be associated with exacerbation of asthma .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of asthma exacerbation when administering Zn - DTPA by the inhalation route .
( 5 . 1 ) • Zn - DTPA is associated with depletion of endogenous trace metals ( e . g . , zinc , magnesium , manganese ) .
( 5 . 2 ) • Take appropriate safety measures to minimize contamination of care - takers by contaminated body fluids .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Asthma Exacerbation Nebulized chelation therapy is associated with asthma exacerbation .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of asthma exacerbation when administering Zn - DTPA by the inhalation route .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] 5 . 2 Depletion of Body Trace Mineral Stores Zn - DTPA treatment may lead to depletion of body stores of endogenous metals ( e . g . magnesium , manganese ) .
The risk for depletion increases when Zn - DTPA is administered over several months .
Monitor serum zinc levels , electrolytes and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
Give mineral or vitamin plus mineral supplements as appropriate .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] 5 . 3 Risks to Care - takers Radioactive metals are known to be excreted in the urine , feces , and breast milk .
In individuals with recent internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium , Zn - DTPA treatment increases excretion of radioactivity in the urine .
Take appropriate safety measures to minimize contamination of others .
[ See Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In the U . S . Registry , a total of 646 individuals received at least one dose of either Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA .
Of these , 62 received Zn - DTPA by one or more routes of administration .
Forty - eight individuals were dosed by intravenous administration , 18 by inhalation and 8 by other or unknown routes of administration .
Of the individuals that received Zn - DTPA , 23 / 62 ( 37 % ) received one dose and 8 ( 13 % ) received two doses .
The remaining 31 individuals received three or more doses .
The largest number of Zn - DTPA doses to a single individual was 574 doses delivered over 3 . 5 years .
Overall , the presence or absence of adverse events was recorded in 310 / 646 individuals .
Of these 19 ( 6 . 1 % ) individuals reported at least one adverse event .
The total number of recorded adverse events was 20 .
Of the 20 adverse events , 1 individual treated with Zn - DTPA reported headache , lightheadedness , and pelvic pain .
Two individuals experienced cough and / or wheezing with nebulized Ca - DTPA therapy however there was no report of such events with nebulized Zn - DTPA .
There is limited experience with Zn - DTPA .
Nebulized chelation therapy may be associated with exacerbation of asthma .
Headache , light headedness , and pelvic pain have been reported .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the hameln Pharmacovigilance Department at + 44 ( 0 ) 7706 210 133 or drugsafety @ hameln . co . uk or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Adequate and well - controlled drug - drug interaction studies in humans were not identified in the literature .
When an individual is contaminated with multiple radiocontaminants , or when the radiocontaminants are unknown , additional therapies may be needed ( e . g . , Prussian blue , potassium iodide ) .
Adequate and well - controlled drug - drug interaction studies in humans were not identified in the literature .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Women with known or suspected internal contamination with radiocontaminants should not breast feed , whether or not they are receiving chelation therapy .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of intravenous Zn - DTPA were extrapolated from adults .
Safety and effectiveness of nebulized route of administration have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Zn - DTPA use in pregnant women .
Chelation treatment of pregnant women should begin and continue with Zn - DTPA .
Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant mice at doses up to 31 times ( 11 . 5 mmol / kg ) the recommended daily human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Zn - DTPA .
There was a slight reduction in the average birth weight .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing mothers It is not known whether Zn - DTPA is excreted in human milk .
Radiocontaminants are known to be excreted in breast milk .
Women with known or suspected internal contamination with radiocontaminants should not breast feed , whether or not they are receiving chelation therapy .
Precautions should be taken when discarding breast milk .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 8 . 4 Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of Zn - DTPA were established in the adult population and efficacy was extrapolated to the pediatric population for the intravenous route based on the comparability of pathophysiologic mechanisms .
The dose is based on body size adjustment for an intravenous drug that is renally cleared [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration have not been established in the pediatric population .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose with Zn - DTPA has not been reported .
11 DESCRIPTION Pentetate zinc trisodium injection contains the sodium salt of zinc diethylenetriaminepentaacetate .
Pentetate zinc trisodium is also known as trisodium zinc diethylenetriaminepentaacetate and is commonly referred to as Zn - DTPA .
It has a molecular formula of Na3ZnC14H18N3O10 and a molecular weight of 522 . 7 Daltons .
It is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zn - DTPA is supplied as a clear , colorless , hyperosmolar ( 1260 mOsmol / kg ) solution in a colorless ampoule containing 5 mL .
The ampoule contents are sterile , non - pyrogenic and suitable for intravenous administration .
Each mL of solution contains the equivalent of 200 mg pentetate zinc trisodium ( obtained from 150 . 51 mg pentetic acid , 31 . 14 mg zinc oxide and NaOH ) and water for injection , USP .
The pH of the solution is adjusted with NaOH and is between 6 . 5 - 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zn - DTPA forms stable chelates with metal ions by exchanging zinc for a metal of greater binding capacity .
The radioactive chelates are then excreted by glomerular filtration into the urine .
In animal studies , Zn - DTPA forms less stable chelates with uranium and neptunium in vivo resulting in deposition of these elements in tissues including the bone .
Zn - DTPA treatments are not expected to be effective for uranium and neptunium .
Radioactive iodine is not bound by DTPA .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a study of rodents internally contaminated with plutonium , the rate of plutonium elimination was measured after treatment with Ca - DTPA and Zn - DTPA given intravenously as a single dose of 10 to 1 , 000 micromol / kg ( 0 . 54 - 54 × maximum human dose , MHD ) .
When treated within one hour of internal contamination , Ca - DTPA resulted in about a 10 fold higher rate of elimination of plutonium in the urine as compared to Zn - DTPA .
The chelating capacity of Ca - DTPA is greatest immediately and up to approximately 24 hours after internal contamination when the radiocontaminant is still circulating and readily available for chelation .
After the first dose of Ca - DTPA , maintenance treatment with either Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA resulted in similar rates of elimination of radioactivity .
However , at comparable doses , Zn - DTPA had less toxicity ( e . g . , less depletion of trace metals , lower rate of mortality , the absence of kidney and liver vacuolization , and absence of small bowel hemorrhagic lesions ) .
In another study , rodents contaminated with aerosolized plutonium and americium were treated with Ca - DTPA and Zn - DTPA .
The treatment schedule involved inhalation of Ca - DTPA 2 micromol / kg ( 0 . 11 MHD ) 30 minutes after contamination followed by inhalation of Zn - DTPA 2 micromol / kg at approximately 6 hours , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 6 days , then twice weekly to day 26 or day 27 .
The treatment regime reduced the lung deposit of plutonium and americium to 1 - 2 % of that in untreated animals .
Systemic deposit in liver and skeleton were reduced by half .
Literature and U . S . Registry data in humans indicate that intravenous administration of Zn - DTPA forms chelates with radioactive contaminants found in the circulation , interstitial fluid , and tissues .
When Zn - DTPA is administered by inhalation , it can chelate transuranium elements .
Expectoration is expected to decrease the amount of radioactive contaminant available for systemic absorption .
The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time after internal contamination because the transuranium elements become incorporated into the tissues .
Give chelation treatment as soon as possible after known or suspected internal contamination with transuranium elements has occurred .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma retention and urinary excretion data were obtained in 2 subjects that received 750 kBq of 14 C - DTPA .
As shown in Figure 1 , the radiolabeled DTPA was rapidly distributed throughout the extracellular fluid space and was cleared by glomerular filtration .
The plasma retention up to 7 hours post dosing was expressed by the sum of three exponential components with average half lives of 1 . 4 min , 14 . 5 min , and 94 . 4 min .
The level of activity in the plasma was below the limit of detection 24 hours after injection .
During the study , no detectable activity was exhaled or excreted in the feces .
By 24 hours , cumulative urinary excretion was more than 99 % of the injected dose .
Figure 1 : Percent of 14 C - DTPA Distribution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Absorption Zn - DTPA is poorly absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract .
In animal studies , after oral administration , absorption was approximately 5 % .
In a U . S . Registry of 18 patients who received a single inhaled or intravenous dose of 1 gram , urine data indicate that the inhaled product was absorbed and resulted in a comparable elimination of the radiocontaminant .
One study of 2 human subjects that received Ca - DTPA with 14 C - DTPA by inhalation revealed approximately 20 % absorption from the lungs .
Human or animal bioavailability comparisons for Zn - DTPA are not available after administration by inhalation and intravenous injection .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] Distribution Following intravenous administration , Zn - DTPA is rapidly distributed throughout the extracellular fluid space .
No significant amount of Zn - DTPA penetrates into erythrocytes or other cells .
No accumulation of Zn - DTPA in specific organs has been observed .
There is little or no binding of the chelating agent by the renal parenchyma .
Metabolism Zn - DTPA undergoes a minimal amount of metabolic change in the body .
Adverse Metabolic Effects Zn - DTPA results in minimal depletion of magnesium and manganese .
Elimination Zn - DTPA is cleared from the plasma in the first few hours after dosing through urinary excretion by glomerular filtration .
Renal tubular excretion has not been documented .
In stool samples , only a very small amount of radioactivity ( < 3 % ) was detected .
Renal Impaired and / or Compromised Liver Function Patients Adequate and well - controlled pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies in renally impaired and / or hepatically impaired patients were not identified in the literature .
Both Zn - DTPA and its radioactive chelates are excreted by glomerular filtration .
Impaired renal function may decrease their rates of elimination and increase the serum half - life of Zn - DTPA .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Zn - DTPA to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis and impairment of fertility have not been performed .
Data for Zn - DTPA effects on spermatogenesis are not available .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] 14 CLINICAL STUDIES All clinical data has come from the treatment of individuals who were accidentally contaminated .
Observational data were maintained in a U . S . Registry of individuals with internal radiation contamination primarily from acute occupational contamination with plutonium , americium and curium .
In 286 individuals , bioassays were available to measure urinary radioactivity elimination after chelation therapy .
Of these 286 individuals , 18 had matched pre - and post - chelator urine radioactivity bioassay results available .
The majority of these individuals received Ca - DTPA as the initial component to their chelation therapy .
When multiple chelator doses were administered over days , the standard of practice was to switch therapy to Zn - DTPA following an initial dose of Ca - DTPA .
Although both chelators were considered equipotent 24 hours following internal contamination , Zn - DTPA was considered less toxic .
In one individual who received 3 doses , 1 gram each , by nebulization ( 1 : 1 Zn - DTPA and saline ) followed by 6 intravenous doses , the urinary excretion of plutonium after the first nebulized dose was increased by a factor of 45 .
After initial treatment with Ca - DTPA , maintenance treatment was continued with daily 1 gram Zn - DTPA doses administered over a period of days , months or years , depending on the extent of internal contamination and individual response to therapy .
Treatment was generally continued until the excretion enhancement factor ( EEF ) approached 1 .
The longest treatment duration was 3 . 5 years .
Similar increases in urinary radioactivity elimination were supported by data from the remaining 268 individuals in the U . S . Registry and from the literature .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Zn - DTPA is supplied as a sterile solution in 5 mL single - use clear glass ampoules at a concentration of 200 mg / mL for intravenous use .
Each ampoule contains the equivalent of 1000 mg of pentetate zinc trisodium .
NDC 70651 - 002 - 03 : 5 mL single - dose ampoules , package of 10 16 . 2 Storage Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
16 . 3 Handling Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The product may be filtered using a sterile filter if particles are seen subsequent to opening of the ampoule .
OPC ampoule : to open , turn so that the point faces upward and break off the neck with a downward movement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients to : • drink plenty of fluids and void frequently to promote dilution of the radioactive chelate in the urine and minimize radiation exposure directly to the bladder .
• use a toilet instead of a urinal , and flush several times after each use .
• clean up spilled urine or feces completely and wash hands thoroughly .
Wash clothing or linens separately if blood or urine comes in contact .
• dispose of any expectorant carefully .
Avoid swallowing the expectorant if possible .
IInstruct parents and child - care givers to take extra precaution in handling the urine , feces , and expectorants of children to avoid any additional exposure to either the care - giver or to the child .
Instruct nursing mothers to take extra precaution in disposing of breast milk .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] 18 COLLECTION OF PATIENT TREATMENT DATA To develop long - term response data and information on the risk of developing late malignancy , detailed information on patient treatment should be provided to the manufacturer ( see Patient Treatment Data Form ) .
To obtain additional forms , please use the enclosed form as a template or see the following website : www . zn - dtpa . com .
These data should include a record of the radioactive body burden and bioassay results at defined time intervals , a description of measurement methods to facilitate analysis of data , and adverse events .
Questions regarding the use of Zn - DTPA for the treatment of internal contamination with transuranium elements may be referred to : hameln pharmaceuticals ltd Nexus Gloucester Business Park Gloucester , GL3 4 AG United Kingdom Tel : + 44 / 1452 / 621661 Fax : + 44 / 1452 / 632732 e - mail : drugsafety @ hameln . co . uk Contact person : Richard Wysocki Phone : + 44 / 1452 / 621661 Fax : + 44 / 1452 / 632732 Email : r . wysocki @ hameln . co . uk Revised : 10 / 2016 44640 / 17 / 16 Zn - DTPA Patient treatment Data Send to : hameln pharmaceuticals ltd , Nexus , Gloucester Business Park , Gloucester , GL3 4 AG , United Kingdom [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Ampoule Package Pentetate zinc trisodium injection 1000 mg 10 x 5 mL Single - Dose Ampoules For intravenous or inhalation use only .
hameln 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
