[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Purpose Lidocaine Hydrochloride 5 % Topical Anesthetic Tetracaine Hydrochloride 1 % Topical Anesthetic Benzocaine 12 % Topical Anesthetic Uses : External Use Only .
Do Not Swallow .
Temporarily supplies pain relief to either intact or open skin due to pain sensitive procedures .
WARNINGS - Keep out reach of children Do not use if you have • seizures or liver disease • if pregnant or breast feeding • a known allergy or sensitivity to any of the components of this product .
If sensitivity occurs , discontinue use , and seek medical attention .
If condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than seven days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a doctor .
Do not use in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
Avoid contact with eyes , in case of accidental contact with eyes , rinse immediately with copious amounts of eyewash and seek treatment by an eye care specialist .
If accidentally swallowed , get medical help immediately .
When using this product you may notice temporary blanching or redness of the skin where liquid is applied .
Directions : Sensitivity test advised prior to use .
Apply to intact skin to clean prior to application of predeadener .
Use to wipe off predeadener .
During procedure , swipe across skin and wait for numbness to develop ( 90 seconds ) .
Not appropriate for eyeliner .
You may reapply as necessary to continue anesthesia .
Discontinue use if sensitivity occurs .
Remove product before continuing with procedure .
Inactive Ingredients : Propylene Glycol , Ethoxydiglycol , Tetrasodium EDTA .
Other information : Store in a cool dark place or refrigerate .
Discard after expiration date .
Questions ?
Contact distributor on product label .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SUPERIOR SJ3 SuperJuice 3 anesthetic for use during a pain sensitive procedure 4 oz .
Distributed by : DERMAL SOURCE Portland , OR 97232 www . dermalsource . com 1 - 866 - 568 - 3223 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
