1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sancuso ® is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in adults receiving moderately and / or highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimens of up to 5 consecutive days duration .
Sancuso is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in adults receiving moderately and / or highly emetogenic chemotherapy for up to 5 consecutive days .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is a single transdermal system applied to the upper outer arm a minimum of 24 hours , up to a maximum of 48 hours , before chemotherapy .
The transdermal system should be worn at minimum , 24 hours after chemotherapy is finished .
The transdermal system can be worn for up to 7 days .
The recommended dosage is a single transdermal system applied to the upper outer arm a minimum of 24 hours , up to a maximum of 48 hours , before chemotherapy .
The transdermal system should be worn at minimum , 24 hours after chemotherapy is finished .
The transdermal system can be worn for up to 7 days .
( 2 ) Application and Removal Instructions • Each transdermal system releases 3 . 1 mg of granisetron per 24 hours for up to 7 days .
• Each transdermal system is packed in a pouch and should be applied directly after the pouch has been opened .
• Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• Do not cut the transdermal system .
• Open the pouch and apply the transdermal system to clean , dry , nearly hairless , intact healthy skin on the upper outer arm .
• Do not place Sancuso transdermal system on skin that is red , irritated , or damaged .
• Do not apply a heat pad or heat lamp over or in vicinity of the transdermal system and avoid extended exposure to heat [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Cover the application site of the transdermal system with clothing , if there is a risk of exposure to direct natural or artificial sunlight throughout the period of wear and for 10 days following its removal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• After the transdermal system is applied , wash hands thoroughly .
• Remove the transdermal system by peeling off gently from the skin .
• Upon removal , fold the transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in the household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
• Sancuso contains granisetron .
Do not use other granisetron - containing products with Sancuso .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Transdermal System : a 52 cm2 thin , translucent , rectangular - shaped transdermal system with rounded corners imprinted on one side with " Granisetron 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours " .
The transdermal system releases 3 . 1 mg of granisetron per 24 hours for up to 7 days .
Transdermal System : 3 . 1 mg per 24 hours .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sancuso is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to granisetron or to any of the components of the transdermal system [ see Description ( 10 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to granisetron or to any of the components of the transdermal system ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Granisetron may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention ; consider before use in patients with abdominal surgery .
Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs .
If such symptoms occur , discontinue Sancuso and initiate supportive treatment .
If concomitant use of Sancuso with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , patients should be aware of a potential increased risk of serotonin syndrome .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • Mild application site reactions have occurred ; remove Sancuso transdermal system if severe reactions or a generalized skin reaction occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Avoid exposing Sancuso transdermal system and surrounding area to direct external heat sources , such as heating pads ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Avoid direct exposure of application site to natural or artificial sunlight , including sunlamps , by covering with clothing throughout the period of wear and for 10 days after removal .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distention Sancuso may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention .
This should be particularly considered before use of Sancuso in patients who have had recent abdominal surgery .
Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of Sancuso and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue Sancuso and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if Sancuso is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 3 Skin Reactions In clinical trials with Sancuso , application site reactions were reported that were generally mild in intensity and did not lead to discontinuation of use .
The incidence of reactions was comparable with placebo .
If severe reactions , or a generalized skin reaction occur ( e . g . , allergic rash , including erythematous , macular , papular rash or pruritus ) , remove the Sancuso transdermal system .
5 . 4 Increased Drug Exposure with Use of External Heat Sources Prolonged exposure to heat results in increasing plasma concentrations of granisetron during the period of heat exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Do not apply a heat pad or heat lamp over or in the vicinity of the Sancuso transdermal system and avoid extended exposure to heat [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Phototoxicity with Ultraviolet Light Exposure Granisetron may be affected by direct natural or artificial sunlight , including sunlamps .
An in vitro study using Chinese hamster ovary cells suggests that granisetron has the potential for photogenotoxicity [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 3 ) ] .
To avoid a potential skin reaction , advise patients to cover the application site of the transdermal system with clothing if there is a risk of exposure to direct natural or artificial sunlight throughout the period of wear and for 10 days following its removal .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are serious or otherwise clinically significant adverse reactions reported in other sections of labeling : • Progressive ileus and gastric distention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Skin reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Increased drug exposure with use of external heat sources [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Phototoxicity with ultraviolet light exposure [ se Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reaction ( ≥ 3 % ) is constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Kyowa Kirin , Inc . at 1 - 800 - SANCUSO ( 1 - 800 - 726 - 2876 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of Sancuso was evaluated in a total of 404 patients undergoing chemotherapy who participated in two double - blind , comparator studies with transdermal system treatment durations of up to 7 days .
The control groups included a total of 406 patients who received a daily dose of 2 mg oral granisetron , for 1 to 5 days .
Adverse reactions occurred in 9 % ( 35 / 404 ) of patients receiving Sancuso and 7 % ( 29 / 406 ) of patients receiving oral granisetron .
The most common adverse reaction was constipation that occurred in 5 % of patients in the Sancuso group and 3 % of patients in the oral granisetron group .
Table 1 lists the adverse reactions that occurred in at least 3 % of patients treated with Sancuso or oral granisetron .
Table 1 : Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Double - Blind , Active Comparator Controlled Studies in Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy ( ≥ 3 % in either group ) Body System Preferred Term Sancuso Transdermal System N = 404 ( % ) Oral granisetron N = 406 ( % ) Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 5 3 Nervous system disorders Headache 1 3 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , such as granisetron , may be associated with arrhythmias or ECG abnormalities .
Three ECGs were performed on 588 patients in a randomized , parallel group , double - blind , double - dummy study : at baseline before treatment , the first day of chemotherapy , and 5 to 7 days after starting chemotherapy .
QTcF prolongation greater than 450 milliseconds was seen in a total of 11 ( 1 . 9 % ) patients after receiving granisetron , 8 ( 2 . 7 % ) on oral granisetron , and 3 ( 1 . 1 % ) on the transdermal system .
No new QTcF prolongation greater than 480 milliseconds was observed in any patient in this study .
No arrhythmias were detected in this study .
Adverse reactions reported in clinical trials with other formulations of granisetron include the following : Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , diarrhea , constipation , elevation of ALT and AST levels , nausea and vomiting Cardiovascular : hypertension , hypotension , angina pectoris , atrial fibrillation and syncope have been observed rarely Central Nervous System : dizziness , insomnia , headache , anxiety , somnolence and asthenia Hypersensitivity : rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . anaphylaxis , shortness of breath , hypotension , urticaria ) have been reported Other : fever ; events often associated with chemotherapy have also been reported : leucopenia , decreased appetite , anemia , alopecia , thrombocytopenia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Sancuso .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Application site reactions ( pain , pruritus , erythema , rash , irritation , vesicles , burn , discoloration , urticaria ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] ; transdermal system non - adhesion .
Cardiac Disorders : bradycardia , chest pain , palpitations , sick sinus syndrome 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue Sancuso and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Concomitant Use Medications There have been no definitive drug - drug interaction studies to examine pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction with other drugs .
However , in humans , granisetron hydrochloride injection has been safely administered with drugs representing benzodiazepines , neuroleptics and anti - ulcer medications commonly prescribed with antiemetic treatments .
Granisetron hydrochloride injection also does not appear to interact with emetogenic cancer therapies .
In agreement with these data , no clinically relevant drug interactions have been reported in clinical studies with Sancuso .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available published data and postmarketing reports with granisetron use in pregnant women have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In a published ex vivo human placental perfusion model , no transplacental passage of granisetron was detected at a concentration ( 5 ng / mL ) that mimics the plasma concentration achieved following transdermal application of Sancuso .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed in pregnant rats and rabbits administered granisetron hydrochloride during organogenesis at intravenous doses up to 24 times and 16 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose delivered by the Sancuso transdermal system , based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed in pregnant rats and rabbits administered granisetron hydrochloride at intravenous doses up to 24 times and 16 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose delivered by the Sancuso transdermal system , based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies with granisetron hydrochloride have been performed in pregnant rats at intravenous doses up to 9 mg / kg / day ( 54 mg / m2 / day , about 24 times the recommended human dose delivered by the Sancuso transdermal system , based on body surface area ) and oral doses up to 125 mg / kg / day ( 750 mg / m2 / day , about 326 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) .
Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rabbits at intravenous doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( 36 mg / m2 / day , about 16 times the human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) and at oral doses up to 32 mg / kg / day ( 384 mg / m2 / day , about 167 times the human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) .
These studies did not reveal any harm to the fetus due to granisetron .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of granisetron in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Sancuso and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Sancuso or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Sancuso have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Sancuso did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , cautious treatment selection for an elderly patient is prudent because of the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment or Hepatic Impairment Although no studies have been performed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of Sancuso in patients with renal or hepatic impairment , pharmacokinetic information is available for intravenous granisetron [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is recommended for renal or hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for granisetron overdosage .
In the case of overdosage , symptomatic treatment should be given .
11 DESCRIPTION Sancuso contains granisetron , which is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist .
Chemically it is 1 - methyl - N - [ ( 1 R , 3 r , 5 S ) - 9 - methyl - 9 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 ] non - 3 - yl ] - 1 H - indazole - 3 - carboxamide with a molecular weight of 312 . 4 .
Its empirical formula is C18H24N4O , while its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Granisetron Granisetron is a white to off - white solid that is insoluble in water .
The inactive ingredients are acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer , polyester , titanium dioxide , polyamide resin and polyethylene wax .
Sancuso is a 52 cm2 thin , translucent , matrix - type transdermal system that is rectangular - shaped with rounded corners , consisting of a backing ( polyester ) , the drug matrix ( acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer ) and a release liner ( siliconized polyester ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Granisetron is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with little or no affinity for other serotonin receptors , including 5 - HT1 , 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT1B / C , 5 - HT2 ; for alpha1 - , alpha2 - , or beta - adrenoreceptors ; for dopamine - D2 ; or for histamine - H1 ; benzodiazepine ; picrotoxin or opioid receptors .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are located peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
During chemotherapy that induces vomiting , mucosal enterochromaffin cells release serotonin , which stimulates 5 - HT3 receptors .
This evokes vagal afferent discharge , inducing vomiting .
Animal studies demonstrate that , in binding to 5 - HT3 receptors , granisetron blocks serotonin stimulation and subsequent vomiting after emetogenic stimuli such as cisplatin .
In the ferret animal model , a single granisetron injection prevented vomiting due to high - dose cisplatin or arrested vomiting within 5 to 30 seconds .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of granisetron on QTc prolongation was evaluated in a randomized , single - blind , positive ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) - and placebo controlled parallel study in healthy subjects .
A total of 120 subjects were administered Sancuso transdermal system ( n = 60 ) or intravenous granisetron ( 10 mcg / kg over 30 seconds ; n = 60 ) .
In a study with demonstrated ability to detect small effects , the upper bound of the 90 % confidence interval for the largest placebo adjusted , baseline corrected QTc based on Fridericia correction method ( QTcF ) for Sancuso was below 10 ms . This study suggests that Sancuso does not have significant effects on QT prolongation .
No evidence of an effect on plasma prolactin or aldosterone concentrations has been found in studies using granisetron .
The effect on oro - cecal transit time following application of Sancuso has not been studied .
Granisetron hydrochloride injection exhibited no effect on oro - cecal transit time in healthy subjects given a single intravenous infusion of 50 mcg / kg or 200 mcg / kg .
Single and multiple oral doses of granisetron hydrochloride slowed colonic transit in healthy subjects .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Granisetron crosses intact skin into the systemic circulation by a passive diffusion process .
Following a 7 - day application of Sancuso transdermal system in 24 healthy subjects , high inter - subject variability in systemic exposure was observed .
Maximal concentration was reached at approximately 48 hours ( range : 24 - 168 hours ) following application .
Mean Cmax was 5 ng / mL ( CV : 170 % ) and mean AUC0 - 168 hr was 527 ng - hr / mL ( CV : 173 % ) .
Mean Plasma Concentration of Granisetron ( mean ± SD ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Based on the measure of residual content of the transdermal system after removal , approximately 66 % ( SD : ± 10 . 9 ) of granisetron is delivered following transdermal system application for 7 days .
Following consecutive application of two Sancuso transdermal systems , each for seven days , granisetron plasma concentrations were maintained over the study period with evidence of minimal accumulation .
The mean plasma concentration at 24 hours after the second transdermal system application was 1 . 5 - fold higher due to residual granisetron from the first transdermal system .
As the plasma concentration increased after the second transdermal system application , the difference decreased and the mean plasma concentration at 48 hours was 1 . 3 - fold higher after application of the second transdermal system compared to that after application of the first transdermal system .
In a study designed to assess the effect of heat on the transdermal delivery of granisetron from Sancuso in healthy subjects , a heat pad generating an average temperature of 42 ° C ( 107 . 6 ° F ) was applied over the transdermal system for 4 hours each day over the 5 day period of wear .
The application of the heat pad was associated with an increase in plasma granisetron concentrations during the period of heat pad application .
The elevated plasma concentration declined after removal of the heat pad .
Mean Cmax with intermittent heat exposure was 6 % higher than without heat .
Mean partial AUCs over 6 hours with 4 hour of heat application ( AUC0 - 6 , AUC24 - 30 , and AUC48 - 54 ) were 4 . 9 , 1 . 4 , and 1 . 1 fold higher , respectively , with heat pad than without heat pad [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution Plasma protein binding is approximately 65 % .
Granisetron distributes freely between plasma and red blood cells .
Elimination Metabolism Granisetron metabolism involves N - demethylation and aromatic ring oxidation followed by conjugation .
In vitro liver microsomal studies show that granisetron ' s major route of metabolism is inhibited by ketoconazole , suggestive of metabolism mediated by the cytochrome P - 450 3 A subfamily .
Animal studies suggest that some of the metabolites may also have 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity .
Excretion Clearance is predominantly by hepatic metabolism .
Based on a study with intravenous injection , approximately 12 % of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine of healthy subjects in 48 hours .
The remainder of the dose is excreted as metabolites , 49 % in the urine , and 34 % in the feces .
Use in Specific Populations Geriatric Patients Following application of Sancuso transdermal system in healthy subjects , mean AUC0 - z , Cmax , and Cavg were 17 % , 15 % , and 16 % higher , respectively in male and female elderly subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) compared to younger subjects ( aged 18 - 45 years inclusive ) .
These pharmacokinetic parameters were largely overlapped between the two age groups with high variability ( CV : > 50 % ) .
Following a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride in elderly subjects ( mean age 71 years ) , lower clearance and longer half - life were observed compared to younger healthy subjects .
Male and Female Patients There is evidence to suggest that female subjects had higher granisetron concentrations than males following transdermal system application .
However , no statistically significant difference in clinical efficacy outcome was observed between males and females .
Racial or Ethnic Groups The pharmacokinetic profile of granisetron from Sancuso was assessed in healthy Japanese males .
Following the application of a single 6 - day Sancuso 52 cm2 transdermal system , in healthy male Japanese subjects , mean Cmax , AUC ( 0 - 144 ) , and AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) values were 5 . 02 ng / mL ( CV : 66 % ) , 492 ng . hr / mL ( CV : 72 % ) , and 562 ng . hr / mL ( CV : 60 % ) , respectively , and a median tmax value was 48 hours .
Patients with Renal Impairment Total clearance of granisetron was not affected in patients with severe renal failure who received a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment due to neoplastic liver involvement , total plasma clearance following a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride was approximately halved compared to patients without hepatic impairment .
Given the wide variability in pharmacokinetic parameters of granisetron and the good tolerance of doses well above the recommended dose , dose adjustment in patients with hepatic functional impairment is not necessary .
Body Mass Index In a clinical study designed to assess granisetron exposure from Sancuso in subjects with differing levels of body fat , using body mass index ( BMI ) as a surrogate measure for subcutaneous fat , no significant differences were seen in the plasma pharmacokinetics of Sancuso in male and female subjects with low BMI [ < 19 . 5 kg / m2 ( males ) , < 18 . 5 kg / m2 ( females ) ] and high BMI ( 30 . 0 to 39 . 9 kg / m2 inclusive ) compared to a control group ( BMI 20 . 0 to 24 . 9 kg / m2 inclusive ) .
Drug Interaction Studies Because granisetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP1A1 and CYP3A4 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and hence , the half - life of granisetron .
In addition , the activity of the cytochrome P - 450 subfamily 3A4 ( involved in the metabolism of some of the main narcotic analgesic agents ) is not modified by granisetron hydrochloride in vitro .
In in vitro human microsomal studies , ketoconazole inhibited ring oxidation of granisetron hydrochloride .
However , the clinical significance of in vivo pharmacokinetic interactions with ketoconazole is not known .
In a human pharmacokinetic study , hepatic enzyme induction with phenobarbital resulted in a 25 % increase in total plasma clearance of intravenous granisetron hydrochloride .
The clinical significance of this change is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , rats were treated orally with granisetron 1 , 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( 6 , 30 or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
The 50 mg / kg / day dose was reduced to 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) during week 59 due to toxicity .
For a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 body surface area ) , these doses represent about 2 . 6 , 13 , and 65 times the recommended clinical dose ( 3 . 1 mg / day , 2 . 3 mg / m2 / day , delivered by the Sancuso transdermal system , on a body surface area basis ) .
There was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas in males treated with 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , about 13 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) and above , and in females treated with 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day , about 65 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) .
No increase in liver tumors was observed at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 6 mg / m2 / day , about 2 . 6 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) in males and 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , about 13 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) in females .
In a 12 - month oral toxicity study , treatment with granisetron 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , about 261 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) produced hepatocellular adenomas in male and female rats while no such tumors were found in the control rats .
A 24 - month mouse carcinogenicity study of granisetron did not show a statistically significant increase in tumor incidence , but the study was not conclusive .
Because of the tumor findings in rat studies , Sancuso should be prescribed only at the dose and for the indication recommended [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Granisetron was not mutagenic in an in vitro Ames test and mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , and in vivo mouse micronucleus test and in vitro and ex vivo rat hepatocyte UDS assays .
It , however , produced a significant increase in UDS in HeLa cells in vitro and a significant increased incidence of cells with polyploidy in an in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration test .
Granisetron at subcutaneous doses up to 6 mg / kg / day ( 36 mg / m2 / day , about 16 times the recommended human dose of Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) , and oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , about 261 times the recommended human dose of Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 3 Phototoxicity When tested for potential photogenotoxicity in vitro in a Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line , at 200 and 300 mcg / mL , granisetron increased the percentage of cells with chromosomal aberration following photoirradiation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Granisetron was not phototoxic when tested in vitro in a mouse fibroblast cell line .
When tested in vivo in guinea - pigs , Sancuso transdermal system did not show any potential for photoirritation or photosensitivity .
No phototoxicity studies have been performed in humans .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of Sancuso in the prevention of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting ( CINV ) was evaluated in a randomized , parallel group , double - blind , double - dummy study conducted in the U . S . and abroad .
The study compared the efficacy , tolerability and safety of Sancuso transdermal system with that of 2 mg oral granisetron once daily in the prevention of nausea and vomiting in a total of 641 patients receiving multi - day chemotherapy .
The population randomized into the trial included 48 % males and 52 % females aged 16 to 86 years receiving moderately emetogenic ( ME ) or highly emetogenic ( HE ) multi - day chemotherapy .
Seventy - eight ( 78 % ) of patients were White , 12 % Asian , 10 % Hispanic / Latino and 0 % Black .
Sancuso was applied 24 to 48 hours before the first dose of chemotherapy and kept in place for 7 days .
Oral granisetron was administered daily for the duration of the chemotherapy regimen , 1 hour before each dose of chemotherapy .
Efficacy was assessed from the first administration until 24 hours after the start of the last day ' s administration of the chemotherapy regimen .
The primary endpoint of the trial was the proportion of patients achieving no vomiting and / or retching , no more than mild nausea and no rescue medication from the first administration until 24 hours after the start of the last day ' s administration of multi - day chemotherapy .
Using this definition , the effect of Sancuso was established in 60 . 2 % of patients in the Sancuso arm and 64 . 8 % of patients receiving oral granisetron ( difference - 4 . 89 % ; 95 % confidence interval – 12 . 91 % to + 3 . 13 % ) .
An assessment of transdermal system adhesion in 621 patients receiving either active or placebo transdermal system showed that less than 1 % of transdermal systems became detached over the course of the 7 day period of transdermal system application .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sancuso ( granisetron transdermal system ) is a 52 cm2 thin , translucent , rectangular - shaped transdermal system with rounded corners imprinted on one side with " Granisetron 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours " .
The transdermal system releases 3 . 1 mg of granisetron per 24 hours for up to 7 days .
Each Sancuso transdermal system is packaged in a separate sealed foil - lined plastic pouch supplied in packages of 1 ( NDC 42747 - 726 - 01 ) transdermal system .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Sancuso should be stored in the original packaging .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distention Advise the patient to report new or worsening constipation to their healthcare provider and seek immediate medical care if symptoms of an ileus ( pain or swelling in their abdomen ) occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Advise the patient of the possibility of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of Sancuso and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise the patient to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Skin Reactions Instruct the patient remove the transdermal system if they have a severe skin reaction , or a generalized skin reaction ( e . g . allergic rash , including erythematous , macular , papular rash or pruritus ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Increased Drug Exposure with Use of External Heat Sources Advise the patient to avoid prolonged exposure to heat and not to apply a heat pad or heat lamp over or near the Sancuso transdermal system and avoid extended exposure to heat [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Phototoxicity with Ultraviolet Light Exposure Advise the patient to avoid direct sunlight or exposure to sunlamps and to cover the application site of the transdermal system with clothing , if there is a risk of exposure to sunlight or sunlamps throughout the period of wear and for 10 days following its removal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Application and Removal Instructions Instruct the patient on how to apply and remove the transdermal system : • Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• Do not cut the transdermal system .
• Apply the transdermal system to clean , dry , nearly hairless , intact healthy skin on the upper outer arm .
• After the transdermal system is applied , wash hands thoroughly .
• Remove the transdermal system by peeling off gently from the skin .
• Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
• Sancuso contains granisetron .
Do not use other granisetron - containing products with Sancuso [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Kindeva Drug Delivery L . P . Northridge , CA 91324 Manufactured for : Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 Distributed by : Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Nashville , TN 37203 Copyright © 2022 , Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Sancuso and Kyowa Kirin are trademarks owned by the Kyowa Kirin group of companies .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 12 / 2022 Patient Information SANCUSO ® [ san - KOO - so ] ( granisetron transdermal system ) for transdermal use Important : For skin use only .
Read the Patient Information that comes with SANCUSO before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about SANCUSO , ask your healthcare provider .
What is SANCUSO ?
SANCUSO is a prescription medicine used to prevent nausea and vomiting in adults receiving anti - cancer ( chemotherapy ) treatment that causes moderate or severe vomiting .
SANCUSO is a skin patch ( transdermal system ) that slowly releases the medicine into your bloodstream while you wear the transdermal system .
It is not known if SANCUSO is safe and effective in children .
Who should not use SANCUSO ?
Do not use SANCUSO if you are allergic to granisetron or any of the ingredients in SANCUSO .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of ingredients in SANCUSO .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using SANCUSO ?
Before using SANCUSO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have pain or swelling in your stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• are pregnant .
It is not known if SANCUSO will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if SANCUSO passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Other medicines may affect how SANCUSO works .
SANCUSO may also affect how other medicines work .
SANCUSO contains granisetron .
Do not take other granisetron containing products with SANCUSO .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use SANCUSO ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that comes with SANCUSO transdermal system .
• Use SANCUSO exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
What should I avoid while using SANCUSO ?
Do not apply any heat source over or near the SANCUSO transdermal system .
• A heating pad or heat lamp should not be used where the transdermal system is applied .
• You should avoid long periods of exposure to heat because heat can increase the amount of SANCUSO in your blood .
• Avoid sunlight and artificial sunlight .
The medicine in SANCUSO may not work as well and may affect your skin if exposed to direct sunlight or artificial sunlight from sunlamps or tanning beds .
• Keep the transdermal system covered with clothing if you will be in direct sunlight or artificial sunlight .
• Keep the skin where SANCUSO was applied covered for another 10 days after the transdermal system is taken off to protect from exposure to direct sunlight or artificial sunlight .
What are the possible side effects of SANCUSO ?
SANCUSO may cause serious side effects , including : • Using SANCUSO may make it harder to identify certain stomach ( abdomen ) and bowel problems that are from other causes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any abdominal pain or swelling while using SANCUSO .
• Serotonin Syndrome .
A potentially life - threatening problem called serotonin syndrome can happen if you use SANCUSO with certain medicines .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • agitation • seeing or hearing things that are not real ( hallucinations ) • confusion • coma • fast heart beat • changes in blood pressure • dizziness • sweating • flushing • high body temperature ( hyperthermia ) • shaking ( tremors ) , stiff muscles , or muscle twitching • loss of coordination • seizures • nausea , vomiting , diarrhea • Skin reactions .
Skin reactions can happen at the transdermal system application site or outside the transdermal system application site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any redness , rashes , bumps , blisters or itching at or near the transdermal system application site , and especially if they spread outside the place where the transdermal system was applied or if they appear outside the transdermal system application site .
You may need to stop using SANCUSO .
The most common side effects of SANCUSO include : • constipation Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of SANCUSO .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store SANCUSO ?
• Store SANCUSO at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep SANCUSO in the original package it comes in .
Keep SANCUSO out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of SANCUSO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use SANCUSO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SANCUSO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about SANCUSO .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about SANCUSO that is written for health professionals .
Manufactured by : Kindeva Drug Delivery L . P . Northridge , CA 91324 Manufactured for : Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 Distributed by : Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Nashville , TN 37203 For more information , go to www . sancuso . com or call 1 - 800 - SANCUSO .
Copyright © 2022 , Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Sancuso and Kyowa Kirin are trademarks owned by the Kyowa Kirin group of companies .
Instructions for Use SANCUSO ® [ san - KOO - so ] ( granisetron transdermal system ) for transdermal use Read this Instructions for Use before you start using SANCUSO transdermal system and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Important Information : • SANCUSO is for skin use only ( transdermal system ) .
• Avoid exposing the SANCUSO transdermal system application site to direct heat sources such as a heating pad or heat lamp .
• Avoid exposing the SANCUSO transdermal system to direct sunlight or artificial light such as a sunlamp or tanning bed .
• Keep the SANCUSO transdermal system covered with clothing if you will be in sunlight or artificial sunlight .
• Keep the skin where the SANCUSO transdermal system was applied covered for another 10 days after the SANCUSO transdermal system is taken off , to protect from exposure to direct sunlight or artificial sunlight .
• Skin reactions can happen at the SANCUSO transdermal system application site or outside the SANCUSO transdermal system application site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any redness , rashes , bumps , blisters or itching at the SANCUSO transdermal system application site , and especially if they spread outside the place where the SANCUSO transdermal system was applied or if they appear outside the SANCUSO transdermal system application site .
You may need to stop using the SANCUSO transdermal system .
How should I store the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
• Store the SANCUSO transdermal system at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the SANCUSO transdermal system in the original package it comes in .
• Do not open the package until you are ready to apply the SANCUSO transdermal system .
Supplies : • SANCUSO transdermal system • surgical or medical adhesive tape ( not included ) When do I apply the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
• Use the SANCUSO transdermal system exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Apply the SANCUSO transdermal system at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) or up to 2 days ( 48 hours ) before your scheduled anti - cancer ( chemotherapy ) treatment .
• Wear the SANCUSO transdermal system all the time during your chemotherapy treatment .
• Wait at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) after your chemotherapy treatment is finished to remove the SANCUSO transdermal system .
• The SANCUSO transdermal system may be worn for up to 7 days .
Where do I apply the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
• SANCUSO transdermal system should only be applied to the outside of the upper arm .
• Apply the SANCUSO transdermal system to a clean , dry , nearly hairless , healthy area of skin on the outside part of your upper arm .
If there is hair , do not shave .
Instead , clip hair as close to the skin as possible .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The area you choose should not be oily or recently shaved .
The SANCUSO transdermal system should not be placed on skin that is red , irritated , or damaged ( cut or scraped ) .
• Do not apply the SANCUSO transdermal system to areas that have been treated with creams , oils , lotions , powders or other skin products that could keep the SANCUSO transdermal system from sticking well to your skin .
How do I apply the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
The SANCUSO transdermal system comes inside a pouch which is inside the carton .
• 1 .
Do not remove the SANCUSO transdermal system from the pouch until you are ready to use it .
• 2 .
Do not cut the SANCUSO transdermal system into pieces .
• 3 .
Remove the pouch from the carton .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Tear the pouch open at the notch provided , and remove the SANCUSO transdermal system .
Each pouch contains one SANCUSO transdermal system stuck onto a stiff ( rigid ) plastic film .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
The unprinted , sticky side of the SANCUSO transdermal system is covered by a 2 - piece stiff ( rigid ) plastic film .
Bend the transdermal system in the middle .
Slowly peel 1 - half of the stiff ( rigid ) plastic film .
Be careful not to stick the SANCUSO transdermal system to itself .
Do not touch the sticky side of the SANCUSO transdermal system .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
While holding the other half of the stiff ( rigid ) plastic film , apply the sticky half of the SANCUSO transdermal system to your skin .
Remove the second half of the stiff ( rigid ) plastic film and press the whole SANCUSO transdermal system firmly in place and smooth it down with your fingers .
Press firmly making sure the SANCUSO transdermal system sticks well to the skin , especially around the edges .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Wash your hands with soap and water right away after applying the SANCUSO transdermal system to remove any medicine that may have stuck to your fingers .
• 8 .
Keep the SANCUSO transdermal system in place for the whole time you are receiving your chemotherapy treatment .
Remove the SANCUSO transdermal system at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) after your chemotherapy treatment is finished .
The SANCUSO transdermal system can be worn for up to 7 days , depending on the number of days your chemotherapy treatment lasts .
• 9 .
Do not re - use the SANCUSO transdermal system after you remove it .
See the instructions below on the right way to remove and throw away the SANCUSO transdermal system .
What do I do if the SANCUSO transdermal system does not stick well ?
If the SANCUSO transdermal system does not stick well or the edges lift off the skin , you may apply pieces of surgical or medical adhesive tape on each lifted edge to keep the SANCUSO transdermal system in place .
Only place pieces of the surgical or medical adhesive tape on the edges of the SANCUSO transdermal system .
Do not completely cover the SANCUSO transdermal system with surgical or medical adhesive tape and do not wrap completely around your arm .
If the SANCUSO transdermal system comes more than half off or it becomes damaged ( e . g . rips ) , contact your healthcare provider .
Can I bathe or shower while wearing the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
You can continue to shower and wash normally while wearing the SANCUSO transdermal system .
It is not known how other activities , for example swimming , strenuous exercise or using a sauna or whirlpool , may affect the SANCUSO transdermal system .
Avoid these activities while wearing the SANCUSO transdermal system .
How do I remove and dispose of the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
• 1 .
When you remove the SANCUSO transdermal system , peel it off gently .
• 2 .
The used SANCUSO transdermal system will still contain some of the medicine .
After removing the used SANCUSO transdermal system , fold it in half so that the sticky side sticks to itself .
Throw away the used SANCUSO transdermal system in the trash right away so that children and pets cannot reach it .
• 3 .
If any adhesive ( glue ) remains on your skin after you remove the SANCUSO transdermal system , wash the area with soap and water to remove it .
Do not use alcohol or other dissolving liquids , such as nail polish remover .
These may cause skin irritation .
• 4 .
Wash your hands with soap and water after handling the SANCUSO transdermal system .
• 5 .
You may see mild redness on the skin where the SANCUSO transdermal system is removed .
This redness should go away within 3 days .
If redness continues , tell your healthcare provider .
What are the ingredients in the SANCUSO transdermal system ?
Active ingredient : granisetron .
Inactive ingredients : acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer , polyester , titanium dioxide , polyamide resin and polyethylene wax .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Kindeva Drug Delivery L . P . Northridge , CA 91324 Manufactured for : Kyowa Kirin , Inc . , Bedminster , NJ 07921 Distributed by : Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Nashville , TN 37203 Copyright © 2022 Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
All rights reserved .
SANCUSO and Kyowa Kirin are trademarks owned by the Kyowa Kirin group of companies .
Revised : 12 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours Patch Pouch Carton NDC 42747 - 726 - 01 Sancuso ® ( Granisetron Transdermal System ) 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours 7 day patch Rx Only Each 52 cm2 patch contains 34 . 3 mg of granisetron in an acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer adhesive 1 patch www . sancuso . com KYOWA KIRIN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
