Boxed Warning December 2010 Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 ) December 2010 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) December 2010 Warnings and Precautions , Asthma - Related Death ( 5 . 1 ) December 2010 WARNING : ASTHMA - RELATED DEATH Long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists ( LABA ) , such as salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT ® DISKUS ® , increase the risk of asthma - related death .
Data from a large placebo - controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol ( SEREVENT ® Inhalation Aerosol ) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol ( 13 deaths out of 13 , 176 patients treated for 28 weeks on salmeterol versus 3 deaths out of 13 , 179 patients on placebo ) .
Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long - term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma - related death from LABA .
Because of this risk , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma without a concomitant long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid , is contraindicated .
Use SEREVENT DISKUS only as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but are inadequately controlled on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Once asthma control is achieved and maintained , assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy ( e . g . , discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS ) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low - or medium - dose inhaled corticosteroids .
Pediatric and Adolescent Patients : Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
For pediatric and adolescent patients with asthma who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs .
In cases where use of a separate long - term asthma control medication ( e . g . , inhaled corticosteroid ) and a LABA is clinically indicated , appropriate steps must be taken to ensure adherence with both treatment components .
If adherence cannot be assured , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA is recommended .
WARNING : ASTHMA - RELATED DEATH See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists ( LABA ) , such as salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of asthma - related death .
A US study showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol ( 13 deaths out of 13 , 176 patients treated for 28 weeks on salmeterol versus 3 out of 13 , 179 patients on placebo ) .
Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long - term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma - related death from LABA .
( 5 . 1 ) • Prescribe SEREVENT DISKUS only as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but are inadequately controlled on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Once asthma control is achieved and maintained , assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy ( e . g . , discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS ) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low - or medium - dose inhaled corticosteroids .
( 1 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) • Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SEREVENT DISKUS is a LABA indicated for : • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older .
( 1 . 1 ) • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm ( EIB ) in patients aged 4 years and older .
( 1 . 2 ) • Maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
( 1 . 3 ) Important limitation : • Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm .
( 1 . 1 , 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Asthma SEREVENT DISKUS is indicated for the treatment of asthma and in the prevention of bronchospasm only as concomitant therapy with a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid , in patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease , including patients with symptoms of nocturnal asthma .
LABA , such as salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of asthma - related death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma without concomitant use of a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid , is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use SEREVENT DISKUS only as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but are inadequately controlled on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Once asthma control is achieved and maintained , assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy ( e . g . , discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS ) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low - or medium - dose inhaled corticosteroids .
Pediatric and Adolescent Patients : Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
For pediatric and adolescent patients with asthma who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs .
In cases where use of a separate long - term asthma control medication ( e . g . , inhaled corticosteroid ) and a LABA is clinically indicated , appropriate steps must be taken to ensure adherence with both treatment components .
If adherence cannot be assured , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA is recommended .
Important Limitation of Use : SEREVENT DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm .
1 . 2 Prevention of Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm SEREVENT DISKUS is also indicated for prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm ( EIB ) in patients aged 4 years and older .
Use of SEREVENT DISKUS as a single agent for the prevention of EIB may be clinically indicated in patients who do not have persistent asthma .
In patients with persistent asthma , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the prevention of EIB may be clinically indicated , but the treatment of asthma should include a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
1 . 3 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease SEREVENT DISKUS is indicated for the long - term twice - daily ( morning and evening ) administration in the maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) ( including emphysema and chronic bronchitis ) .
Important Limitation of Use : SEREVENT DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SEREVENT DISKUS should be administered by the orally inhaled route only .
For both asthma and COPD , adverse effects are more likely to occur with higher doses of salmeterol , and more frequent administration or administration of a larger number of inhalations ( more than 1 inhalation twice daily ) is not recommended .
Patients using SEREVENT DISKUS should not use additional LABA for any reason .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) . ]
For oral inhalation only .
• Treatment of asthma in patients ≥ 4 years : 1 inhalation twice daily in addition to concomitant treatment with an inhaled corticosteroid .
( 2 . 1 ) • EIB : One inhalation at least 30 minutes before exercise .
( 2 . 2 ) • Maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD : 1 inhalation twice daily .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Asthma LABA , such as salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of asthma - related death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of this risk , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma without concomitant use of a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid is contraindicated .
Use SEREVENT DISKUS only as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but are inadequately controlled on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Once asthma control is achieved and maintained , assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy ( e . g . , discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS ) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low - or medium - dose inhaled corticosteroids .
Pediatric and Adolescent Patients : Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
For patients with asthma less than 18 years of age who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs .
In cases where use of a separate long - term asthma control medication ( e . g . , inhaled corticosteroid ) and a LABA is clinically indicated , appropriate steps must be taken to ensure adherence with both treatment components .
If adherence cannot be assured , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA is recommended .
For bronchodilatation and prevention of symptoms of asthma , including the symptoms of nocturnal asthma , the usual dosage for adults and children aged 4 years and older is 1 inhalation ( 50 mcg ) twice daily ( morning and evening , approximately 12 hours apart ) .
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual response , medical advice should be sought immediately as this is often a sign of destabilization of asthma .
Under these circumstances , the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated .
If symptoms arise in the period between doses , an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist should be taken for immediate relief .
2 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm Use of SEREVENT DISKUS as a single agent for the prevention of EIB may be clinically indicated in patients who do not have persistent asthma .
In patients with persistent asthma , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the prevention of EIB may be clinically indicated , but the treatment of asthma should include a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
One inhalation of SEREVENT DISKUS at least 30 minutes before exercise has been shown to protect patients against EIB .
When used intermittently as needed for prevention of EIB , this protection may last up to 9 hours in adolescents and adults and up to 12 hours in patients aged 4 to 11 years .
Additional doses of SEREVENT should not be used for 12 hours after the administration of this drug .
Patients who are receiving SEREVENT DISKUS twice daily should not use additional SEREVENT for prevention of EIB .
2 . 3 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease For maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD ( including chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) , the dosage for adults is 1 inhalation ( 50 mcg ) twice daily ( morning and evening , approximately 12 hours apart ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Disposable teal green device with 60 blisters containing salmeterol ( 50 mcg ) as an oral inhalation powder formulation .
An institutional pack containing 28 blisters is also available .
DISKUS device containing salmeterol ( 50 mcg ) as an oral inhalation powder .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Because of the risk of asthma - related death and hospitalization , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma without concomitant use of a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid , is contraindicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
SEREVENT DISKUS is contraindicated as primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma or COPD where intensive measures are required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
SEREVENT DISKUS is contraindicated in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
• Asthma : Without concomitant use of a long - term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
( 4 ) • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma or COPD requiring intensive measures .
( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Asthma - related death and asthma - related hospitalizations : Long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonists increase the risk .
Prescribe for asthma only as concomitant therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid .
( 5 . 1 ) • Deterioration of disease and acute episodes : Do not initiate during rapidly deteriorating asthma .
Do not use to treat acute symptoms .
( 5 . 2 ) • Corticosteroids : Not a substitute for corticosteroids .
Patients with asthma must take a concomitant inhaled corticosteroid .
( 5 . 3 ) • Use with additional long - acting beta2 - agonist : Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose .
( 5 . 4 ) • Paradoxical bronchospasm : Discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs .
( 5 . 5 ) • Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders : Use with caution because of beta - adrenergic stimulation .
( 5 . 6 ) • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) : Risk of cardiovascular effects .
Use not recommended with SEREVENT DISKUS .
( 5 . 8 ) • Coexisting conditions : Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , thyrotoxicosis , diabetes mellitus , and ketoacidosis .
( 5 . 9 ) • Metabolic effects : Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Asthma - Related Death LABA , such as salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of asthma - related death .
Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long - term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma - related death from LABA .
Because of this risk , use of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma without concomitant use of a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid , is contraindicated .
Use SEREVENT DISKUS only as additional therapy for patients with asthma who are currently taking but are inadequately controlled on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Once asthma control is achieved and maintained , assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy ( e . g . , discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS ) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long - term asthma control medication , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low - or medium - dose inhaled corticosteroids .
Pediatric and Adolescent Patients : Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
For pediatric and adolescent patients with asthma who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs .
In cases where use of a separate long - term asthma control medication ( e . g . , inhaled corticosteroid ) and a LABA is clinically indicated , appropriate steps must be taken to ensure adherence with both treatment components .
If adherence cannot be assured , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA is recommended .
The Salmeterol Multi - center Asthma Research Trial ( SMART ) was a large 28 - week placebo - controlled US study comparing the safety of salmeterol ( SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol ) with placebo , each added to usual asthma therapy , that showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2 - agonists , the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect .
A 16 - week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom , the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance ( SNS ) study , showed results similar to the SMART study .
In the SNS study , the rate of asthma - related death was numerically , though not statistically significantly , greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol ( 42 mcg twice daily ) than those treated with albuterol ( 180 mcg 4 times daily ) added to usual asthma therapy .
The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma .
No studies have been conducted that were adequate to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABA .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes SEREVENT DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life - threatening episodes of asthma or COPD .
SEREVENT DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD .
The initiation of SEREVENT DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate .
Serious acute respiratory events , including fatalities , have been reported when salmeterol has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma .
In most cases , these have occurred in patients with severe asthma ( e . g . , patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence , low pulmonary function , intubation , mechanical ventilation , frequent hospitalizations , previous life - threatening acute asthma exacerbations ) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma ( e . g . , patients with significantly increasing symptoms ; increasing need for inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists ; decreasing response to usual medications ; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids ; recent emergency room visits ; deteriorating lung function ) .
However , these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well .
It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events .
Increasing use of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma .
In this situation , the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for adding additional inhaled corticosteroid or initiating systemic corticosteroids .
Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily ( morning and evening ) of SEREVENT DISKUS .
SEREVENT DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms , i . e . , as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm .
An inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist , not SEREVENT DISKUS , should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath .
When prescribing SEREVENT DISKUS , the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist ( e . g . , albuterol ) for treatment of acute symptoms .
When beginning treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS , patients who have been taking oral or inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists on a regular basis ( e . g . , 4 times a day ) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs .
5 . 3 SEREVENT DISKUS is Not a Substitute for Corticosteroids There are no data demonstrating that SEREVENT DISKUS has a clinical anti - inflammatory effect such as that associated with corticosteroids .
When initiating and throughout treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS in patients receiving oral or inhaled corticosteroids for treatment of asthma , patients must continue taking a suitable dosage of corticosteroids to maintain clinical stability even if they feel better as a result of initiating SEREVENT DISKUS .
Any change in corticosteroid dosage should be made ONLY after clinical evaluation .
5 . 4 Excessive Use of SEREVENT DISKUS and Use With Other Long - Acting Beta2 - Agonists As with other inhaled beta2 - adrenergic drugs , SEREVENT DISKUS should not be used more often or at higher doses than recommended , or in conjunction with other medications containing LABA , as an overdose may result .
Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs .
Patients using SEREVENT DISKUS should not use an additional LABA ( e . g . , formoterol fumarate , arformoterol tartrate ) for any reason .
5 . 5 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications , SEREVENT DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with SEREVENT DISKUS , it should be treated immediately with an inhaled , short - acting bronchodilator ; SEREVENT DISKUS should be discontinued immediately ; and alternative therapy should be instituted .
Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm , irritation , or swelling , such as stridor and choking , have been reported in patients receiving SEREVENT DISKUS .
5 . 6 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and insomnia [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Therefore , SEREVENT DISKUS , like all products containing sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Salmeterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol ( 12 to 20 times the recommended dose ) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval , which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias .
Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs .
5 . 7 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of SEREVENT DISKUS , as demonstrated by cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , and bronchospasm .
There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy ; therefore , patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take SEREVENT DISKUS [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Because of the potential for drug interactions and the potential for increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events , the concomitant use of SEREVENT DISKUS with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir , telithromycin ) is not recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 9 Coexisting Conditions SEREVENT DISKUS , like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Doses of the related beta2 - adrenoceptor agonist albuterol , when administered intravenously , have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 10 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta - adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Clinically significant and dose - related changes in blood glucose and / or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with SEREVENT DISKUS at recommended doses .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA , including salmeterol , the active ingredient in SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of asthma - related death .
Data from a large 28 - week placebo - controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol ( SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol ) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol .
Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) are : • Asthma : Headache , influenza , nasal / sinus congestion , pharyngitis , rhinitis tracheitis / bronchitis .
( 6 . 1 ) • COPD : Cough , headache , musculoskeletal pain , throat irritation , viral respiratory infection .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older : Two multicenter , 12 - week , controlled studies evaluated twice - daily doses of SEREVENT DISKUS in patients aged 12 years and older with asthma .
Table 1 reports the incidence of adverse reactions in these 2 studies .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reaction Incidence in Two 12 - Week Clinical Trials in Adult and Adolescent Patients With AsthmaAdverse Event Percent of Patients Placebo ( N = 152 ) SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg Twice Daily ( N = 149 ) Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol 180 mcg 4 Times Daily ( N = 150 ) Ear , nose , and throat Nasal / sinus congestion , pallor 6 9 8 Rhinitis 4 5 4 Neurological Headache 9 13 12 Respiratory Asthma 1 3 < 1 Tracheitis / bronchitis 4 7 3 Influenza 2 5 5 Table 1 includes all events ( whether considered drug - related or nondrug - related by the investigator ) that occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the group receiving SEREVENT DISKUS and were more common than in the placebo group .
Pharyngitis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection , and cough occurred at ≥ 3 % but were more common in the placebo group .
However , throat irritation has been described at rates exceeding that of placebo in other controlled clinical trials .
Additional Adverse Reactions : Other adverse reactions not previously listed , whether considered drug - related or not by the investigators , that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with SEREVENT DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following : contact dermatitis , eczema , localized aches and pains , nausea , oral mucosal abnormality , pain in joint , paresthesia , pyrexia of unknown origin , sinus headache , and sleep disturbance .
Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years : Two multicenter , 12 - week , controlled studies have evaluated twice - daily doses of SEREVENT DISKUS in patients aged 4 to 11 years with asthma .
Table 2 includes all events ( whether considered drug - related or nondrug - related by the investigator ) that occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the group receiving SEREVENT DISKUS and were more common than in the placebo group .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reaction Incidence in Two 12 - Week Pediatric Clinical Trials in Patients With AsthmaAdverse Event Percent of Patients Placebo ( N = 215 ) SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg Twice Daily ( N = 211 ) Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol 200 mcg 4 Times Daily ( N = 115 ) Ear , nose , and throat Ear signs and symptoms 3 4 9 Pharyngitis 3 6 3 Neurological Headache 14 17 20 Respiratory Asthma 2 4 < 1 Skin Skin rashes 3 4 2 Urticaria 0 3 2 The following events were reported at an incidence of > 1 % in the salmeterol group and with a higher incidence than in the albuterol and placebo groups : gastrointestinal signs and symptoms , lower respiratory signs and symptoms , photodermatitis , and arthralgia and articular rheumatism .
In clinical trials evaluating concurrent therapy of salmeterol with inhaled corticosteroids , adverse events were consistent with those previously reported for salmeterol , or with events that would be expected with the use of inhaled corticosteroids .
Laboratory Test Abnormalities : Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥ 1 % of patients in clinical trials .
The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies .
In addition , there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium .
6 . 2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Two multicenter , 24 - week , controlled studies have evaluated twice - daily doses of SEREVENT DISKUS in patients with COPD .
For presentation ( Table 3 ) , the placebo data from a third trial , identical in design , patient entrance criteria , and overall conduct but comparing fluticasone propionate with placebo , were integrated with the placebo data from these 2 studies ( total N = 341 for salmeterol and 576 for placebo ) .
Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions With ≥ 3 % Incidence in US Controlled Clinical Trials With SEREVENT DISKUS in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary DiseaseaAdverse Event Percent of Patients Placebo ( N = 576 ) SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg Twice Daily ( N = 341 ) Cardiovascular Hypertension 2 4 Ear , nose , and throat Throat irritation 6 7 Nasal congestion / blockage 3 4 Sinusitis 2 4 Ear signs and symptoms 1 3 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 3 3 Lower respiratory Cough 4 5 Rhinitis 2 4 Viral respiratory infection 4 5 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 10 12 Muscle cramps and spasms 1 3 Neurological Headache 11 14 Dizziness 2 4 Average duration of exposure ( days ) 128 . 9 138 . 5 aTable 3 includes all events ( whether considered drug - related or nondrug - related by the investigator ) that occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the group receiving SEREVENT DISKUS and were more common in the group receiving SEREVENT DISKUS than in the placebo group .
Additional Adverse Reactions : Other events occurring in the group receiving SEREVENT DISKUS that occurred at a frequency of ≥ 1 % and were more common than in the placebo group were as follows : anxiety ; arthralgia and articular rheumatism ; bone and skeletal pain ; candidiasis mouth / throat ; dental discomfort and pain ; dyspeptic symptoms ; edema and swelling ; gastrointestinal infections ; hyperglycemia ; hyposalivation ; keratitis and conjunctivitis ; lower respiratory signs and symptoms ; migraines ; muscle pain ; muscle stiffness , tightness , and rigidity ; musculoskeletal inflammation ; pain ; and skin rashes .
Adverse reactions to salmeterol are similar in nature to those seen with other selective beta2 - adrenoceptor agonists , e . g . , tachycardia ; palpitations ; immediate hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm ; headache ; tremor ; nervousness ; and paradoxical bronchospasm .
Laboratory Abnormalities : There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials .
Specifically , no changes in potassium were noted .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of salmeterol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or causal connection to salmeterol or a combination of these factors .
In extensive US and worldwide postmarketing experience with salmeterol , serious exacerbations of asthma , including some that have been fatal , have been reported .
In most cases , these have occurred in patients with severe asthma and / or in some patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , but they have also occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma .
It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events .
Cardiovascular : Arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , extrasystoles ) and anaphylaxis .
Non - Site Specific : Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy .
Respiratory : Reports of upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm , irritation , or swelling such as stridor or choking ; oropharyngeal irritation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir ) : Use not recommended .
May increase risk of cardiovascular effects .
( 7 . 1 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants : Use with extreme caution .
May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system .
( 7 . 2 ) • Beta - blockers : Use with caution .
May block bronchodilatory effects of beta - agonists and produce severe bronchospasm .
( 7 . 3 ) • Diuretics : Use with caution .
Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta - agonists .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects , coadministration of salmeterol ( 50 mcg twice daily ) and ketoconazole ( 400 mg once daily ) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol ( AUC increased 16 - fold and Cmax increased 1 . 4 - fold ) .
Three ( 3 ) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2 - agonist side effects ( 2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia ) .
Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc , coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration .
Due to the potential increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events , the concomitant use of salmeterol with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir , telithromycin ) is not recommended .
7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants SEREVENT DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of salmeterol on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents .
7 . 3 Beta - Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta - blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as SEREVENT DISKUS , but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD .
Therefore , patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents for these patients ; cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 4 Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of SEREVENT DISKUS with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic impairment : Monitor patients for signs of increased drug exposure .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with SEREVENT DISKUS in pregnant women .
SEREVENT DISKUS should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
No teratogenic effects occurred in rats at oral doses approximately 160 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose ( MRHD ) on an mg / m2 basis .
In pregnant Dutch rabbits administered oral doses approximately 50 times the MRHD based on comparison of the AUCs , salmeterol exhibited fetal toxic effects characteristically resulting from beta - adrenoceptor stimulation .
These included precocious eyelid openings , cleft palate , sternebral fusion , limb and paw flexures , and delayed ossification of the frontal cranial bones .
No such effects occurred at an oral dose approximately 20 times the MRHD based on comparison of the AUCs .
New Zealand White rabbits were less sensitive since only delayed ossification of the frontal cranial bones was seen at an oral dose approximately 1 , 600 times the MRHD on an mg / m2 basis .
Extensive use of other beta - agonists has provided no evidence that these class effects in animals are relevant to their use in humans .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery There are no well - controlled human studies that have investigated effects of salmeterol on preterm labor or labor at term .
Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of SEREVENT DISKUS during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of salmeterol , a component of SEREVENT DISKUS , after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low .
In rats , salmeterol xinafoate is excreted in the milk .
Since there are no data from controlled trials on the use of salmeterol by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue SEREVENT DISKUS , taking into account the importance of SEREVENT DISKUS to the mother .
Caution should be exercised when SEREVENT DISKUS is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
For pediatric and adolescent patients with asthma who require addition of a LABA to an inhaled corticosteroid , a fixed - dose combination product containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA should ordinarily be used to ensure adherence with both drugs [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of SEREVENT DISKUS in adolescents ( aged 12 years and older ) has been established based on adequate and well - controlled trials conducted in adults and adolescents [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
A large 28 - week placebo - controlled US study comparing salmeterol ( SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol ) and placebo , each added to usual asthma therapy , showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Post - hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed .
Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12 % of patients in each treatment arm .
Respiratory - related death or life - threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group ( 0 . 12 % [ 2 / 1 , 653 ] ) and the placebo group ( 0 . 12 % [ 2 / 1 , 622 ] ; relative risk : 1 . 0 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 1 , 7 . 2 ] ) .
All - cause hospitalization , however , was increased in the salmeterol group ( 2 % [ 35 / 1 , 653 ] ) versus the placebo group ( < 1 % [ 16 / 1 , 622 ] ; relative risk : 2 . 1 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 1 , 3 . 7 ] ) .
The safety and efficacy of SEREVENT DISKUS have been evaluated in over 2 , 500 patients aged 4 to 11 years with asthma , 346 of whom were administered SEREVENT DISKUS for 1 year .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of SEREVENT DISKUS in pediatric patients is warranted for either asthma or EIB .
In 2 randomized , double - blind , controlled clinical trials of 12 weeks ’ duration , SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg was administered to 211 pediatric patients with asthma who did and who did not receive concurrent inhaled corticosteroids .
The efficacy of SEREVENT DISKUS was demonstrated over the 12 - week treatment period with respect to peak expiratory flow ( PEF ) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) .
SEREVENT DISKUS was effective in demographic subgroups ( gender and age ) of the population .
In 2 randomized studies in children aged 4 to 11 years with asthma and EIB , a single 50 - mcg dose of SEREVENT DISKUS prevented EIB when dosed 30 minutes prior to exercise , with protection lasting up to 11 . 5 hours in repeat testing following this single dose in many patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of adolescent and adult patients with asthma who received SEREVENT DISKUS in chronic dosing clinical trials , 209 were aged 65 years or older .
Of the total number of patients with COPD who received SEREVENT DISKUS in chronic dosing clinical trials , 167 were aged 65 years or older and 45 were aged 75 years or older .
No apparent differences in the safety of SEREVENT DISKUS were observed when geriatric patients were compared with younger patients in clinical trials .
As with other beta2 - agonists , however , special caution should be observed when using SEREVENT DISKUS in geriatric patients who have concomitant cardiovascular disease that could be adversely affected by this class of drug .
Data from the trials in patients with COPD suggested a greater effect on FEV1 of SEREVENT DISKUS in the < 65 years age - group , as compared with the ≥ 65 years age - group .
However , based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of SEREVENT DISKUS in geriatric patients is warranted .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of salmeterol base has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
Since salmeterol is predominantly cleared by hepatic metabolism , liver function impairment may lead to accumulation of salmeterol in plasma .
Therefore , patients with hepatic disease should be closely monitored .
10 OVERDOSAGE The expected signs and symptoms with overdosage of SEREVENT DISKUS are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the following : seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , muscle cramps , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , insomnia .
Overdosage with SEREVENT DISKUS can lead to clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval , which can produce ventricular arrhythmias .
Other signs of overdosage may include hypokalemia and hyperglycemia .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of SEREVENT DISKUS .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of SEREVENT DISKUS together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of SEREVENT DISKUS .
Cardiac monitoring is recommended in cases of overdosage .
No deaths were seen in rats given salmeterol at an inhalation dose of 2 . 9 mg / kg ( approximately 240 and 110 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) and in dogs at an inhalation dose of 0 . 7 mg / kg ( approximately 190 and 90 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) .
By the oral route , no deaths occurred in mice at 150 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 100 and 2 , 900 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) and in rats at 1 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 81 , 000 and 38 , 000 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) .
11 DESCRIPTION SEREVENT DISKUS contains salmeterol xinafoate as the racemic form of the 1 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthoic acid salt of salmeterol .
The active component of the formulation is salmeterol base , a selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
The chemical name of salmeterol xinafoate is 4 - hydroxy - α1 - [ [ [ 6 - ( 4 - phenylbutoxy ) hexyl ] amino ] methyl ] - 1 , 3 - benzenedimethanol , 1 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthalenecarboxylate .
Salmeterol xinafoate has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Salmeterol xinafoate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 603 . 8 , and the empirical formula is C25H37NO4 • C11H8O3 .
It is freely soluble in methanol ; slightly soluble in ethanol , chloroform , and isopropanol ; and sparingly soluble in water .
SEREVENT DISKUS is a specially designed plastic device containing a double - foil blister strip of a powder formulation of salmeterol xinafoate intended for oral inhalation only .
Each blister on the double - foil strip within the device contains 50 mcg of salmeterol administered as the salmeterol xinafoate salt in 12 . 5 mg of formulation containing lactose ( which contains milk proteins ) .
After a blister containing medication is opened by activating the device , the medication is dispersed into the airstream created by the patient inhaling through the mouthpiece .
Under standardized in vitro test conditions , SEREVENT DISKUS delivers 47 mcg when tested at a flow rate of 60 L / min for 2 seconds .
In adult patients with obstructive lung disease and severely compromised lung function ( mean FEV1 20 % to 30 % of predicted ) , mean peak inspiratory flow ( PIF ) through a DISKUS ® inhalation device was 82 . 4 L / min ( range : 46 . 1 to 115 . 3 L / min ) .
The actual amount of drug delivered to the lung will depend on patient factors , such as inspiratory flow profile .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Salmeterol is a selective LABA .
In vitro studies show salmeterol to be at least 50 times more selective for beta2 - adrenoceptors than albuterol .
Although beta2 - adrenoceptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta1 - adrenoceptors are the predominant receptors in the heart , there are also beta2 - adrenoceptors in the human heart comprising 10 % to 50 % of the total beta - adrenoceptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established , but their presence raises the possibility that even highly selective beta2 - agonists may have cardiac effects .
The pharmacologic effects of beta2 - adrenoceptor agonist drugs , including salmeterol , are at least in part attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
In vitro tests show that salmeterol is a potent and long - lasting inhibitor of the release of mast cell mediators , such as histamine , leukotrienes , and prostaglandin D2 , from human lung .
Salmeterol inhibits histamine - induced plasma protein extravasation and inhibits platelet - activating factor – induced eosinophil accumulation in the lungs of guinea pigs when administered by the inhaled route .
In humans , single doses of salmeterol administered via inhalation aerosol attenuate allergen - induced bronchial hyper - responsiveness .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Inhaled salmeterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can in some patients produce dose - related cardiovascular effects and effects on blood glucose and / or serum potassium [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 , 5 . 10 ) ] .
The cardiovascular effects ( heart rate , blood pressure ) associated with salmeterol inhalation aerosol occur with similar frequency , and are of similar type and severity , as those noted following albuterol administration .
The effects of rising doses of salmeterol and standard inhaled doses of albuterol were studied in volunteers and in patients with asthma .
Salmeterol doses up to 84 mcg administered as inhalation aerosol resulted in heart rate increases of 3 to 16 beats / min , about the same as albuterol dosed at 180 mcg by inhalation aerosol ( 4 to 10 beats / min ) .
Adolescent and adult patients receiving 50 - mcg doses of salmeterol inhalation powder ( N = 60 ) underwent continuous electrocardiographic monitoring during two 12 - hour periods after the first dose and after 1 month of therapy , and no clinically significant dysrhythmias were noted .
Also , pediatric patients receiving 50 - mcg doses of salmeterol inhalation powder ( N = 67 ) underwent continuous electrocardiographic monitoring during two 12 - hour periods after the first dose and after 3 months of therapy , and no clinically significant dysrhythmias were noted .
In 24 - week clinical studies in patients with COPD , the incidence of clinically significant abnormalities on the predose electrocardiograms ( ECGs ) at Weeks 12 and 24 in patients who received salmeterol 50 mcg was not different compared with placebo .
No effect of treatment with salmeterol 50 mcg was observed on pulse rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure in a subset of patients with COPD who underwent 12 - hour serial vital sign measurements after the first dose ( N = 91 ) and after 12 weeks of therapy ( N = 74 ) .
Median changes from baseline in pulse rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were similar for patients receiving either salmeterol or placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Concomitant Use of SEREVENT DISKUS With Other Respiratory Medications : Short - Acting Beta2 - Agonists : In two 12 - week repetitive - dose adolescent and adult clinical trials in patients with asthma ( N = 149 ) , the mean daily need for additional beta2 - agonist in patients using SEREVENT DISKUS was approximately 1 ½ inhalations / day .
Twenty - six percent ( 26 % ) of the patients in these trials used between 8 and 24 inhalations of short - acting beta - agonist per day on 1 or more occasions .
Nine percent ( 9 % ) of the patients in these trials averaged over 4 inhalations / day over the course of the 12 - week trials .
No increase in frequency of cardiovascular events was observed among the 3 patients who averaged 8 to 11 inhalations / day ; however , the safety of concomitant use of more than 8 inhalations / day of short - acting beta2 - agonist with SEREVENT DISKUS has not been established .
In 29 patients who experienced worsening of asthma while receiving SEREVENT DISKUS during these trials , albuterol therapy administered via either nebulizer or inhalation aerosol ( 1 dose in most cases ) led to improvement in FEV1 and no increase in occurrence of cardiovascular adverse events .
In 2 clinical trials in patients with COPD , the mean daily need for additional beta2 - agonist for patients using SEREVENT DISKUS was approximately 4 inhalations / day .
Twenty - four percent ( 24 % ) of the patients using SEREVENT DISKUS in these trials averaged 6 or more inhalations of albuterol per day over the course of the 24 - week trials .
No increase in frequency of cardiovascular adverse reactions was observed among patients who averaged 6 or more inhalations per day .
Methylxanthines : The concurrent use of intravenously or orally administered methylxanthines ( e . g . , aminophylline , theophylline ) by patients receiving salmeterol has not been completely evaluated .
In 1 clinical asthma trial , 87 patients receiving SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol 42 mcg twice daily concurrently with a theophylline product had adverse event rates similar to those in 71 patients receiving SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol without theophylline .
Resting heart rates were slightly higher in the patients on theophylline but were little affected by therapy with SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol .
In 2 clinical trials in patients with COPD , 39 patients receiving SEREVENT DISKUS concurrently with a theophylline product had adverse event rates similar to those in 302 patients receiving SEREVENT DISKUS without theophylline .
Based on the available data , the concomitant administration of methylxanthines with SEREVENT DISKUS did not alter the observed adverse event profile .
Cromoglycate : In clinical trials , inhaled cromolyn sodium did not alter the safety profile of salmeterol when administered concurrently .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Salmeterol xinafoate , an ionic salt , dissociates in solution so that the salmeterol and 1 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthoic acid ( xinafoate ) moieties are absorbed , distributed , metabolized , and eliminated independently .
Salmeterol acts locally in the lung ; therefore , plasma levels do not predict therapeutic effect .
Absorption : Because of the small therapeutic dose , systemic levels of salmeterol are low or undetectable after inhalation of recommended doses ( 50 mcg of salmeterol inhalation powder twice daily ) .
Following chronic administration of an inhaled dose of 50 mcg of salmeterol inhalation powder twice daily , salmeterol was detected in plasma within 5 to 45 minutes in 7 patients with asthma ; plasma concentrations were very low , with mean peak concentrations of 167 pg / mL at 20 minutes and no accumulation with repeated doses .
Distribution : The percentage of salmeterol bound to human plasma proteins averages 96 % in vitro over the concentration range of 8 to 7 , 722 ng of salmeterol base per milliliter , much higher concentrations than those achieved following therapeutic doses of salmeterol .
Metabolism : Salmeterol base is extensively metabolized by hydroxylation , with subsequent elimination predominantly in the feces .
No significant amount of unchanged salmeterol base was detected in either urine or feces .
An in vitro study using human liver microsomes showed that salmeterol is extensively metabolized to α - hydroxysalmeterol ( aliphatic oxidation ) by CYP3A4 .
Ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 , essentially completely inhibited the formation of α - hydroxysalmeterol in vitro .
Elimination : In 2 healthy adult subjects who received 1 mg of radiolabeled salmeterol ( as salmeterol xinafoate ) orally , approximately 25 % and 60 % of the radiolabeled salmeterol was eliminated in urine and feces , respectively , over a period of 7 days .
The terminal elimination half - life was about 5 . 5 hours ( 1 volunteer only ) .
The xinafoate moiety has no apparent pharmacologic activity .
The xinafoate moiety is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) and has a long elimination half - life of 11 days .
Drug Interactions : Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 : Ketoconazole : In a placebo - controlled crossover drug interaction study in 20 healthy male and female subjects , coadministration of salmeterol ( 50 mcg twice daily ) and the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole ( 400 mg once daily ) for 7 days resulted in a significant increase in plasma salmeterol exposure as determined by a 16 - fold increase in AUC ( ratio with and without ketoconazole 15 . 76 [ 90 % CI : 10 . 66 , 23 . 31 ] ) mainly due to increased bioavailability of the swallowed portion of the dose .
Peak plasma salmeterol concentrations were increased by 1 . 4 - fold ( 90 % CI : 1 . 23 , 1 . 68 ) .
Three ( 3 ) out of 20 subjects ( 15 % ) were withdrawn from salmeterol and ketoconazole coadministration due to beta - agonist – mediated systemic effects ( 2 with QTc prolongation and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia ) .
Coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole did not result in a clinically significant effect on mean heart rate , mean blood potassium , or mean blood glucose .
Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc , coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration .
Erythromycin : In a repeat - dose study in 13 healthy subjects , concomitant administration of erythromycin ( a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor ) and salmeterol inhalation aerosol resulted in a 40 % increase in salmeterol Cmax at steady state ( ratio with and without erythromycin 1 . 4 [ 90 % CI : 0 . 96 , 2 . 03 ] , p = 0 . 12 ) , a 3 . 6 - beat / min increase in heart rate ( [ 95 % CI : 0 . 19 , 7 . 03 ] , p < 0 . 04 ) , a 5 . 8 - msec increase in QTc interval ( [ 95 % CI : - 6 . 14 , 17 . 77 ] , p = 0 . 34 ) , and no change in plasma potassium .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an 18 - month carcinogenicity study in CD - mice , salmeterol at oral doses of 1 . 4 mg / kg and above ( approximately 20 times the MRHD for adults and children based on comparison of the plasma AUCs ) caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of smooth muscle hyperplasia , cystic glandular hyperplasia , leiomyomas of the uterus , and ovarian cysts .
No tumors were seen at 0 . 2 mg / kg ( approximately 3 times the MRHD for adults and children based on comparison of the AUCs ) .
In a 24 - month oral and inhalation carcinogenicity study in Sprague Dawley rats , salmeterol caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of mesovarian leiomyomas and ovarian cysts at doses of 0 . 68 mg / kg and above ( approximately 55 and 25 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) .
No tumors were seen at 0 . 21 mg / kg ( approximately 15 and 8 times the MRHD for adults and children , respectively , on an mg / m2 basis ) .
These findings in rodents are similar to those reported previously for other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs .
The relevance of these findings to human use is unknown .
Salmeterol produced no detectable or reproducible increases in microbial and mammalian gene mutation in vitro .
No clastogenic activity occurred in vitro in human lymphocytes or in vivo in a rat micronucleus test .
No effects on fertility were identified in rats treated with salmeterol at oral doses up to 2 mg / kg ( approximately 160 times the MRHD for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Preclinical : Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Reproductive Toxicology Studies : No teratogenic effects occurred in rats at oral doses up to 2 mg / kg ( approximately 160 times the MRHD on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In Dutch rabbits administered oral doses of 1 mg / kg and above ( approximately 50 times and above the MRHD based on comparison of the AUCs ) , salmeterol exhibited fetal toxic effects characteristically resulting from beta - adrenoceptor stimulation .
These included precocious eyelid openings , cleft palate , sternebral fusion , limb and paw flexures , and delayed ossification of the frontal cranial bones .
No such effects occurred at an oral dose of 0 . 6 mg / kg ( approximately 20 times the MRHD based on comparison of the AUCs ) .
New Zealand White rabbits were less sensitive since only delayed ossification of the frontal bones was seen at an oral dose of 10 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 600 times the MRHD on an mg / m2 basis ) .
Salmeterol crossed the placenta following oral administration to mice and rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Asthma The initial studies supporting the approval of SEREVENT DISKUS for the treatment of asthma did not require the regular use of inhaled corticosteroids .
However , for the treatment of asthma , SEREVENT DISKUS is currently indicated only as concomitant therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) ] .
Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older : In 2 randomized double - blind studies , SEREVENT DISKUS was compared with albuterol inhalation aerosol and placebo in adolescent and adult patients with mild - to - moderate asthma ( protocol defined as 50 % to 80 % predicted FEV1 , actual mean of 67 . 7 % at baseline ) , including patients who did and who did not receive concurrent inhaled corticosteroids .
The efficacy of SEREVENT DISKUS was demonstrated over the 12 - week period with no change in effectiveness over this time period ( see Figure 1 ) .
There were no gender - or age - related differences in safety or efficacy .
No development of tachyphylaxis to the bronchodilator effect was noted in these studies .
FEV1 measurements ( mean change from baseline ) from these two 12 - week studies are shown in Figure 1 for both the first and last treatment days .
First Treatment Day [ MULTIMEDIA ] Last Treatment Day ( Week 12 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 4 shows the treatment effects seen during daily treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS for 12 weeks in adolescent and adult patients with mild - to - moderate asthma .
Table 4 .
Daily Efficacy Measurements in Two 12 - Week Clinical Trials ( Combined Data ) Parameter Time Placebo SEREVENT DISKUS Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol No .
of randomized subjects 152 149 148 Mean AM peak expiratory flow ( L / min ) Baseline 12 weeks 394 395 394 396 427 a 394 Mean % days with no asthma symptoms Baseline 12 weeks 14 13 12 20 33 21 Mean % nights with no awakenings Baseline 12 weeks 70 63 68 73 85 a 71 Rescue medications ( mean no .
of inhalations per day ) Baseline 12 weeks 4 . 2 4 . 3 4 . 3 3 . 3 1 . 6 b 2 . 2 Asthma exacerbations ( % ) 14 15 16 aStatistically superior to placebo and albuterol ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
bStatistically superior to placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Maintenance of efficacy for periods up to 1 year has been documented .
SEREVENT DISKUS and SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol were compared with placebo in 2 additional randomized double - blind clinical trials in adolescent and adult patients with mild - to - moderate asthma .
SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg and SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol 42 mcg , both administered twice daily , produced significant improvements in pulmonary function compared with placebo over the 12 - week period .
While no statistically significant differences were observed between the active treatments for any of the efficacy assessments or safety evaluations performed , there were some efficacy measures on which the metered - dose inhaler appeared to provide better results .
Similar findings were noted in 2 randomized , single - dose , crossover comparisons of SEREVENT DISKUS and SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol for the prevention of EIB .
Therefore , while SEREVENT DISKUS was comparable to SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol in clinical trials in mild - to - moderate patients with asthma , it should not be assumed that they will produce clinically equivalent outcomes in all patients .
Patients on Concomitant Inhaled Corticosteroids : In 4 clinical trials in adult and adolescent patients with asthma ( N = 1 , 922 ) , the effect of adding SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol to inhaled corticosteroid therapy was evaluated over a 24 - week treatment period .
The studies compared the addition of salmeterol therapy to an increase ( at least doubling ) of the inhaled corticosteroid dose .
Two randomized , double - blind , controlled , parallel - group clinical trials ( N = 997 ) enrolled patients ( aged 18 to 82 years ) with persistent asthma who were previously maintained but not adequately controlled on inhaled corticosteroid therapy .
During the 2 - week run - in period , all patients were switched to beclomethasone dipropionate ( BDP ) 168 mcg twice daily .
Patients still not adequately controlled were randomized to either the addition of SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol 42 mcg twice daily or an increase of BDP to 336 mcg twice daily .
As compared with the doubled dose of BDP , the addition of SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol resulted in statistically significantly greater improvements in pulmonary function and asthma symptoms , and statistically significantly greater reduction in supplemental albuterol use .
The percent of patients who experienced asthma exacerbations overall was not different between groups ( i . e . , 16 . 2 % in the group receiving SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol versus 17 . 9 % in the higher - dose beclomethasone dipropionate group ) .
Two randomized , double - blind , controlled , parallel - group clinical trials ( N = 925 ) enrolled patients ( aged 12 to 78 years ) with persistent asthma who were previously maintained but not adequately controlled on prior asthma therapy .
During the 2 - to 4 - week run - in period , all patients were switched to fluticasone propionate 88 mcg twice daily .
Patients still not adequately controlled were randomized to either the addition of SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol 42 mcg twice daily or an increase of fluticasone propionate to 220 mcg twice daily .
As compared with the increased ( 2 . 5 times ) dose of fluticasone propionate , the addition of SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol resulted in statistically significantly greater improvements in pulmonary function and asthma symptoms , and statistically significantly greater reductions in supplemental albuterol use .
Fewer patients receiving SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol experienced asthma exacerbations than those receiving the higher dose of fluticasone propionate ( 8 . 8 % versus 13 . 8 % ) .
Table 5 shows the treatment effects seen during daily treatment with SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol for 24 weeks in adolescent and adult patients with mild - to - moderate asthma .
Onset of Action : During the initial treatment day in several multiple - dose clinical trials with SEREVENT DISKUS in patients with asthma , the median time to onset of clinically significant bronchodilatation ( ≥ 15 % improvement in FEV1 ) ranged from 30 to 48 minutes after a 50 - mcg dose .
One hour after a single dose of 50 mcg of SEREVENT DISKUS , the majority of patients had ≥ 15 % improvement in FEV1 .
Maximum improvement in FEV1 generally occurred within 180 minutes , and clinically significant improvement continued for 12 hours in most patients .
Pediatric Patients : In a randomized , double - blind , controlled study ( N = 449 ) , 50 mcg of SEREVENT DISKUS was administered twice daily to pediatric patients with asthma who did and who did not receive concurrent inhaled corticosteroids .
The efficacy of salmeterol inhalation powder was demonstrated over the 12 - week treatment period with respect to periodic serial PEF ( 36 % to 39 % postdose increase from baseline ) and FEV1 ( 32 % to 33 % postdose increase from baseline ) .
Salmeterol was effective in demographic subgroup analyses ( gender and age ) and was effective when coadministered with other inhaled asthma medications such as short - acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids .
A second randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( N = 207 ) with 50 mcg of salmeterol inhalation powder via an alternate device supported the findings of the trial with the DISKUS .
Salmeterol Multi - center Asthma Research Trial : The SMART study was a randomized double - blind study that enrolled LABA - naive patients with asthma ( average age of 39 years ; 71 % Caucasian , 18 % African American , 8 % Hispanic ) to assess the safety of salmeterol ( SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol ) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy .
A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled ( N = 26 , 355 ) , which led to premature termination of the study .
The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events ( see Table 5 and Figure 2 ) .
In the total population , a higher rate of asthma - related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo ( 0 . 10 % versus 0 . 02 % , relative risk : 4 . 37 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 25 , 15 . 34 ] ) .
Post - hoc subpopulation analyses were performed .
In Caucasians , asthma - related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo ( 0 . 07 % versus 0 . 01 % , relative risk : 5 . 82 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 70 , 48 . 37 ] ) .
In African Americans also , asthma - related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo ( 0 . 31 % versus 0 . 04 % , relative risk : 7 . 26 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 89 , 58 . 94 ] ) .
Although the relative risks of asthma - related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans , the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma - related death in African American patients ( see Table 5 ) .
Post - hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed .
Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12 % of patients in each treatment arm .
Respiratory - related death or life - threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group ( 0 . 12 % [ 2 / 1 , 653 ] ) and the placebo group ( 0 . 12 % [ 2 / 1 , 622 ] ; relative risk : 1 . 0 [ 95 % CI : 0 . 1 , 7 . 2 ] ) .
All - cause hospitalization , however , was increased in the salmeterol group ( 2 % [ 35 / 1 , 653 ] ) versus the placebo group ( < 1 % [ 16 / 1 , 622 ] ; relative risk : 2 . 1 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 1 , 3 . 7 ] ) .
The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long - term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma - related death .
Table 5 : Asthma - Related Deaths in the 28 - Week Salmeterol Multi - center Asthma Research Trial ( SMART ) Salmeterol n ( % a ) Placebo n ( % a ) Relative Riskb ( 95 % Confidence Interval ) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10 , 000 Patientsc ( 95 % Confidence Interval ) Total Populationd Salmeterol : N = 13 , 176 13 ( 0 . 10 % ) 4 . 37 ( 1 . 25 , 15 . 34 ) 8 ( 3 , 13 ) Placebo : N = 13 , 179 3 ( 0 . 02 % ) Caucasian Salmeterol : N = 9 , 281 6 ( 0 . 07 % ) 5 . 82 ( 0 . 70 , 48 . 37 ) 6 ( 1 , 10 ) Placebo : N = 9 , 361 1 ( 0 . 01 % ) African American Salmeterol : N = 2 , 366 7 ( 0 . 31 % ) 7 . 26 ( 0 . 89 , 58 . 94 ) 27 ( 8 , 46 ) Placebo : N = 2 , 319 1 ( 0 . 04 % ) aLife - table 28 - week estimate , adjusted according to the patients ’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study .
bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma - related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group .
The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma - related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28 - week treatment period .
c Estimate of the number of additional asthma - related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART , assuming 10 , 000 patients received salmeterol for a 28 - week treatment period .
Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma - related death multiplied by 10 , 000 .
dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form : Caucasian , African American , Hispanic , Asian , and “ Other . ”
In addition , the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported .
The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above .
No asthma - related deaths occurred in the Hispanic ( salmeterol n = 996 , placebo n = 999 ) , Asian ( salmeterol n = 173 , placebo n = 149 ) , or “ Other ” ( salmeterol n = 230 , placebo n = 224 ) subpopulations .
One asthma - related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported ( salmeterol n = 130 , placebo n = 127 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm In 2 randomized , single - dose , crossover studies in adolescents and adults with EIB ( N = 52 ) , 50 mcg of SEREVENT DISKUS prevented EIB when dosed 30 minutes prior to exercise .
For some patients , this protective effect against EIB was still apparent up to 8 . 5 hours following a single dose ( see Table 6 ) .
Table 6 .
Results of 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm Studies in Adolescents and Adults Placebo ( N = 52 ) SEREVENT DISKUS ( N = 52 ) n % Total n % Total 0 . 5 - Hour postdose exercise challenge % Fall in FEV1 < 10 % 15 29 31 60 ≥ 10 % , < 20 % 3 6 11 21 ≥ 20 % 34 65 10 19 Mean maximal % fall in FEV1 ( SE ) - 25 % ( 1 . 8 ) - 11 % ( 1 . 9 ) 8 . 5 - Hour postdose exercise challenge % Fall in FEV1 < 10 % 12 23 26 50 ≥ 10 % , < 20 % 7 13 12 23 ≥ 20 % 33 63 14 27 Mean maximal % fall in FEV1 ( SE ) - 27 % ( 1 . 5 ) - 16 % ( 2 . 0 ) In 2 randomized studies in children aged 4 to 11 years with asthma and EIB ( N = 50 ) , a single 50 - mcg dose of SEREVENT DISKUS prevented EIB when dosed 30 minutes prior to exercise , with protection lasting up to 11 . 5 hours in repeat testing following this single dose in many patients .
14 . 3 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease In 2 clinical trials evaluating twice - daily treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg ( N = 336 ) compared with placebo ( N = 366 ) in patients with chronic bronchitis with airflow limitation , with or without emphysema , improvements in pulmonary function endpoints were greater with salmeterol 50 mcg than with placebo .
Treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS did not result in significant improvements in secondary endpoints assessing COPD symptoms in either clinical trial .
Both trials were randomized , double - blind , parallel - group studies of 24 weeks ’ duration and were identical in design , patient entrance criteria , and overall conduct .
Figure 3 displays the integrated 2 - hour postdose FEV1 results from the 2 clinical trials .
The percent change in FEV1 refers to the change from baseline , defined as the predose value on Treatment Day 1 .
To account for patient withdrawals during the study , Endpoint ( last evaluable FEV1 ) data are provided .
Patients receiving SEREVENT DISKUS 50 mcg had significantly greater improvements in 2 - hour postdose FEV1 at Endpoint ( 216 mL , 20 % ) compared with placebo ( 43 mL , 5 % ) .
Improvement was apparent on the first day of treatment and maintained throughout the 24 weeks of treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Onset of Action and Duration of Effect : The onset of action and duration of effect of SEREVENT DISKUS were evaluated in a subset of patients ( n = 87 ) from 1 of the 2 clinical trials discussed above .
Following the first 50 - mcg dose , significant improvement in pulmonary function ( mean FEV1 increase of 12 % or more and at least 200 mL ) occurred at 2 hours .
The mean time to peak bronchodilator effect was 4 . 75 hours .
As seen in Figure 4 , evidence of bronchodilatation was seen throughout the 12 - hour period .
Figure 4 also demonstrates that the bronchodilating effect after 12 weeks of treatment was similar to that observed after the first dose .
The mean time to peak bronchodilator effect after 12 weeks of treatment was 3 . 27 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SEREVENT DISKUS is supplied as a disposable teal green device containing 60 blisters .
The DISKUS inhalation device is packaged within a plastic - coated , moisture - protective foil pouch ( NDC 0173 - 0521 - 00 ) .
SEREVENT DISKUS is also supplied in an institutional pack of 1 disposable teal green unit containing 28 blisters .
The drug product is packaged within a plastic - coated , moisture - protective foil pouch ( NDC 0173 - 0520 - 00 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature ( see USP ) , 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) in a dry place away from direct heat or sunlight .
Keep out of reach of children .
The DISKUS inhalation device is not reusable .
The device should be discarded 6 weeks after removal from the moisture - protective foil pouch or after all blisters have been used ( when the dose indicator reads “ 0 ” ) , whichever comes first .
Do not attempt to take the DISKUS apart .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Medication Guide .
17 . 1 Asthma - Related Death Patients should be informed that salmeterol increases the risk of asthma - related death and may increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
Patients should be informed that SEREVENT DISKUS should not be the only therapy for the treatment of asthma and must only be used as additional therapy when long - term asthma control medications ( e . g . , inhaled corticosteroids ) do not adequately control asthma symptoms .
They should also be informed that currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long - term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma - related death from LABA . Patients should be informed that when SEREVENT DISKUS is added to their treatment regimen they must continue to use their long - term asthma control medication .
17 . 2 Not for Acute Symptoms SEREVENT DISKUS is not meant to relieve acute asthma symptoms or exacerbations of COPD and extra doses should not be used for that purpose .
Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist such as albuterol .
The physician should provide the patient with such medication and instruct the patient in how it should be used .
Patients should be instructed to notify their physicians immediately if they experience any of the following : • Decreasing effectiveness of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists • Need for more inhalations than usual of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists • Significant decrease in lung function as outlined by the physician Patients should not stop therapy with SEREVENT DISKUS without physician / provider guidance since symptoms may recur after discontinuation .
17 . 3 SEREVENT DISKUS is Not a Substitute for Corticosteroids All patients with asthma should be advised that they must also continue regular maintenance treatment with an inhaled corticosteroid if they are taking SEREVENT DISKUS .
SEREVENT DISKUS should not be used as a substitute for oral or inhaled corticosteroids .
The dosage of these medications should not be changed and they should not be stopped without consulting the physician , even if the patient feels better after initiating treatment with SEREVENT DISKUS .
17 . 4 Do Not Use Additional Long - Acting Beta2 - Agonists When patients are prescribed SEREVENT DISKUS , other LABA should not be used .
17 . 5 Risks Associated With Beta - Agonist Therapy Patients should be informed of adverse effects associated with beta2 - agonists , such as palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
17 . 6 Treatment of Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm When used for the treatment of EIB , additional doses of SEREVENT should not be used for 12 hours .
Patients who are receiving SEREVENT DISKUS twice daily should not use additional SEREVENT for prevention of EIB .
SEREVENT and DISKUS are registered trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2011 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
April 2011 SRD : 7 PI MEDICATION GUIDE SEREVENT ® [ ser ′ uh - vent ] DISKUS ® ( salmeterol xinafoate inhalation powder ) Read the Medication Guide that comes with SEREVENT DISKUS before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about SEREVENT DISKUS ?
SEREVENT DISKUS can cause serious side effects , including : • People with asthma who take long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) medicines such as salmeterol ( SEREVENT DISKUS ) , have an increased risk of death from asthma problems .
• Call your healthcare provider if breathing problems worsen over time while using SEREVENT DISKUS .
You may need a different treatment .
• Get emergency medical care if : • breathing problems worsen quickly , and • you use your rescue inhaler medicine , but it does not relieve your breathing problems .
• Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS as your only asthma medicine .
SEREVENT DISKUS must only be used with a long - term asthma - control medicine , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
• When your asthma is well controlled , your healthcare provider may tell you to stop taking SEREVENT DISKUS .
Your healthcare provider will decide if you can stop SEREVENT DISKUS without loss of asthma control .
You will continue taking your long - term asthma - control medicine , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
• Children and adolescents who take LABA medicines may have an increased risk of being hospitalized for asthma problems .
What is SEREVENT DISKUS ?
• SEREVENT DISKUS is a LABA medicine .
LABA medicines help the muscles around the airways in your lungs stay relaxed to prevent symptoms , such as wheezing and shortness of breath .
These symptoms can happen when the muscles around the airways tighten .
This makes it hard to breathe .
In severe cases , wheezing can stop your breathing and cause death if not treated right away .
• SEREVENT DISKUS is used for asthma , exercise - induced bronchospasm ( EIB ) , and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) as follows : Asthma : SEREVENT DISKUS is used in adults and children aged 4 years and older , with a long - term asthma control medicine , such as an inhaled corticosteroid : • to control symptoms of asthma , and • to prevent symptoms such as wheezing .
LABA medicines , such as SEREVENT DISKUS , increase the risk of death from asthma problems .
SEREVENT DISKUS is not for adults and children with asthma who are well controlled with a long - term asthma - control medicine , such as a low to medium dose of an inhaled corticosteroid medicine .
Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm : SEREVENT DISKUS is used to prevent wheezing caused by exercise in adults and children aged 4 years and older .
• If you have EIB only , your healthcare provider may prescribe only SEREVENT DISKUS for your condition .
• If you have EIB and asthma , your healthcare provider should also prescribe an asthma control medicine , such as an inhaled corticosteroid .
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease : SEREVENT DISKUS is used long term , 2 times each day ( morning and evening ) to control symptoms of COPD and prevent wheezing in adults with COPD .
Who should not use SEREVENT DISKUS ?
Do not take SEREVENT DISKUS : • to treat your asthma without an asthma medicine known as an inhaled corticosteroid • if you are allergic to salmeterol or any of the ingredients in SEREVENT DISKUS .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in SEREVENT DISKUS .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using SEREVENT DISKUS ?
Tell your healthcare provider about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have heart problems • have high blood pressure • have seizures • have thyroid problems • have diabetes • have liver problems • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if SEREVENT DISKUS may harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if SEREVENT DISKUS passes into your milk and if it can harm your baby .
• are allergic to SEREVENT DISKUS , any other medicines , or food products .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in SEREVENT DISKUS .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
SEREVENT DISKUS and certain other medicines , especially those used to treat infections , may interact with each other .
This may cause serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How do I use SEREVENT DISKUS ?
See the step - by - step instructions for using the SEREVENT DISKUS at the end of this Medication Guide .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS unless your healthcare provider has taught you and you understand everything .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions .
• Children should use SEREVENT DISKUS with an adult ’ s help , as instructed by the child ’ s healthcare provider .
• Use SEREVENT DISKUS exactly as prescribed .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS more often than prescribed .
• For asthma and COPD , the usual dose is 1 inhalation 2 times each day ( morning and evening ) .
The 2 doses should be about 12 hours apart .
• For preventing exercise - induced bronchospasm , take 1 inhalation at least 30 minutes before exercise .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS more often than every 12 hours .
Do not use extra SEREVENT DISKUS before exercise if you already use it 2 times each day .
• If you miss a dose of SEREVENT DISKUS , just skip that dose .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
Do not take 2 doses at one time .
• Do not use a spacer device with SEREVENT DISKUS .
• Do not breathe into SEREVENT DISKUS .
• While you are using SEREVENT DISKUS 2 times each day , do not use other medicines that contain a long - acting beta2 - agonist or LABA for any reason .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines .
• Do not stop using SEREVENT DISKUS or any of your asthma medicines unless told to do so by your healthcare provider because your symptoms might get worse .
Your healthcare provider will change your medicines as needed .
• SEREVENT DISKUS does not relieve sudden symptoms .
Always have a rescue inhaler medicine with you to treat sudden symptoms .
If you do not have an inhaled , short - acting bronchodilator , contact your healthcare provider to have one prescribed for you .
• Call your healthcare provider or get medical care right away if : • your breathing problems worsen with SEREVENT DISKUS • you need to use your rescue inhaler medicine more often than usual • your rescue inhaler medicine does not work as well for you at relieving symptoms • you need to use 4 or more inhalations of your rescue inhaler medicine for 2 or more days in a row • you use 1 whole canister of your rescue inhaler medicine in 8 weeks ’ time • your peak flow meter results decrease .
Your healthcare provider will tell you the numbers that are right for you .
• you have asthma and your symptoms do not improve after using SEREVENT DISKUS regularly for 1 week .
• after a change in your asthma medicines you have any worsening of your asthma symptoms or an increase in the need for your rescue inhaler medicine .
What are the possible side effects with SEREVENT DISKUS ?
SEREVENT DISKUS can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about SEREVENT DISKUS ? ”
• serious allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care if you get any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction : • rash • hives • swelling of the face , mouth , and tongue • breathing problems .
• sudden breathing problems immediately after inhaling your medicine • effects on heart • increased blood pressure • a fast and irregular heartbeat • chest pain • effects on nervous system • tremor • nervousness • changes in blood ( sugar , potassium ) Common side effects of SEREVENT DISKUS include : Asthma in adults and children : • headache • nasal congestion • bronchitis • throat irritation • runny nose • flu Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease : • headache • musculoskeletal pain • throat irritation • cough • respiratory infection Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects with SEREVENT DISKUS .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store SEREVENT DISKUS ?
• Store SEREVENT DISKUS at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep in a dry place away from heat and sunlight .
• Safely discard SEREVENT DISKUS 6 weeks after you remove it from the foil pouch , or after the dose indicator reads “ 0 ” , whichever comes first .
• Keep SEREVENT DISKUS and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about SEREVENT DISKUS Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes not mentioned in a Medication Guide .
Do not use SEREVENT DISKUS for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your SEREVENT DISKUS to other people , even if they have the same condition that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about SEREVENT DISKUS .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about SEREVENT DISKUS that was written for healthcare professionals .
You can also contact the company that makes SEREVENT DISKUS ( toll free ) at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or at www . serevent . com .
What are the ingredients in SEREVENT DISKUS ?
Active ingredient : salmeterol xinafoate Inactive ingredient : lactose ( contains milk proteins ) Instructions for Using SEREVENT DISKUS Follow the instructions below for using your SEREVENT DISKUS .
You will breathe in ( inhale ) the medicine from the DISKUS .
If you have any questions , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Take the SEREVENT DISKUS out of the box and foil pouch .
Write the “ Pouch opened ” and “ Use by ” dates on the label on top of the DISKUS .
The “ Use by ” date is 6 weeks from date of opening the pouch .
• The DISKUS will be in the closed position when the pouch is opened .
• The dose indicator on the top of the DISKUS tells you how many doses are left .
The dose indicator number will decrease each time you use the DISKUS .
After you have used 55 doses from the DISKUS , the numbers 5 to 0 will appear in red to warn you that there are only a few doses left ( see Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Taking a dose from the DISKUS requires the following 3 simple steps : Open , Click , Inhale .
1 .
OPEN Hold the DISKUS in one hand and put the thumb of your other hand on the thumbgrip .
Push your thumb away from you as far as it will go until the mouthpiece appears and snaps into position ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
CLICK Hold the DISKUS in a level , flat position with the mouthpiece towards you .
Slide the lever away from you as far as it will go until it clicks ( see Figure 3 ) .
The DISKUS is now ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Every time the lever is pushed back , a dose is ready to be inhaled .
This is shown by a decrease in numbers on the dose counter .
To avoid releasing or wasting doses once the DISKUS is ready : • Do not close the DISKUS .
• Do not tilt the DISKUS .
• Do not play with the lever .
• Do not move the lever more than once .
3 .
INHALE Before inhaling your dose from the DISKUS , breathe out ( exhale ) fully while holding the DISKUS level and away from your mouth ( see Figure 4 ) .
Remember , never breathe out into the DISKUS mouthpiece .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Put the mouthpiece to your lips ( see Figure 5 ) .
Breathe in quickly and deeply through the DISKUS .
Do not breathe in through your nose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the DISKUS from your mouth .
Hold your breath for about 10 seconds , or for as long as is comfortable .
Breathe out slowly .
The DISKUS delivers your dose of medicine as a very fine powder .
Most patients can taste or feel the powder .
Do not use another dose from the DISKUS if you do not feel or taste the medicine .
4 .
Close the DISKUS when you are finished taking a dose so that the DISKUS will be ready for you to take your next dose .
Put your thumb on the thumbgrip and slide the thumbgrip back towards you as far as it will go ( see Figure 6 ) .
The DISKUS will click shut .
The lever will automatically return to its original position .
The DISKUS is now ready for you to take your next scheduled dose , due in about 12 hours .
( Repeat steps 1 to 4 . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remember : • Never breathe into the DISKUS .
• Never take the DISKUS apart .
• Always ready and use the DISKUS in a level , flat position .
• Do not use the DISKUS with a spacer device .
• Never wash the mouthpiece or any part of the DISKUS .
Keep it dry .
• Always keep the DISKUS in a dry place .
• Never take an extra dose , even if you did not taste or feel the medicine .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
SEREVENT and DISKUS are registered trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2010 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
December 2010 SRD : 4 MG [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 8961 - 06 Serevent ® Diskus ® ( salmeterol xinafoate inhalation powder ) 50 mcg Rx only FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Each blister contains 50 mcg of salmeterol base with lactose monohydrate .
IMPORTANT : Read the accompanying Medication Guide leaflet carefully for further information .
Discard the DISKUS ® 6 weeks after removal from the overwrap .
Fill in the dates on the DISKUS ® appropriately .
Dosage : Use only as directed by your doctor .
Store at controlled room temperature ( see USP ) , 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) in a dry place away from direct heat or sunlight .
1 DISKUS ® Inhalation Device Containing 1 Foil Strip of 60 Blisters [ MULTIMEDIA ]
