Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) 11 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) 11 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RYLAZE is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) and lymphoblastic lymphoma ( LBL ) in adult and pediatric patients 1 month or older who have developed hypersensitivity to E . coli - derived asparaginase .
RYLAZE is an asparagine specific enzyme indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) and lymphoblastic lymphoma ( LBL ) in adult and pediatric patients 1 month or older who have developed hypersensitivity to E . coli - derived asparaginase .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There are two RYLAZE regimens that can be used to replace a long - acting asparaginase product .
The recommended dosages of RYLAZE are : When administered every 48 hours • • 25 mg / m2 intramuscularly every 48 hours ; When administered Monday / Wednesday / Friday • • 25 mg / m2 intramuscularly on Monday morning and Wednesday morning and 50 mg / m2 intramuscularly on Friday afternoon .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage There are two RYLAZE regimens that can be used to replace a long - acting asparaginase product .
The recommended dosages of RYLAZE are : When administered every 48 hours : • • 25 mg / m2 administered intramuscularly every 48 hours ; When administered on a Monday / Wednesday / Friday schedule : • • 25 mg / m2 intramuscularly on Monday morning and Wednesday morning , and 50 mg / m2 intramuscularly on Friday afternoon .
Administer the Friday afternoon dose 53 to 58 hours after the Wednesday morning dose ( e . g . , 8 : 00 am on Monday and Wednesday , and 1 : 00 pm to 6 : 00 pm on Friday ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 1 shows the number of RYLAZE dosages recommended for the intended duration of treatment for replacement of one dose of calaspargase pegol products ( 3 weeks of asparaginase coverage ) or one dose of pegaspargase products ( 2 weeks of asparaginase coverage ) .
See the full prescribing information for the long - acting asparaginase product to determine the total duration of administration of RYLAZE as replacement therapy .
Table 1 : Recommended Duration of RYLAZE Dosing to Replace One Long - Acting Asparaginase DoseWhen RYLAZE is Administered : Recommended Duration of RYLAZE to Replace Calaspargase Pegol Products Recommended Duration of RYLAZE to Replace Pegaspargase Products 25 mg / m2 intramuscular every 48 hours Replace one dose of calaspargase pegol products with 11 doses of RYLAZE Replace one dose of pegaspargase products with 7 doses of RYLAZE 25 mg / m2 intramuscular on Monday morning and Wednesday morning , and 50 mg / m2 intramuscular on Friday afternoon * Replace one dose of calaspargase pegol products with 9 doses of RYLAZE Replace one dose of pegaspargase products with 6 doses of RYLAZE * See bullet above for timing of 25 / 25 / 50 mg / m2 dosing of RYLAZE .
2 . 2 Recommended Premedication Premedicate patients with acetaminophen , an H - 1 receptor blocker ( such as diphenhydramine ) , and an H - 2 receptor blocker ( such as famotidine ) 30 - 60 minutes prior to administration of RYLAZE to decrease the risk and severity of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommended Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Monitor patient ’ s bilirubin , transaminases , glucose , and clinical examinations prior to treatment every 2 - 3 weeks and as indicated clinically .
If results are abnormal , monitor patients until recovery from the cycle of therapy .
If an adverse reaction occurs , modify treatment according to Table 2 .
Table 2 : Dosage ModificationsAdverse Reaction Severity * Action Hypersensitivity Reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 • • Treat the symptoms .
Grade 3 to 4 • • Discontinue RYLAZE permanently .
Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 to 4 • • Hold RYLAZE for elevations in lipase or amylase > 2 times the ULN ** , or for symptomatic pancreatitis .
• • Resume treatment when lipase and amylase are < 1 . 5 times the ULN and symptoms are resolved .
• • Discontinue RYLAZE permanently if clinical necrotizing or hemorrhagic pancreatitis is confirmed .
Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Uncomplicated thrombosis • • Hold RYLAZE .
• • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy .
• • Upon resolution of symptoms , consider resuming RYLAZE , while continuing antithrombotic therapy .
Severe or life - threatening thrombosis • • Discontinue RYLAZE permanently .
• • Treat with appropriate antithrombotic therapy .
Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 3 to 4 • • Hold RYLAZE .
• • Evaluate for coagulopathy and consider clotting factor replacement as needed .
• • Resume RYLAZE with the next scheduled dose if bleeding is controlled .
Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Total bilirubin > 3 times to ≤ 10 times the ULN • • Hold RYLAZE until total bilirubin levels decrease to ≤ 1 . 5 times the ULN .
Total bilirubin > 10 times the ULN • • Discontinue RYLAZE and do not make up missed doses .
* Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) version 5 . 0 .
** Upper limit of normal 2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Instructions Ensure that medical support is available to appropriately manage anaphylactic reactions when administering RYLAZE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If particulate matter , cloudiness , or discoloration are present , discard the vial .
• • Use aseptic technique .
• • Determine the dose , total volume of RYLAZE solution required , and the number of RYLAZE vials needed based on the individual patient ’ s BSA .
More than one vial may be needed for a full dose .
• • Withdraw the indicated injection volume of RYLAZE into the syringe for injection .
• oDo not shake the vial .
• oLimit the volume of RYLAZE at a single injection site to 2 mL .
• oIf the volume to be administered is greater than 2 mL , divide the doses equally into multiple syringes , one for each injection site .
• oDiscard the remaining unused RYLAZE in the single - dose vial .
• • Administer RYLAZE by intramuscular injection .
• oRotate injection sites .
• oDo not inject RYLAZE into scar tissue or areas that are reddened , inflamed , or swollen .
• • If the prepared dose is not used immediately , store the syringe ( s ) at room temperature 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 8 hours or refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours .
The syringe does not need to be protected from light during storage .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 10 mg / 0 . 5 mL clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 10 mg / 0 . 5 mL solution in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS RYLAZE is contraindicated in patients with a history of : • • Serious hypersensitivity reactions to Erwinia asparaginase , including anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] ; • • Serious pancreatitis during previous asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] ; • • Serious thrombosis during previous asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] ; • • Serious hemorrhagic events during previous asparaginase therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
RYLAZE is contraindicated in patients with a history of : • • Serious hypersensitivity reactions to RYLAZE , including anaphylaxis .
( 4 ) • • Serious pancreatitis during previous L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • • Serious thrombosis during previous L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) • • Serious hemorrhagic events during previous L - asparaginase therapy .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypersensitivity : Monitor for signs or symptoms .
Discontinue RYLAZE for serious reaction .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Pancreatitis : Monitor for symptoms .
Discontinue if pancreatitis occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Thrombosis : Discontinue RYLAZE for severe or life - threatening thrombosis .
Provide anticoagulation therapy as indicated .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Hemorrhage : Discontinue RYLAZE for severe or life - threatening hemorrhage .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hepatotoxicity : Discontinue RYLAZE for grade 4 increases of bilirubin .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions after the use of RYLAZE occurred in 29 % of patients in clinical trials , and it was severe in 6 % of patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Anaphylaxis was observed in 2 % of patients after intramuscular administration .
Discontinuation of RYLAZE due to hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 5 % of patients .
Hypersensitivity reactions were higher in patients who received intravenous asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn .
The intravenous route of administration is not approved .
In patients administered RYLAZE intramuscularly in clinical trials , the median number of doses of RYLAZE that patients received prior to the onset of the first hypersensitivity reaction was 12 doses ( range : 1 - 64 doses ) .
The most commonly observed reaction was rash ( 19 % ) , and 1 patient ( 1 % ) experienced a severe rash .
Hypersensitivity reactions observed with L - asparaginase class products include angioedema , urticaria , lip swelling , eye swelling , rash or erythema , blood pressure decreased , bronchospasm , dyspnea , and pruritus .
Premedicate patients prior to administration of RYLAZE as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the risk of serious allergic reactions ( e . g . , life - threatening anaphylaxis ) , administer RYLAZE in a setting with resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis ( e . g . , epinephrine , oxygen , intravenous steroids , antihistamines ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Discontinue RYLAZE in patients with serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Pancreatitis Pancreatitis , including elevated amylase or lipase , was reported in 20 % of patients in clinical trials of RYLAZE and was severe in 8 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Symptomatic pancreatitis occurred in 7 % of patients , and it was severe in 6 % of patients .
Elevated amylase or lipase without symptomatic pancreatitis was observed in 13 % of patients treated with RYLAZE .
Hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis have been reported with L - asparaginase class products .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis , which , if left untreated , could be fatal .
Evaluate patients with symptoms compatible with pancreatitis to establish a diagnosis .
Assess serum amylase and lipase levels in patients with any signs or symptoms of pancreatitis .
Discontinue RYLAZE in patients with severe or hemorrhagic pancreatitis .
In the case of mild pancreatitis , withhold RYLAZE until the signs and symptoms subside and amylase and / or lipase levels return to 1 . 5 times the ULN [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
After resolution of mild pancreatitis , treatment with RYLAZE may be resumed .
5 . 3 Thrombosis Serious thrombotic events , including sagittal sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism , have been reported in 1 % of patients following treatment with RYLAZE .
Discontinue RYLAZE for a thrombotic event , and administer appropriate antithrombotic therapy .
Consider resumption of treatment with RYLAZE only if the patient had an uncomplicated thrombosis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hemorrhage Bleeding was reported in 25 % of patients treated with RYLAZE , and it was severe in 2 % .
Most commonly observed reactions were bruising ( 12 % ) and nose bleed ( 9 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In patients treated with L - asparaginase class products , hemorrhage may be associated with increased prothrombin time ( PT ) , increased partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) , and hypofibrinogenemia .
Consider appropriate replacement therapy in patients with severe or symptomatic coagulopathy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hepatotoxicity Elevated bilirubin and / or transaminases occurred in 75 % of patients treated with RYLAZE in clinical trials , and 26 % had Grade ≥ 3 elevations .
Elevated bilirubin occurred in 28 % of patients treated with RYLAZE in clinical trials , and 2 % had Grade ≥ 3 elevations .
Elevated transaminases occurred in 73 % of patients treated with RYLAZE in clinical trials , and 25 % had Grade ≥ 3 elevations [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity .
Evaluate bilirubin and transaminases prior to treatment every 2 - 3 weeks and as indicated clinically during treatment with RYLAZE .
In the event of serious liver toxicity , discontinue treatment with RYLAZE and provide supportive care [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Pancreatic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 20 % ) are abnormal liver test , nausea , musculoskeletal pain , infection , fatigue , headache , febrile neutropenia , pyrexia , hemorrhage , stomatitis , abdominal pain , decreased appetite , drug hypersensitivity , hyperglycemia , diarrhea , pancreatitis , and hypokalemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited at 1 - 800 - 520 - 5568 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of RYLAZE described in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS reflect exposure in 167 patients administered RYLAZE intramuscularly at various dosages when used in combination with chemotherapy in study JZP458 - 201 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
These patients received a median of 4 courses of RYLAZE ( range : 1 - 15 courses ) ; 65 % of patients received at least four courses .
The safety of RYLAZE described below and in Table 3 was evaluated in study JZP458 - 201 , a multi - cohort study .
Patients received RYLAZE administered intramuscularly at dosages of 25 mg / m2 on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday or 25 mg / m2 on Monday and Wednesday , and 50 mg / m2 on Friday , for 6 doses as a replacement for a single dose of pegaspargase as a component of multi - agent chemotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The patients had a median age of 11 years ( range : 1 ‑ 25 years ) ; the majority of patients were male ( 57 % ) and White ( 68 % ) .
The patients received a median of 4 courses of RYLAZE ( range : 1 - 14 courses ) ; 65 % of patients received at least four courses .
A fatal adverse reaction ( infection ) occurred in 1 patient treated with the RYLAZE 25 / 25 / 25 mg / m2 dosage .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 60 % of patients who received the recommended dosages of RYLAZE .
The most frequent nonhematological serious adverse reactions ( in ≥ 5 % of patients ) were febrile neutropenia , infection , drug hypersensitivity , pyrexia , nausea , dehydration , stomatitis , acute kidney injury , pancreatitis , diarrhea , and viral infection .
Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 10 % of patients who received RYLAZE intramuscularly at the recommended dosages .
Adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation included pancreatitis ( 5 % ) , drug hypersensitivity ( 4 % ) , and infection ( 1 % ) .
All patients treated with the recommended dosages of RYLAZE as a component of multi - agent chemotherapy experienced neutropenia , anemia , or thrombocytopenia .
The most common nonhematological adverse reactions ( incidence > 20 % ) in patients were abnormal liver test , nausea , musculoskeletal pain , infection , fatigue , headache , febrile neutropenia , pyrexia , hemorrhage , stomatitis , abdominal pain , decreased appetite , drug hypersensitivity , hyperglycemia , diarrhea , pancreatitis , and hypokalemia .
Table 3 shows the common adverse reactions occurring in at least 15 % of the patients .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 15 % Incidence ) in Patients Receiving RYLAZE as a Component of Multi - Agent Chemotherapy in Study JZP458 - 201 Adverse Reaction RYLAZE 25 / 25 / 25 mg / m2 Intramuscular Dosagea ( N = 33 ) RYLAZE 25 / 25 / 50 mg / m2 Intramuscular Dosagea ( N = 51 ) All Grades ( % ) Grades 3 - 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grades 3 - 4 ( % ) Abnormal liver test * # 70 18 75 27 Musculoskeletal pain * 45 6 35 4 Nausea * 45 9 47 8 Fatigue * 36 18 22 18 Headache 36 0 22 0 Infection * b 36 15 27 17 Febrile neutropenia 30 30 27 27 Pyrexia 30 6 20 0 Hemorrhage * 24 0 27 6 Stomatitis 24 12 27 4 Abdominal pain * 21 0 25 2 Decreased appetite 21 6 27 6 Drug hypersensitivity * 21 6 24 2 Hyperglycemia 21 3 12 4 Diarrhea * 18 6 25 4 Tachycardia * 18 0 16 2 Cough 15 0 14 0 Dehydration 15 9 12 6 Insomnia 15 0 4 0 Peripheral neuropathy * 15 0 6 0 Pancreatitis * # 12 0 22 10 Hypokalemia 9 3 22 8 * Includes grouped terms : Abnormal liver test : alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , blood bilirubin increased , transaminases increased ; Musculoskeletal pain : arthralgia , back pain , musculoskeletal chest pain , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia , pain in extremity ; Nausea : nausea , vomiting ; Fatigue : fatigue , asthenia ; Infection : sepsis , upper respiratory tract infection , enterocolitis infectious , skin infection , bacteremia , paronychia , pneumonia , otitis externa , soft tissue infection , abdominal infection , conjunctivitis , device related infection , folliculitis , lymph gland infection , necrotizing fasciitis , perirectal abscess , peritonsillar abscess , sinusitis , subcutaneous abscess , wound infection ; Drug hypersensitivity : drug hypersensitivity , rash , infusion related reaction , lip swelling , periorbital edema , throat irritation , urticaria , dry skin , eczema , erythema , hand dermatitis , rash maculo - papular , rash papular ; Hemorrhage : contusion , epistaxis , catheter site hemorrhage , petechiae , hematochezia , menorrhagia , mouth hemorrhage , increased tendency to bruise , rectal hemorrhage ; Abdominal pain : abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper ; Diarrhea : diarrhea , colitis ; Tachycardia : sinus tachycardia , tachycardia ; Peripheral neuropathy : peripheral motor neuropathy , neuropathy peripheral , peripheral sensory neuropathy ; Pancreatitis : pancreatitis , pancreatitis acute , amylase increased , lipase increased .
* Includes adverse event terms and laboratory abnormalities Grading is based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 . 0 .
a RYLAZE was administered as a component of multi - agent chemotherapy regimens on a Monday , Wednesday , and Friday schedule .
b Does not include the following fatal adverse reactions : infection ( N = 1 ) .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 15 % of patients who received RYLAZE in combination with chemotherapy included : Gastrointestinal disorders : Abdominal discomfort , abdominal distension , constipation , gastritis General disorders and administration site conditions : Infusion site reaction , injection site reaction , pain Infections and infestations : Viral infection , bacterial infection , fungal infection Investigations : Antithrombin III decreased , blood cholesterol increased , blood fibrinogen decreased , activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Acidosis , hyperammonemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypertriglyceridemia , hypoglycemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Bone pain , muscular weakness , muscle spasms Nervous system disorders : Paresthesia , dizziness , gait disturbance , hyperammonemic encephalopathy Psychiatric disorders : Agitation , anxiety , irritability Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders : Acute respiratory distress syndrome , pulmonary edema Renal and urinary disorders : Acute kidney injury Skin and subcutaneous disorders : Pruritus Vascular disorders : Hypertension , hypotension , thrombosis 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal reproduction studies , RYLAZE can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on RYLAZE use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies , intramuscular administration of asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis resulted in structural abnormalities and embryo - fetal mortality ( see Data ) at exposures below those in patients at the recommended human dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been conducted with RYLAZE .
In embryofetal development studies , asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi was administered intramuscularly every other day during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats ( at 3 , 6 , or 12 mg / m2 ) and rabbits ( at 0 . 12 , 0 . 30 , or 0 . 48 mg / m2 ) .
In rats given 12 mg / m2 ( approximately 0 . 48 times the maximum recommended human dose ) , maternal toxicity of decreased body weight gain was observed , as was a fetal finding of increased incidence of partially undescended thymic tissue .
In rabbits , maternal toxicity consisting of decreased body weight was observed at 0 . 48 mg / m2 ( approximately 0 . 02 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Increased post - implantation loss , a decrease in the number of live fetuses , and gross abnormalities ( e . g . , absent kidney , absent accessory lung lobe , additional subclavian artery , and delayed ossification ) were observed at doses of ≥ 0 . 12 mg / m2 ( approximately 0 . 005 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with RYLAZE and for 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential RYLAZE can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating RYLAZE .
Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraceptive methods during treatment with RYLAZE and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of RYLAZE in the treatment of ALL and LBL have been established in pediatric patients 1 month to < 17 years who have developed hypersensitivity to a long - acting E . coli - derived asparaginase .
Use of RYLAZE in these age groups is supported by evidence from an adequate and well - controlled study in adults and pediatric patients .
The trial included 139 pediatric patients , including 2 infants ( 1 month to < 2 years ) , 99 children ( 2 years to < 12 years old ) , and 38 adolescents ( 12 years to < 17 years old ) .
There were no clinically meaningful differences in safety or nadir serum asparaginase activity across age groups .
The safety and effectiveness of RYLAZE have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 1 month of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of RYLAZE did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn contains an asparagine specific bacterial enzyme ( L - asparaginase ) .
L - asparaginase is a tetrameric enzyme that consists of four identical 35 kDa subunits with a combined molecular weight of 140 kDa .
The amino acid sequence is identical to native asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi ( also known as crisantaspase ) .
The activity of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is expressed in units , defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1μmol of L - asparagine per reaction minute , per mg of protein .
Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is produced by fermentation of a genetically engineered Pseudomonas fluorescens bacterium containing the DNA which encodes for asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi .
RYLAZE ( asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn ) injection is supplied as a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution for intramuscular injection .
Each 0 . 5 mL contains 10 mg asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn and the inactive ingredients : polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 1 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 1 . 5 mg ) , sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ( 0 . 8 mg ) , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate ( 0 . 6 mg ) , and trehalose dihydrate ( 32 . 1 mg ) .
Sodium hydroxide may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . The pH is approximately 7 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the amino acid L - asparagine into aspartic acid and ammonia .
The pharmacological effect of RYLAZE is based on the killing of leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma asparagine .
Leukemic cells with low expression of asparagine synthetase have a reduced ability to synthesize asparagine , and therefore depend on an exogenous source of asparagine for survival .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic parameters of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn are presented based on serum asparaginase activity ( SAA ) after administration of RYLAZE in pediatric and young adult patients with ALL or LBL , unless otherwise specified .
Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn maximum SAA ( Cmax ) and area under the SAA - time curve ( AUC ) increase proportionally over a dosage range from 12 . 5 to 50 mg / m2 ( 0 . 25 to 1 times the maximum approved recommended dose of 50 mg / m2 ) .
The simulated exposures for asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn after administration of the approved recommended dosages in a virtual population are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Simulated RYLAZE Pharmacokinetic Parameters Based on SAAPK Parameter Geometric Mean ( % CV ) After Last Dose 25 mg / m2 Intramuscularly Every 48 Hours 25 / 25 / 50 mg / m2 Intramuscularly Monday , Wednesday , Friday Last 25 mg / m2 Wednesday morning dose Last 50 mg / m2 Friday afternoon dose Cmax ( U / mL ) 2 . 3 ( 55 % ) 2 . 3 ( 54 % ) 4 . 1 ( 57 % ) Ctrough ( U / mL ) 0 . 46 ( 75 % ) 0 . 3 ( 75 % ) a 0 . 39 ( 87 % ) b a Ctrough at maximum interval of 58 hours after the last 25 mg / m2 Wednesday morning dose .
b Ctrough at maximum interval of 67 hours after the last 50 mg / m2 Friday afternoon dose .
Absorption The median ( min , max ) Tmax of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn after intramuscular administration is 12 ( 8 , 24 ) hours .
The mean absolute bioavailability after intramuscular administration is 37 % in healthy subjects .
Distribution The geometric mean ( % CV ) volume of distribution of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is 1 . 37 L / m2 ( 47 % ) .
Elimination The geometric mean ( % CV ) clearance of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is 0 . 17 L / hour / m2 ( 42 % ) and the apparent half - life is 15 . 9 ( 11 % ) hours .
Metabolism Asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn is expected to be metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways .
Specific Populations There were no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn based on age ( 1 . 4 to 25 years ) , weight ( 9 to 131 kg ) , or sex after the dose was adjusted by body surface area ( BSA ) .
The effect of renal and hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn has not been studied .
Body Surface Area The volume of distribution and clearance of asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn increase with increasing BSA ( 0 . 44 to 2 . 53 m2 ) .
Racial and Ethnic Groups Black or African American patients had 29 % lower clearance which may increase SAA exposure compared to White and Asian patients .
There were no clinically significant differences in clearance between Hispanic and Non - Hispanic patients .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti ‑ drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of RYLAZE or of other asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) products .
During treatment in Study JZP458 - 201 ( range 1 to 15 courses ) , 78 / 166 ( 47 % ) of patients treated with RYLAZE intramuscularly developed anti - asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn antibodies .
The effects of anti - drug antibodies on pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics , and effectiveness have not been adequately characterized .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and impairment of fertility studies have not been conducted with asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn .
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats , asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi had no effect on male or female fertility when administered intramuscularly at doses of up to 12 mg / m2 ( approximately 0 . 48 times the maximum recommended human dose ) every other day for a total of 35 doses .
In males , decreased sperm count was observed at all doses but did not impact fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of RYLAZE for the treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) or lymphoblastic lymphoma ( LBL ) who have developed hypersensitivity to E . coli - derived asparaginase as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen was evaluated in Study JZP458 - 201 ( NCT04145531 ) , an open - label , multi - cohort , multi - center trial .
In this trial , RYLAZE was administered at various dosages and routes of administration every Monday , Wednesday , and Friday for a total of 6 doses to replace each dose of pegaspargase .
For the 225 evaluable patients , the median age was 10 years ( range : 1 - 25 years ) ; 61 % were male and 39 % were female ; 69 % were White , 11 % were Black / African American , 4 % were Asian , and 16 % were of other or unknown race : 187 ( 83 % ) patients had experienced a hypersensitivity reaction ( Grade ≥ 3 ) to pegaspargase , and 15 patients ( 7 % ) reported silent inactivation .
The determination of efficacy was based on a demonstration of the achievement and maintenance of nadir serum asparaginase activity ( NSAA ) above the level of 0 . 1 U / mL by simulation .
Table 5 shows the proportion with NSAA ≥ 0 . 1 U / mL for each approved dosage regimen based on simulation in a virtual population [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 5 : Proportion ( 95 % CI ) with NSAA ≥ 0 . 1 U / mL by SimulationRYLAZE Dosage Trough Sampling Time Proportion with NSAA > 0 . 1 U / mL ( 95 % CI ) a 25 mg / m2 intramuscularly every 48 hours 48 hours 96 . 0 ( 94 . 4 , 97 . 2 ) 25 / 25 / 50 mg / m2 intramuscularly Monday morning / Wednesday morning / Friday afternoon Friday afternoon : 58 hours after 25 mg / m2 Wednesday morning doseb 91 . 6 ( 90 . 4 , 92 , 8 ) Monday morning : 67 hours after 50 mg / m2 Friday afternoon dosec 91 . 4 ( 90 . 1 , 92 . 6 ) a Based on 2 , 000 virtual subjects .
b Based on maximum interval of 58 hours between the Wednesday morning and Friday afternoon doses .
c Based on maximum interval of 67 hours between the Friday afternoon and Monday morning doses .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RYLAZE ( asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn ) injection is supplied as a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution in single - dose vials .
Each single - dose vial ( NDC 68727 - 900 - 01 ) contains 10 mg / 0 . 5 mL asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn .
Each carton of RYLAZE ( NDC 68727 - 900 - 03 ) contains 3 single - dose vials .
Store RYLAZE vials refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not shake or freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Hypersensitivity Inform patients of the risk of allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis .
Instruct the patient on the symptoms of allergic reactions and to seek medical advice immediately if they experience such symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Pancreatitis Instruct patients on signs and symptoms of pancreatitis and to seek medical attention if they experience severe abdominal pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Thrombosis Instruct patients on the risk of thrombosis and to seek medical advice immediately if they experience headache , arm or leg swelling , shortness of breath , and chest pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Hemorrhage Advise patients to report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • Hepatotoxicity Advise patients to report any jaundice , severe nausea or vomiting , or easy bleeding or bruising to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• • Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective non - hormonal contraception during treatment with RYLAZE and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with RYLAZE and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Dublin , Ireland U . S . License No . 2167 Distributed by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 3170 Porter Drive , Palo Alto , CA 94304 Protected by U . S . Patent nos . 8 , 288 , 127 and 10 , 787 , 671 RYLAZE ® is a trademark of Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc or its subsidiaries .
© 2022 Jazz Pharmaceuticals PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 vials ( NDC 68727 - 900 - 01 ) 1 carton ( NDC 68727 - 900 - 03 ) asparaginase erwinia chrysanthemi ( recombinant ) - rywn RYLAZE ™ Injection , for intramuscular use 10 mg / 0 . 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
