WARNING - INTRAVENOUS USE Severe reactions , including fatalities , have occurred during and immediately after the parenteral administration of Phytonadione .
Typically these severe reactions have resembled hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis , including shock and cardiac and / or respiratory arrest .
Some patients have exhibited these severe reactions on receiving Phytonadione for the first time .
The majority of these reported events occurred following intravenous administration , even when precautions have been taken to dilute the Phytonadione and to avoid rapid infusion .
Therefore , the INTRAVENOUS route should be restricted to those situations where another route is not feasible and the increased risk involved is considered justified .
DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin , which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , odorless or nearly odorless liquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C31H46O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP , is a yellow , sterile , aqueous colloidal solution of vitamin K1 , with a pH of 3 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
It is available for injection by the intravenous , intramuscular , and subcutaneous routes .
Each 0 . 5 mL contains 1 mg phytonadione ( Vitamin K1 ) , 10 mg polysorbate 80 , 10 . 4 mg propylene glycol , 0 . 17 mg sodium acetate anhydrous , and 0 . 0002 mL glacial acetic acid .
Additional glacial acetic acid or sodium acetate anhydrous may have been added to adjust pH to meet USP limits of 3 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
The air above the liquid in the individual containers has been displaced by flushing with nitrogen during the filling operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phytonadione aqueous colloidal solution of vitamin K1 for parenteral injection , possesses the same type and degree of activity as does naturally - occurring vitamin K , which is necessary for the production via the liver of active prothrombin ( factor II ) , proconvertin ( factor VII ) , plasma thromboplastin component ( factor IX ) , and Stuart factor ( factor X ) .
The prothrombin test is sensitive to the levels of three of these four factors — II , VII , and X . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the post - translational carboxylation of multiple , specific , peptide - bound glutamic acid residues in inactive hepatic precursors of factors II , VII , IX , and X .
The resulting gamma carboxyglutamic acid residues convert the precursors into active coagulation factors that are subsequently secreted by liver cells into the blood .
Phytonadione is readily absorbed following intramuscular administration .
After absorption , phytonadione is initially concentrated in the liver , but the concentration declines rapidly .
Very little vitamin K accumulates in tissues .
Little is known about the metabolic fate of vitamin K . Almost no free unmetabolized vitamin K appears in bile or urine .
In normal animals and humans , phytonadione is virtually devoid of pharmacodynamic activity .
However , in animals and humans deficient in vitamin K , the pharmacological action of vitamin K is related to its normal physiological function , that is , to promote the hepatic biosynthesis of vitamin K dependent clotting factors .
The action of the aqueous colloidal solution , when administered intravenously , is generally detectable within an hour or two and hemorrhage is usually controlled within 3 to 6 hours .
A normal prothrombin level may often be obtained in 12 to 14 hours .
In the prophylaxis and treatment of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn , phytonadione has demonstrated a greater margin of safety than that of the water - soluble vitamin K analogues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP is indicated in : • anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn ; • hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; • other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
CONTRAINDICATION Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione .
It takes a minimum of 1 to 2 hours for measurable improvement in the prothrombin time .
Whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe .
Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin .
When vitamin K1 is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with vitamin K1 may restore conditions originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Repeated large doses of vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to vitamin K may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to vitamin K . PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants may result , especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used .
If relatively large doses have been employed , it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin - depressing anticoagulant , or to use one which acts on a different principle , such as heparin sodium .
Laboratory Tests Prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility have not been conducted with phytonadione .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phytonadione .
It is also not known whether phytonadione can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phytonadione should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when phytonadione is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in newborns , particularly in premature infants , may be related to the dose of phytonadione .
Therefore , the recommended dose should not be exceeded ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid reactions and deaths have been reported following parenteral administration .
The majority of these reported events occurred following intravenous administration ( see Box Warning . )
The possibility of allergic sensitivity , including an anaphylactoid reaction , should be kept in mind following parenteral administration .
Transient " flushing sensations " and " peculiar " sensations of taste have been observed , as well as rare instances of dizziness , rapid and weak pulse , profuse sweating , brief hypotension , dyspnea , and cyanosis .
Pain , swelling , and tenderness at the injection site may occur .
Infrequently , usually after repeated injection , erythematous , indurated , pruritic plaques have occurred ; rarely , these have progressed to scleroderma - like lesions that have persisted for long periods .
In other cases , these lesions have resembled erythema perstans .
Hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the newborn following administration of phytonadione .
This has occurred rarely and primarily with doses above those recommended .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous LD50 of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP in the mouse is 41 . 5 and 52 mL / kg for the 0 . 2 % and 1 . 0 % concentrations , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Whenever possible , phytonadione should be given by the subcuteanous route ( see Box WARNING ) .
When intravenous or intramuscular administration is considered unavoidable , the drug should be injected very slowly , not exceeding 1 mg per minute .
Protect from light at all times .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Directions for Dilution Phytonadione may be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection .
Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Therefore , all of the above diluents should be preservative - free .
( See WARNINGS ) Other diluents should not be used .
When dilutions are indicated , administration should be started immediately after mixture with the diluent , and unused portions of the dilution should be discarded , as well as unused contents of the vial .
Prophylaxis of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that vitamin K1 be given to the newborn .
A single intramuscular dose of phytonadione 0 . 5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended .
Treatment of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn Empiric administration of vitamin K1 should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism .
A prompt response ( shortening of the prothrombin time in 2 to 4 hours ) following administration of vitamin K1 is usually diagnostic of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn , and failure to respond indicates another diagnosis or coagulation disorder .
Phytonadione 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants .
Whole blood or component therapy may be indicated if bleeding is excessive .
This therapy , however , does not correct the underlying disorder and phytonadione should be given concurrently .
Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant therapy - 2 . 5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended .
In rare instances 50 mg may be required .
Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition ( see WARNINGS ) .
If in 6 to 8 hours after parenteral administration the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily , the dose should be repeated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In the event of shock or excessive blood loss , the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated .
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults A dosage of 2 . 5 to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) is recommended , the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained .
If possible , discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms ( such as salicylates , antibiotics ) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione .
The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In unit use packages containing one single dose vial and a SAF - T - JET ® vial injector , 27 G . x 1 / 2 " needle .
Phytonadione Injection USP , 1 mg in 0 . 5 mL Stock No . 1240 NDC 0548 - 1240 - 00 Twenty - five unit use packages per carton .
Syringe Assembly Directions : See User Guide USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not remove from carton or assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from light .
INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED SO .
EL MONTE , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company Rev . 9 - 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Safety Needle USER GUIDE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SAMPLE PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
