DESCRIPTION Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension contains a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
Loteprednol etabonate is a white to off - white powder .
Loteprednol etabonate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C24H31ClO7 Mol .
Wt .
466 . 96 Chemical Name : Chloromethyl 17α - [ ( ethoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - 11β - hydroxy - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carboxylate Each mL contains ACTIVE : Loteprednol Etabonate 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) ; INACTIVES : Edetate Disodium , Glycerin , Povidone , Water for Injection and Tyloxapol .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust the pH to 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 .
The suspension is essentially isotonic with a tonicity of 250 to 310 mOsmol / kg .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride Solution ( 50 % ) 0 . 2 mg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Corticosteroids are capable of producing a rise in intraocular pressure .
Loteprednol etabonate is structurally similar to other corticosteroids .
However , the number 20 position ketone group is absent .
It is highly lipid soluble which enhances its penetration into cells .
Loteprednol etabonate is synthesized through structural modifications of prednisolone - related compounds so that it will undergo a predictable transformation to an inactive metabolite .
Based upon in vivo and in vitro preclinical metabolism studies , loteprednol etabonate undergoes extensive metabolism to inactive carboxylic acid metabolites .
Results from a bioavailability study in normal volunteers established that plasma levels of loteprednol etabonate and Δ1 cortienic acid etabonate ( PJ 91 ) , its primary , inactive metabolite , were below the limit of quantitation ( 1 ng / mL ) at all sampling times .
The results were obtained following the ocular administration of one drop in each eye of 0 . 5 % loteprednol etabonate 8 times daily for 2 days or 4 times daily for 42 days .
This study suggests that limited ( < 1 ng / mL ) systemic absorption occurs with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension .
CLINICAL STUDIES Post - Operative Inflammation : Placebo - controlled clinical studies demonstrated that loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is effective for the treatment of anterior chamber inflammation as measured by cell and flare .
Uveitis : Controlled clinical studies of patients with uveitis demonstrated that loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension was less effective than prednisolone acetate 1 % .
Overall , 72 % of patients treated with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension experienced resolution of anterior chamber cell by day 28 , compared to 87 % of patients treated with 1 % prednisolone acetate .
The incidence of patients with clinically significant increases in IOP ( ≥ 10 mmHg ) was 1 % with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension and 6 % with prednisolone acetate 1 % .
Giant Papillary Conjunctivitis : Placebo - controlled clinical studies demonstrated that loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension was effective in reducing the signs and symptoms of giant papillary conjunctivitis after 1 week of treatment and continuing for up to 6 weeks while on treatment .
Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis : A placebo - controlled clinical study demonstrated that loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension was effective in reducing the signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis during peak periods of pollen exposure .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is indicated for the treatment of steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea and anterior segment of the globe such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitides , when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation .
Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is less effective than prednisolone acetate 1 % in two 28 - day controlled clinical studies in acute anterior uveitis , where 72 % of patients treated with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension experienced resolution of anterior chamber cells , compared to 87 % of patients treated with prednisolone acetate 1 % .
The incidence of patients with clinically significant increases in IOP ( ≥ 10 mmHg ) was 1 % with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension and 6 % with prednisolone acetate 1 % .
Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension should not be used in patients who require a more potent corticosteroid for this indication .
Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is also indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation following ocular surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
PRECAUTIONS General For ophthalmic use only .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 14 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
If pain develops , redness , itching or inflammation becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to consult a physician .
As with all ophthalmic preparations containing benzalkonium chloride , patients should be advised not to wear soft contact lenses when using loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of loteprednol etabonate .
Loteprednol etabonate was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma tk assay , or in a chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , three in vitro tests . In vivo evidence of genotoxicity , an increased frequency of micronucleated immature erythrocytes , was not observed in mice that received a single 4 gm / kg dose of loteprednol etabonate ( 50 , 000 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) .
Treatment of male and female rats with up to 50 mg / kg / day and 25 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate , respectively , ( 600 and 300 times the maximum clinical dose , respectively ) prior to and during mating did not impair fertility in either gender .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Loteprednol etabonate has been shown to be embryotoxic ( delayed ossification ) and teratogenic ( increased incidence of meningocele , abnormal left common carotid artery , and limb flexures ) when administered orally to rabbits during organogenesis at a dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( 35 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) , a dose which caused no maternal toxicity .
The no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for these effects was 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) .
Oral treatment of rats during organogenesis with 50 mg / kg / day or 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 and 1 , 200 times the maximum clinical dose ) resulted in embryotoxicity ( increased post - implantation losses with 100 mg / kg / day , and decreased fetal body weight and skeletal ossification with 50 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day ) ; doses of 5 mg / kg / day ( 60 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) , 50 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day caused teratogenicity ( absent innominate artery at all doses , and cleft palate and umbilical hernia at 50 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day ) .
Loteprednol etabonate was maternally toxic ( significantly reduced body weight gain during treatment ) when administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses of 5 mg / kg / day to 100 mg / kg / day but not at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day .
The NOELs for the embryotoxic and teratogenic effects in rats were 5 mg / kg / day and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 60 and 6 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) for embryotoxicity and teratogenicity , respectively .
Oral exposure of pregnant rats to 5 mg / kg / day and 50 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate during the fetal period , a maternally toxic treatment regimen ( significantly decreased body weight gain ) , resulted in teratogenicity ( umbilical herniation ) and embryotoxicity ( decreased fetal birth weight ) ; the NOEL for these effects was 0 . 5 mg / kg / day .
Oral exposure of female rats to 50 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate from the start of the fetal period through the end of lactation , a maternally toxic treatment regimen ( significantly decreased body weight gain ) , gave rise to decreased growth and survival , and retarded development in the offspring during lactation ; the NOEL for these effects was 5 mg / kg / day .
Loteprednol etabonate had no effect on the duration of gestation or parturition when administered orally to pregnant rats at doses up to 50 mg / kg / day during the fetal period .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemic steroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
Ocular adverse reactions occurring in 5 % to 15 % of patients treated with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ( 0 . 2 % to 0 . 5 % ) in clinical studies included abnormal vision / blurring , burning on instillation , chemosis , discharge , dry eyes , epiphora , foreign body sensation , itching , injection , and photophobia .
Other ocular adverse reactions occurring in less than 5 % of patients include conjunctivitis , corneal abnormalities , eyelid erythema , keratoconjunctivitis , ocular irritation / pain / discomfort , papillae , and uveitis .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying ocular disease being studied .
Non - ocular adverse reactions occurred in less than 15 % of patients .
These include headache , rhinitis and pharyngitis .
In controlled , randomized studies of individuals treated for 28 days or longer with loteprednol etabonate , the incidence of significant elevation of intraocular pressure ( ≥ 10 mmHg ) was 2 % ( 15 / 901 ) among patients receiving loteprednol etabonate , 7 % ( 11 / 164 ) among patients receiving 1 % prednisolone acetate and 0 . 5 % ( 3 / 583 ) among patients receiving placebo .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE VIGOROUSLY BEFORE USING .
Steroid Responsive Disease Treatment : Apply one to two drops of loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye ( s ) four times daily .
During the initial treatment within the first week , the dosing may be increased , up to 1 drop every hour , if necessary .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Post - Operative Inflammation : Apply one to two drops of loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension into the conjunctival sac of the operated eye ( s ) four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
HOW SUPPLIED Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension is supplied in a white opaque LDPE plastic dropper bottle with LDPE white opaque plug and HDPE pilfer - proof pink cap as follows : 5 mL ( NDC 62756 - 232 - 90 ) 10 mL ( NDC 62756 - 232 - 55 ) 15 mL ( NDC 62756 - 232 - 56 ) Storage : Store upright between 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
DO NOT FREEZE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx only Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Medicare Ltd .
Baska Ujeti Road , Ujeti , Halol - 389350 , Gujarat , India .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Version Date : ISS .
08 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 62756 - 232 - 90 Loteprednol Etabonate Ophthalmic Suspension 0 . 5 % For Ophthalmic Use Only Rx only Sterile 5 mL SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Label NDC 62756 - 232 - 90 Loteprednol Etabonate Ophthalmic Suspension 0 . 5 % For Ophthalmic Use Only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
