Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Sunscreen Homosalate 8 . 0 % Sunscreen Octisalate 4 . 0 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Store below 30 ° C / 86 ° F and avoid direct sunlight .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Directions • Apply daily as the last step in your morning routine on your face , neck and decolletage .
• Apply liberally and evenly 20 minutes before sun exposure .
• Layer with additional sunscreen that is water - resistant especially when going outdoor and to the beach .
• Reapply every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad - spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 .
p . m . • Wear a long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Aqua / Water / Eau , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Cyclopentasiloxane , Isostearyl Neopentanoate , Glycerin , Cyclohexasiloxane , Ceteareth - 20 , Chondrus Crispus Extract , Cetearyl Alcohol , Prunus Armeniaca Kernel Oil , Panthenyl Triacetate , Hydrolyzed Hyaluronic Acid , Tocopherol , Glycine Soja Oil , Panthenol , Serine , Allantoin , Sodium Hyaluronate Crosspolymer , Sorbitol , Urea , Caprylyl Glycol , Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Xanthan Gum , PEG - 40 Stearate , Triacontanyl PVP , Silica , Cetyl Dimethicone , Ethyl Linoleate , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Pentylene Glycol , Oleyl Alcohol , Disodium EDTA , Lactic Acid , Fragrance / Parfum , Sodium Lactate , Sodium Chloride , Ethylhexylglycerin , CI 77491 , CI 77492 , Limonene , Linalool .
Other information Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions ?
Contact ( 626 ) 616 - 5811 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Tube Carton SAND & SKY Tinted Glow Primer SPF30 Base De Teint Éclat SPF30 Lightweight UVA + UVB Broad Spectrum SPF30 Universal Tint Net 60 mL / 2 . 03 fl .
oz .
US [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
