[ MULTIMEDIA ] To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets and other antibacterial drugs , Methenamine Hippurate Tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are a urinary tract antiseptic drug .
Each white , scored tablet contains methenamine hippurate 1 g ( see HOW SUPPLIED ) .
Methenamine Hippurate Tablets also contain : magnesium stearate , povidone and saccharin sodium .
Chemically , methenamine hippurate is the hippuric acid salt of methenamine ( hexamethylenetetramine ) .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C15H21N5O3 Molecular Weight 319 . 37 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methenamine hippurate is readily absorbed from the GI tract .
Methenamine distributes widely into body fluids , but very little is hydrolyzed prior to excretion in the kidney and thus has minimal systemic toxic potential .
Within one - half hour after a single 1 g dose of a Methenamine Hippurate Tablet , antibacterial activity is demonstrable in the urine .
Urine shows continuous antibacterial activity when Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are administered at the recommended dosage schedule of 1 g twice daily .
Over 90 % of the methenamine moiety is excreted in the urine within twenty - four hours after administration of a single 1 g dose .
Similarly , the hippurate moiety is rapidly absorbed and excreted , and it reaches the urine by both tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
This may be of importance in older patients or those with some degree of renal impairment .
Methenamine is placentally transferred to the fetus during pregnancy .
Microbiology : Methenamine hippurate exerts its activity because the methenamine component is hydrolyzed to formaldehyde in acid urine .
Hippuric acid , the other component , acts to keep the urine acid .
The minimal inhibitory concentrations are significantly lower in more acidic media ; therefore , the efficacy of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets can be increased by acidification of urine ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Microorganisms do not develop resistance to formaldehyde ; however urea - splitting microorganisms ( e . g . Proteus species ) tend to raise the pH of the urine thus inhibiting the release of formaldehyde .
When the urine pH is 6 and the daily urine volume is 1000 - 1500 mL a 2 g dose of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets daily will yield a urinary concentration of 18 to 60 μg / mL of formaldehyde , this being more than the minimal inhibitory concentration for most urinary pathogens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets and other antibacterial drugs , Methenamine Hippurate Tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are indicated for prophylactic or suppressive treatment of frequently recurring urinary tract infections when long - term therapy is considered necessary .
This drug should only be used after eradication of the infection by other appropriate antimicrobial agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe hepatic insufficiency , or severe dehydration .
It should not be used as the sole therapeutic agent in acute parenchymal infections causing systemic symptoms .
WARNINGS Patients with pre - existing hepatic insufficiency may suffer adverse effects from the small amounts of ammonia and formaldehyde that are produced .
The classical syndrome of acute hepatic failure may be evoked in these patients .
PRECAUTIONS General : Prescribing Methenamine Hippurate Tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Large doses of methenamine ( 8 g daily for 3 to 4 weeks ) have caused bladder irritation , painful and frequent micturition , albuminuria and gross hematuria .
Care should be taken to maintain an acid pH of the urine especially when treating infections due to urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus spp .
and strains of Pseudomonas spp .
Information for Patients : Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Methenamine Hippurate Tablets should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . the common cold ) .
When Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Methenamine Hippurate Tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Laboratory Tests : In a few instances in one study , the serum transaminase levels showed a mild elevation during treatment which returned to normal while the patients were still receiving Methenamine Hippurate Tablets .
Because of this one report , it is recommended that liver function studies be performed periodically on patients receiving the drug , especially those with liver dysfunction .
Drug Interactions : The concomitant administration of methenamine hippurate and sulfamethizole or sulfathiazole is liable to result in the formation of a precipitate in the urine .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Methenamine causes spuriously elevated urinary 17 - hydroxycorticosteroid and catecholamine levels .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Methenamine Hippurate Tablets have not been evaluated for carcinogenicity or mutagenicity .
Methenamine was evaluated for mutagenicity in the Ames Salmonella / mammalian microsome test .
Five strains of Salmonella typhimurium ( TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 , TA1537 and TA1538 ) and a strain of Escherichia coli ( WP2uvrA ) were used .
At a dose of 10 , 000 μg / plate methenamine showed mutagenic activity in Salmonella typhimurium TA98 and TA100 by metabolic activation and also showed mutagenic activity in TA98 without microsomal activation .
In one large study , no evidence of carcinogenicity was found following long - term oral administration of methenamine 1 . 25 g / kg / day to rats ( 104 weeks ) and mice ( 60 weeks ) .
The same investigators also reported no suggestion of carcinogenicity resulting from five subcutaneous injections of 5 g / kg ( given on alternate days for a total dose of 25 g / kg ) .
An earlier , much smaller study showed a 50 % incidence of local sarcomas following subcutaneous injection of methenamine , totaling 25 g / kg , administered over periods of up to 15 months to rats concurrently receiving formic acid .
Methenamine hippurate , administered at a dose level of 800 mg / kg / day , did not adversely affect the fertility of female rats .
Effects on male fertility have not been adequately studied .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects .
Pregnancy category C . Oral administration of methenamine to pregnant dogs , at doses equivalent to the human dose , has been reported to cause a slight increase in the stillborn rate and slight impairment of weight gain and survival of live - born offspring .
A teratogenicity study , in which methenamine hippurate was administered to pregnant rabbits at doses approximately 3 times human dose , revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Methenamine Hippurate Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery : Methenamine Hippurate Tablets have no recognized use during labor and delivery , and their effect during these processes is unknown .
Nursing Mothers : Methenamine is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets have been reported in fewer than 3 . 5 % of patients treated .
These reactions have included the following , in decreasing order of frequency : nausea , vomiting and rarely pruritus , rash , dysuria .
Children have received Methenamine Hippurate Tablets at the recommended dosages as a prophylactic / suppressive regimen after initial treatment of acute episodes of pyuria .
Side effects were encountered in only 1 . 1 % of these children .
OVERDOSAGE Immediately after ingestion of an overdose , further absorption of the drug may be minimized by inducing vomiting or by gastric lavage , followed by administration of activated charcoal .
Fluids , either oral or parenteral , should be forced to tolerance .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet ( 1 g ) twice daily for adults and children over 12 years of age .
One - half tablet or one tablet ( 0 . 5 or 1 g ) twice daily for children 6 to 12 years of age .
The antibacterial activity of Methenamine Hippurate Tablets is greater in acid urine .
Therefore , restriction of alkalinizing foods and medications is desirable .
If necessary , as indicated by urinary pH and clinical response , supplemental acidification of the urine may be instituted .
The efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures .
HOW SUPPLIED Methenamine Hippurate Tablets are capsule - shaped , scored , white , debossed “ CL 20 ” on one side .
Each tablet contains methenamine hippurate 1 g . Bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 47781 - 577 - 01 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Up to 600 mg / kg of methenamine hippurate in a single dose have been administered intravenously to dogs and to rats without toxic effects being observed .
Chronic oral administration of 50 to 200 mg / kg / day to dogs and 800 to 6400 mg / kg / day to rats produced gastric and bladder irritation with some hemorrhagic sites and ulcerations observed at autopsy .
Amounts of methenamine hippurate equivalent to twice the recommended human dose were administered to rats for twelve months and to monkeys for six months without producing any adverse effects .
Rx only Product of France Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Pine Brook , NJ 07058 USA For Inquires Call : 1 - 866 - 770 - 3024 PI577 - 00 Rev . 03 / 2017 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 47781 - 577 - 01 Methenamine Hippurate Tablets 1 g Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
