Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( Anti - itch ) Use temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy or sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry , • seborrheic dermatitis • poison oak • psoriasis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • Other uses of this product should be undertaken only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
• for the treatment of diaper rash , Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more thatn directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectumby using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• rectal bleeding occurs .
Keep out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information • Store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) .
Inactive Ingredients aloe vera , benzyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate , mineral oil , PEG - 40 , PEG - 25 , propylene glycol , purified water , squalane , stearic acid .
Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 225 - 6999 Manufactured for : Akron Pharma , Inc .
Fairfield , NJ 07004 www . akronpharma . com Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
