Drug Facts Active ingredients Octinoxate 1 . 995 % w / v Purpose Sun Screen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply generously 15 minutes before the sun exposure • apply to cleansed skin • can be applied two coats to increase coverage • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a sun Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• store at room temperatures : 15 ° C - 30 ° C . Inactive ingredients Talc , Dimethicone , Silica , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Zinc Stearate , Diisostearyl Malate , Hexyl Laurate , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Aluminum Hydroxide , Titanium Dioxide , Phenoxyethanol , Allantoin , Dichlorobenzyl Alcohol , Magnesium Stearate , * Mica , * Iron Oxodes .
* contains one or more of these ingredients .
SPF 15 LONG LASTING UP TO 16 HR • Good Coverage • Silky , Smooth and Soft Finish • Shine Control DERMATOLOGICALLY TESTED Manufactured By : ERKUL COSMETICS San .
Tic .
A . Ş . , Petrol Ofisi Cad .
No : 1 Avcılar , ISTANBUL , TURKIYE , 34310 Phone : + 90 212 456 53 00 www . goldenrose . com . tr info @ goldenrose . com . tr MADE IN TURKIYE Distributed By : CELESTY LLC 3970 NW 167 TH ST . MIAMI GARDENS , FL 33054 – USA info @ celesty . com EU R . P : Platin Beauty Consulting UG ( haftungsbeschränkt ) Bardowicker Str .
6 , 21335 Lüneburg / GERMANY Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
