for Injection Concentrate , USP CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY ; MUST BE DILUTED PRIOR TO INJECTION .
Fliptop Vials DESCRIPTION Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP , is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of potassium chloride , USP in water for injection administered by intravenous infusion only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
They are provided in the following variety of concentrations and sizes comprising a choice of single - dose containers , all designed to provide the commonly prescribed amounts of potassium chloride for single - dose infusion after dilution in suitable large volume parenterals .
Additive Solution [ 1 ] ( conc .
& size ) K + mEq / mL KCl mg / mL mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
10 mEq / 5 mL 2 149 4 20 mEq / 10 mL 2 149 4 30 mEq / 15 mL 2 149 4 40 mEq / 20 mL 2 149 4 [ 1 ] May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The solutions contain no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and each is intended only for single - dose injection ( after dilution ) .
When smaller doses are required , discard the unused portion .
The pH is 4 . 6 ( 4 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP ( appropriately diluted ) is a parenteral fluid and electrolyte replenisher .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid material used for the plastic vials is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) and is concerned with the maintenance of body fluid composition and electrolyte balance .
Potassium participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine , the remainder in the stools and , to a small extent , in perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting , or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues , resulting in potassium depletion .
A deficiency of either potassium or chloride will lead to a deficit of the other .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP is indicated in the treatment of potassium deficiency states when oral replacement is not feasible .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP is contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered , and in patients with hyperkalemia , renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
WARNINGS Potentially Fatal Cardiac Adverse Reactions with Undiluted Intravenous Administration Direct patient injection of potassium chloride at this concentration may be instantaneously fatal .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate must be diluted before administration .
Fatal cardiac arrhythmia and cardiac arrest have occurred when potassium chloride was administered in an undiluted form .
To avoid potassium intoxication , do not infuse these solutions rapidly .
In patients with renal insufficiency , administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication and life - threatening hyperkalemia .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements , or the use of electrolyte - free dextrose solutions to which individualized electrolyte supplements may be added .
Potassium therapy should be guided primarily by serial electrocardiograms , especially in patients receiving digitalis .
Serum potassium levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
Solutions containing potassium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in the presence of renal disease , and in such instances , cardiac monitoring is recommended .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus , or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
If the administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium chloride .
It is also not known whether potassium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation , hypervolemia , and hyperkalemia .
Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and , rarely , vein irritation .
Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance .
Reactions reported with the use of potassium - containing solutions include nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , areflexia , muscular or respiratory paralysis , mental confusion , weakness , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest .
Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function , and intestinal ileus and dilatation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of fluid overload during parenteral therapy , re - evaluate the patient ' s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
In the event of overdosage with potassium - containing solutions , discontinue the infusion immediately , and institute corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
Treatment of hyperkalemia includes the following : • • Dextrose Injection USP , 10 % or 25 % , containing 10 units of crystalline insulin per 20 grams of dextrose administered intravenously , at a rate of 300 to 500 mL per hour .
• • Absorption and exchange of potassium using sodium or ammonium cycle cation exchange resin , orally and as retention enema .
• • Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
The use of potassium - containing foods or medications must be eliminated .
However , in cases of digitalization , too rapid a lowering of plasma potassium concentration can cause digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP must be diluted before administration .
Care must be taken to ensure there is complete mixing of the potassium chloride with the large volume fluid , particularly if soft or bag type containers are used .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the specific condition of each patient .
If the serum potassium level is greater than 2 . 5 mEq / liter , potassium can be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq / hour in a concentration of up to 40 mEq / liter .
The 24 - hour total dose should not exceed 200 mEq .
If urgent treatment is indicated ( serum potassium level less than 2 . 0 mEq / liter with electrocardiographic changes and / or muscle paralysis ) potassium chloride may be infused very cautiously at a rate of up to 40 mEq / hour .
In such cases , continuous cardiac monitoring is essential .
As much as 400 mEq may be administered in a 24 hour period .
In critical conditions , potassium chloride may be administered in saline ( unless contraindicated ) , rather than in dextrose containing fluids , as dextrose may lower serum potassium levels .
Prior to entering vial , remove the metal seal and cleanse the rubber closure with a suitable antiseptic agent .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
TO PREVENT NEEDLE - STICK INJURIES , NEEDLES SHOULD NOT BE RECAPPED , PURPOSELY BENT , OR BROKEN BY HAND .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP , is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 6635 - 01 Tray of 25 single - dose containers 10 mEq / 5 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6636 - 01 Tray of 25 single - dose containers 30 mEq / 15 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6651 - 06 Tray of 25 single - dose containers 20 mEq / 10 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6653 - 05 Tray of 25 single - dose containers 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by : Hospira Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1319 - 2 . 0 Revised : 10 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Vial Label Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 10 mEq / 5 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
LOT ## – ### – AA EXP DMMMYYYY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Vial Tray Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 10 mEq / 5 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
Rx only NDC 0409 - 6635 - 01 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6635 - 18 5 mL Single - dose For Intravenous use .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 20 mEq / 10 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
LOT ## – ### – AA EXP DMMMYYYY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Tray Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 20 mEq / 10 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
Rx only NDC 0409 - 6651 - 06 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6651 - 19 10 mL Single - dose For Intravenous use .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Label 20 mL Single - dose For Intravenous use .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Tray Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
Rx only NDC 0409 - 6653 - 05 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6653 - 18 20 mL Single - dose For Intravenous use .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mL Vial Label Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP 30 mEq / 15 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CONCENTRATE MUST BE DILUTED BEFORE USE .
Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] IM - 3544 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
