Active ingredient Hydrogen peroxide ( stabilized ) 3 % Purpose First aid antiseptic Oral debriding agent Use • first aid to help prevent the rise of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings for external use only Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer then 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions First aid antiseptic : • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of product on the affected area 1 to 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first Oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults and children 2 years of age and over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information keep tightly closed and at controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive ingredient purified water adverse reactions Dist .
by Meijer Distribution , Inc , Grand Rapids , MI 49544 www . meijer . com principal display panel NDC 41250 - 871 - 45 meijer DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING hydrogen peroxide TOPICAL SOLUTION U . S . P . First Aid Antiseptic Oral Debriding Agent For Treatment of Minor Cuts and Abrasions 32 FL OZ ( 946 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
