FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP for dermatologic use contain the antifungal agent nystatin and the synthetic corticosteroid triamcinolone acetonide .
Nystatin , USP is a polyene antimycotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
It is a yellow or slightly brownish powder hygroscopic with characteristics odor .
It is freely soluble in dimethylformamide , slightly soluble in methanol , practically insoluble in water , alcohol and ether .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C47H75NO17 MW 926 . 13 Triamcinolone acetonide , USP is designated chemically as 9 - fluoro - 11ß , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
It is a white to cream colored , crystalline powder , having not more than slight odor .
It is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in dehydrated alcohol , in chloroform and in methanol .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C24H31FO6 MW = 434 . 50 Each gram of Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment provides 100 , 000 USP Nystatin units and 1 mg Triamcinolone Acetonide , USP in an ointment base of mineral oil and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin Nystatin exerts its antifungal activity against a variety of pathogenic and nonpathogenic yeasts and fungi by binding to sterols in the cell membrane .
The binding process renders the cell membrane incapable of functioning as a selective barrier .
Nystatin provides specific anticandidal activity to Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species , but is not active against bacteria , protozoa , trichomonads , or viruses .
Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membranes .
Triamcinolone Acetonide Triamcinolone acetonide is primarily effective because of its anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions , characteristic of the topical corticosteroid class of drugs .
The pharmacologic effects of the topical corticosteroids are well known ; however , the mechanisms of their dermatologic actions are unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : the extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide During clinical studies of mild to severe manifestations of cutaneous candidiasis , patients treated with nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide showed a faster and more pronounced clearing of erythema and pruritus than patients treated with nystatin or triamcinolone acetonide alone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment are indicated for the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis ; it has been demonstrated that the nystatin - steroid combination provides greater benefit than the nystatin component alone during the first few days of treatment .
CONTRAINDICATIONS These preparations are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions that augment systemic absorption include application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of internal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation or hypersensitivity develops with the combination nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occluded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
• When using this medication in the inguinal area , patients should be advised to apply the ointment sparingly and to wear loose fitting clothing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
• Patients should be advised on preventive measures to avoid reinfection .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , appropriate microbiological studies ( e . g . KOH smears and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens , before instituting another course of therapy .
A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression due to corticosteroids .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential , or possible impairment of fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Category C There are no teratogenic studies with combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Therefore , any topical corticosteroid preparation should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Topical preparations containing corticosteroids should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether any component of this preparation is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised during the use of this preparation by a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use In clinical studies of a limited number of pediatric patients ranging from two months through 12 years , nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream formulation cleared or significantly ameliorated the disease state in most patients .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A single case ( approximately one percent of patients studied ) of acneiform eruption occurred with use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies .
Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups , even during prolonged use .
Rarely , irritation may occur .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids ( reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence ) : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , perioral secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) ; however , acute overdosage and serious adverse effects with dermatologic use are unlikely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin film of Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment is usually applied to the affected areas twice daily in the morning and evening .
The preparation should be discontinued if symptoms persist after 25 days of therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP is yellow colored ointment and supplied in 15 gm , 30 gm , and 60 gm tubes .
NDC 72578 - 088 - 01 in tube of 15 gm NDC 72578 - 088 - 04 in tube of 30 gm NDC 72578 - 088 - 02 in tube of 60 gm STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 304 - 5011 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Zydus Lifesciences Ltd .
Changodar , Ahmedabad , India .
Distributed by : Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cranford , NJ 07016 Rev . : 08 / 22 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72578 - 088 - 01 Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , 15 gm Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
