Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 3 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Centre right away .
Directions Directions for sunscreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Storage Other information - protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Cetearyl olivate , Tribehenin , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Hibiscus sabdariffa flower extract , Cetearyl alcohol , Sorbitan olivate , Alcohol denat . , Prunus amygdalus dulcis ( Sweet almond ) oil , Sodium polyacrylate , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Caprylyl glycol , Xanthan gum , Citric acid , Sodium benzoate , Sodium hyaluronate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Dipropylene glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Potassium hydroxide , Tocopheryl acetate , Benzoic acid , Dehydroacetic acid Description ALL BRIGHT SKINCARE COLLECTION Botanics Hydrating Day Cream All Bright Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
Brightens and protects .
Hydrates for 24 hours for normal / dry skin .
Formulated with hyaluronic acid to instantly boost moisture levels .
Hydrating Night Cream All Bright 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
Brightens and hydrates overnight for normal / dry skin .
This rich moisuriser gets to work when skin is highly receptive , promoting surface renewal for brighter looking skin by morning .
Formulated with hyaluronic acid , proven to immediately boost moisture levels , the nourishing formula leaves skin ready to face the day .
Directions : Use every evening after cleansing .
Smooth into your face and next with your finger tips avoiding your eyes .
Warnings : Avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into eyes rinse well with water immediately .
Because this product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) which may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun , we recommend using a sunscreen and limit sun exposure during and for a week after use of the product has stopped .
Ingredients : Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Prunus amygdalus dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) oil , Dimethicone , Cetearyl alcohol , Cetearyl olivate , Sorbitan olivate , Sodium polyacrylate , Hibiscus sabdariffa flower extract , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Phenoxyethanol , Xanthan gum , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Caprylyl glycol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Sodium hyaluronate , Sodium benzoate , Citric acid , Ethylhexylglycerin , Dipropylene glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Tocopheryl acetate , Benzoic acid , Dehydroacetic acid .
Refreshing Eye Roll - on All Bright 15 ml e 0 . 5 US Fl .
Oz .
This lightweight gel is quickly absorbed to help reduce the appearance of dark circles and puffiness .
The fragile under eye area feels immediately cooled and refreshed , while hyaluronic acid provides much needed hydration to dull delicate skin .
Directions : Gently roll the ball along the bone above and below the eyes morning and night .
Warnings : Avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into eyes rinse well with water immediately .
Because this product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) which may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun , we recommend using a sunscreen and limit sun exposure during and for a week after use of the product has stopped .
Ingredients : Aqua ( Water ) , Butylene glycol , Glycerin , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Hibiscus sabdariffa flower extract , Arabinogalactan , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl glycol , Sodium hyaluronate , Sodium benzoate , Menthyl lactate , Steareth - 20 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Potassium hydroxide , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , Hesperidin methyl chalcone , Chlorhexidine digluconate , N - Hydroxysuccinimide , Potassium sorbate , Benzoic acid , Dehydroacetic acid , Sodium citrate , Dipeptide - 2 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Chrysin , Biotin .
Active plant extract , Hibiscus , contains natural AHAs which mildly exfoliate to help leave skin smoother and brighter .
Our Beauty Scientists use active plant extracts approved by Royal Botanic Gardens , Kew in England to bring you beautiful skincare that ' s proven to work .
Information Made in the UK .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retain USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Jar label Boots Botanics The Power of Plants Hydrating Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 3 % , Octocrylene 5 % Warnings Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Directions : Use every morning after cleansing Information The Boots Company PLC Notingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . boots . com carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
