Expectorant SUGAR FREE / ALCOHOL FREE DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) contains : Guaifenesin 100 mg Inactive Ingredients Acesulfame K , citric acid , FD & C Green No . 3 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavoring , hydroxyethylcellulose , purified water , sodium benzoate and sodium citrate .
Sodium Content : 4 mg / 5 mL USES Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive .
WARNINGS Ask a doctor before use if you have • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if • • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• • you are hypersensitive to any of the ingredients .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Professional Note Guaifenesin has been shown to produce a color interference with certain clinical laboratory determinations of 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5 - HIAA ) and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) .
DIRECTIONS Follow dosage below or use as directed by a physician .
• • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period .
age dose adults and children 12 years and over 10 to 20 mL ( 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls ) every 4 hours children 6 years to under 12 years 5 to 10 mL ( 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls ) every 4 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 to 5 mL ( ½ to 1 teaspoonful ) every 4 hours children under 2 years of age consult a physician STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP ] Protect from light .
Distributed by Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 Principal Display Panel Guaifenesin Oral Solution , USP 200 mg / 10 mL 5 cups [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Guaifenesin Oral Solution USP 100 mg / 5 mL 5 Cups [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
