Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or highter and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , octyldodecyl neopentanoate , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , emulsifying wax NF , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , dimethicone , triethanolamine , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , propylparaben , carbomer , disodium EDTA claims Moisturizes all day .
This lightweight formula quickly absorbs into skin with no greasy feel and provides hydration that lasts all day , softening and smoothing your skin .
Protects against sun damage .
This product provides broad spectrum SPF 15 protection against harmful UVA and UVB rays that can damage your skin and cause signs of early skin aging .
Wo n't clog pores .
Oil - Free formula sinks deep into skin without clogging pores or causing breakouts .
Skin is left feeling soft and smooth • dermatologist tested • hypoallergenic • fragrance free • alcohol free ( contains no drying alcohol ) • non - comedogenic Oil Free Moisture with Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen contains a blend of humectants and emollients to hydrate your skin alone or under makeup .
This blend provides moisture to skin without clogging pores or adding shine , making this moisturizer the perfect choice for oily skin .
* This product is not manufatured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson distributor of Neutrogena Oil - Free Moisture ** vs . the 4 fl oz size of Neutrogena Oil - Free Moisture Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . and imported components principal display panel 20 % more than the national brand ** Beauty 360 Oil Free Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen Dermatologist tested UVA / UVB protection Non - comedogenic SPF 15 Compare to the active ingredients in Neutrogena Oil - Free Moisture * 4 . 8 FL OZ ( 141 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
