Dosage and Administration , Infants ( up to 12 months ) ( 2 . 1 ) 6 / 2011 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 6 / 2011 Dosage and Administration , Infants ( up to 12 months ) ( 2 . 2 ) 6 / 2011 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CREON ® ( pancrelipase ) is indicated for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis , chronic pancreatitis , pancreatectomy , or other conditions .
CREON is a combination of porcine - derived lipases , proteases , and amylases indicated for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis , chronic pancreatitis , pancreatectomy , or other conditions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CREON is not interchangeable with other pancrelipase products .
CREON is orally administered .
Therapy should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose and gradually increased .
The dosage of CREON should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet as described in the Limitations on Dosing below [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
CREON is not interchangeable with any other pancrelipase product .
( 2 . 1 ) Do not crush or chew capsules and capsule contents .
For infants or patients unable to swallow intact capsules , the contents may be sprinkled on soft acidic food , e . g . , applesauce .
( 2 . 1 ) Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines .
( 2 . 2 ) Infants ( up to 12 months ) • Prior to each feeding , infants may be given 3 , 000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or per breast - feeding .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do not mix CREON capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration .
( 2 . 1 ) Children Older than 12 Months and Younger than 4 Years • Begin with 1 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for children less than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
( 2 . 2 ) Children 4 Years and Older and Adults • Begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for those older than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
( 2 . 2 ) Adults with Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency Due to Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy • Individualize dosage based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present and the fat content of the diet .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Administration Infants ( up to 12 months ) CREON should be administered to infants immediately prior to each feeding , using a dosage of 3 , 000 lipase units per 120 mL of formula or prior to breast - feeding .
Contents of the capsule may be administered directly to the mouth or with a small amount of applesauce .
Administration should be followed by breast milk or formula .
Contents of the capsule should not be mixed directly into formula or breast milk as this may diminish efficacy .
Care should be taken to ensure that CREON is not crushed or chewed or retained in the mouth , to avoid irritation of the oral mucosa .
Children and Adults CREON should be taken during meals or snacks , with sufficient fluid .
CREON capsules and capsule contents should not be crushed or chewed .
Capsules should be swallowed whole .
For patients who are unable to swallow intact capsules , the capsules may be carefully opened and the contents added to a small amount of acidic soft food with a pH of 4 . 5 or less , such as applesauce , at room temperature .
The CREON - soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately without crushing or chewing , and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion .
Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth .
2 . 2 Dosage Dosage recommendations for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy were published following the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences . 1 , 2 , 3 CREON should be administered in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences ( also known as Conferences ) provided in the following paragraphs , except for infants .
Although the Conferences recommend doses of 2 , 000 to 4 , 000 lipase units in infants up to 12 months , CREON is available in a 3 , 000 lipase unit capsule .
Therefore , the recommended dose of CREON in infants up to 12 months is 3 , 000 lipase units per 120 mL of formula or per breast - feeding .
Patients may be dosed on a fat ingestion - based or actual body weight - based dosing scheme .
Additional recommendations for pancreatic enzyme therapy in patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy are based on a clinical trial conducted in these populations .
Infants ( up to 12 months ) CREON is available in the strength of 3 , 000 USP units of lipase thus infants may be given 3 , 000 lipase units ( one capsule ) per 120 mL of formula or per breast - feeding .
Do not mix CREON capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk prior to administration [ see Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Children Older than 12 Months and Younger than 4 Years Enzyme dosing should begin with 1 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for children less than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
Children 4 Years and Older and Adults Enzyme dosing should begin with 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal for those older than age 4 years to a maximum of 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than or equal to 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) , or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day .
Usually , half of the prescribed CREON dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack .
The total daily dose should reflect approximately three meals plus two or three snacks per day .
Enzyme doses expressed as lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be decreased in older patients because they weigh more but tend to ingest less fat per kilogram of body weight .
Adults with Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency Due to Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy The initial starting dose and increases in the dose per meal should be individualized based on clinical symptoms , the degree of steatorrhea present , and the fat content of the diet .
In one clinical trial , patients received CREON at a dose of 72 , 000 lipase units per meal while consuming at least 100 g of fat per day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Lower starting doses recommended in the literature are consistent with the 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal lowest starting dose recommended for adults in the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 Usually , half of the prescribed CREON dose for an individualized full meal should be given with each snack .
Limitations on Dosing Dosing should not exceed the recommended maximum dosage set forth by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences Guidelines . 1 , 2 , 3 If symptoms and signs of steatorrhea persist , the dosage may be increased by the healthcare professional .
Patients should be instructed not to increase the dosage on their own .
There is great inter - individual variation in response to enzymes ; thus , a range of doses is recommended .
Changes in dosage may require an adjustment period of several days .
If doses are to exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal , further investigation is warranted .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Doses greater than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic stricture , indicative of fibrosing colonopathy , in children less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients currently receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The active ingredient in CREON evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
CREON is dosed by lipase units .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
Each CREON delayed - release capsule strength contains the specified amounts of lipase , protease , and amylase as follows : • 3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 9 , 500 USP units of protease ; 15 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a white opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1203 ” and a white opaque body .
• 6 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 19 , 000 USP units of protease ; 30 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have an orange opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1206 ” and a blue opaque body .
• 12 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 38 , 000 USP units of protease ; 60 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a brown opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1212 ” and a colorless transparent body .
• 24 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 76 , 000 USP units of protease ; 120 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have an orange opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1224 ” and a colorless transparent body .
• Delayed - Release Capsules : 3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 9 , 500 USP units of protease ; 15 , 000 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) • Delayed - Release Capsules : 6 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 19 , 000 USP units of protease ; 30 , 000 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) • Delayed - Release Capsules : 12 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 38 , 000 USP units of protease ; 60 , 000 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) • Delayed - Release Capsules : 24 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 76 , 000 USP units of protease ; 120 , 000 USP units of amylase ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fibrosing colonopathy is associated with high - dose use of pancreatic enzyme replacement in the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients .
Exercise caution when doses of CREON exceed 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • To avoid irritation of oral mucosa , do not chew CREON or retain in the mouth .
( 5 . 2 ) • Exercise caution when prescribing CREON to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
( 5 . 3 ) • There is theoretical risk of viral transmission with all pancreatic enzyme products including CREON .
( 5 . 4 ) • Exercise caution when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Fibrosing Colonopathy Fibrosing colonopathy has been reported following treatment with different pancreatic enzyme products .
5 , 6 Fibrosing colonopathy is a rare , serious adverse reaction initially described in association with high - dose pancreatic enzyme use , usually over a prolonged period of time and most commonly reported in pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
The underlying mechanism of fibrosing colonopathy remains unknown .
Doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic stricture in children less than 12 years of age . 1 Patients with fibrosing colonopathy should be closely monitored because some patients may be at risk of progressing to stricture formation .
It is uncertain whether regression of fibrosing colonopathy occurs . 1 It is generally recommended , unless clinically indicated , that enzyme doses should be less than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or less than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) or less than 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Doses greater than 2 , 500 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal ( or greater than 10 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per day ) should be used with caution and only if they are documented to be effective by 3 - day fecal fat measures that indicate a significantly improved coefficient of fat absorption .
Patients receiving higher doses than 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal should be examined and the dosage either immediately decreased or titrated downward to a lower range .
5 . 2 Potential for Irritation to Oral Mucosa Care should be taken to ensure that no drug is retained in the mouth .
CREON should not be crushed or chewed or mixed in foods having a pH greater than 4 . 5 .
These actions can disrupt the protective enteric coating resulting in early release of enzymes , irritation of oral mucosa , and / or loss of enzyme activity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 1 ) ] .
For patients who are unable to swallow intact capsules , the capsules may be carefully opened and the contents added to a small amount of acidic soft food with a pH of 4 . 5 or less , such as applesauce , at room temperature .
The CREON - soft food mixture should be swallowed immediately and followed with water or juice to ensure complete ingestion .
5 . 3 Potential for Risk of Hyperuricemia Caution should be exercised when prescribing CREON to patients with gout , renal impairment , or hyperuricemia .
Porcine - derived pancreatic enzyme products contain purines that may increase blood uric acid levels .
5 . 4 Potential Viral Exposure from the Product Source CREON is sourced from pancreatic tissue from swine used for food consumption .
Although the risk that CREON will transmit an infectious agent to humans has been reduced by testing for certain viruses during manufacturing and by inactivating certain viruses during manufacturing , there is a theoretical risk for transmission of viral disease , including diseases caused by novel or unidentified viruses .
Thus , the presence of porcine viruses that might infect humans cannot be definitely excluded .
However , no cases of transmission of an infectious illness associated with the use of porcine pancreatic extracts have been reported .
5 . 5 Allergic Reactions Caution should be exercised when administering pancrelipase to a patient with a known allergy to proteins of porcine origin .
Rarely , severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus , have been reported with other pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) .
The risks and benefits of continued CREON treatment in patients with severe allergy should be taken into consideration with the overall clinical needs of the patient .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions reported with different pancreatic enzyme products of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) that are described elsewhere in the label include fibrosing colonopathy , hyperuricemia and allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
• Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2 cystic fibrosis patients ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) receiving CREON are vomiting , dizziness , and cough .
( 6 . 1 ) • Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy patient ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) receiving CREON are hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia , abdominal pain , abnormal feces , flatulence , frequent bowel movements , and nasopharyngitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Abbott Laboratories at 1 - 800 - 241 - 1643 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The short - term safety of CREON was assessed in clinical trials conducted in 121 patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) : 67 patients with EPI due to cystic fibrosis ( CF ) and 25 patients with EPI due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy were treated with CREON .
Cystic Fibrosis Studies 1 and 2 were randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover studies of 49 patients , ages 7 to 43 years , with EPI due to CF . Study 1 included 32 patients ages 12 to 43 years and Study 2 included 17 patients ages 7 to 11 years .
In these studies , patients were randomized to receive CREON at a dose of 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day or matching placebo for 5 to 6 days of treatment , followed by crossover to the alternate treatment for an additional 5 to 6 days .
The mean exposure to CREON during these studies was 5 days .
In Study 1 , one patient experienced duodenitis and gastritis of moderate severity 16 days after completing treatment with CREON .
Transient neutropenia without clinical sequelae was observed as an abnormal laboratory finding in one patient receiving CREON and a macrolide antibiotic .
In Study 2 , adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 patients ( greater than or equal to 12 % ) treated with CREON were vomiting and headache .
Vomiting occurred in 2 patients treated with CREON and did not occur in patients treated with placebo ; headache occurred in 2 patients treated with CREON and did not occur in patients treated with placebo .
The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) in Studies 1 and 2 were vomiting , dizziness , and cough .
Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 patients ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) treated with CREON at a higher rate than with placebo in Studies 1 and 2 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in at Least 2 Patients ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) in Cystic Fibrosis ( Studies 1 and 2 ) Adverse Reaction CREON Capsules n = 49 ( % ) Placebo n = 47 ( % ) Vomiting 3 ( 6 ) 1 ( 2 ) Dizziness 2 ( 4 ) 1 ( 2 ) Cough 2 ( 4 ) 0 An additional open - label , single - arm study assessed the short - term safety and tolerability of CREON in 18 infants and children , ages 4 months to 6 years , with EPI due to cystic fibrosis .
Patients received their usual pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy ( mean dose of 7 , 000 lipase units / kg / day for a mean duration of 18 . 2 days ) followed by CREON ( mean dose of 7 , 500 lipase units / kg / day for a mean duration of 12 . 6 days ) .
There were no serious adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions that occurred in patients during treatment with CREON were vomiting , irritability , and decreased appetite , each occurring in 6 % of patients .
Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study was conducted in 54 adult patients , ages 32 to 75 years , with EPI due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
Patients received single - blind placebo treatment during a 5 - day run - in period followed by an intervening period of up to 16 days of investigator - directed treatment with no restrictions on pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy .
Patients were then randomized to receive CREON or matching placebo for 7 days .
The CREON dose was 72 , 000 lipase units per main meal ( 3 main meals ) and 36 , 000 lipase units per snack ( 2 snacks ) .
The mean exposure to CREON during this study was 6 . 8 days in the 25 patients that received CREON .
The most common adverse reactions reported during the study were related to glycemic control and were reported more commonly during CREON treatment than during placebo treatment .
Table 2 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 patient ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) treated with CREON at a higher rate than with placebo .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions in at Least 1 Patient ( greater than or equal to 4 % ) in the Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy Trial Adverse Reaction CREON Capsules n = 25 ( % ) Placebo n = 29 ( % ) Hyperglycemia 2 ( 8 ) 2 ( 7 ) Hypoglycemia 1 ( 4 ) 1 ( 3 ) Abdominal Pain 1 ( 4 ) 1 ( 3 ) Abnormal Feces 1 ( 4 ) 0 Flatulence 1 ( 4 ) 0 Frequent Bowel Movements 1 ( 4 ) 0 Nasopharyngitis 1 ( 4 ) 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Postmarketing data from this formulation of CREON have been available since 2009 .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of this formulation of CREON .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders ( including abdominal pain , diarrhea , flatulence , constipation and nausea ) , skin disorders ( including pruritus , urticaria and rash ) , blurred vision , myalgia , muscle spasm , and asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes have been reported with this formulation of CREON .
Delayed - and immediate - release pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of the same active ingredient ( pancrelipase ) have been used for the treatment of patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis and other conditions , such as chronic pancreatitis .
The long - term safety profile of these products has been described in the medical literature .
The most serious adverse reactions included fibrosing colonopathy , distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( DIOS ) , recurrence of pre - existing carcinoma , and severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , asthma , hives , and pruritus .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interactions have been identified .
No formal interaction studies have been conducted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pancrelipase .
It is also not known whether pancrelipase can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
CREON should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
The risk and benefit of pancrelipase should be considered in the context of the need to provide adequate nutritional support to a pregnant woman with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency .
Adequate caloric intake during pregnancy is important for normal maternal weight gain and fetal growth .
Reduced maternal weight gain and malnutrition can be associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when CREON is administered to a nursing woman .
The risk and benefit of pancrelipase should be considered in the context of the need to provide adequate nutritional support to a nursing mother with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The short - term safety and effectiveness of CREON were assessed in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover studies of 49 patients with EPI due to cystic fibrosis , 25 of whom were pediatric patients .
Study 1 included 8 adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age .
Study 2 included 17 children between 7 and 11 years of age .
The safety and efficacy in pediatric patients in these studies were similar to adult patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
An open - label , single - arm , short - term study of CREON was conducted in 18 infants and children , ages 4 months to six years of age , with EPI due to cystic fibrosis .
Patients received their usual pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy ( mean dose of 7 , 000 lipase units / kg / day for a mean duration of 18 . 2 days ) followed by CREON ( mean dose of 7 , 500 lipase units / kg / day for a mean duration of 12 . 6 days ) .
The mean daily fat intake was 48 grams during treatment with usual pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy and 47 grams during treatment with CREON .
When patients were switched from their usual pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy to CREON , they demonstrated similar spot fecal fat testing results ; the clinical relevance of spot fecal fat testing has not been demonstrated .
Adverse reactions that occurred in patients during treatment with CREON were vomiting , irritability , and decreased appetite [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of pancreatic enzyme products with different formulations of pancrelipase consisting of the same active ingredient ( lipases , proteases , and amylases ) for treatment of children with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis have been described in the medical literature and through clinical experience .
Dosing of pediatric patients should be in accordance with recommended guidance from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Consensus Conferences [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Doses of other pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with fibrosing colonopathy and colonic strictures in children less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of CREON did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdose in clinical trials or postmarketing surveillance with this formulation of CREON .
Chronic high doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with fibrosing colonopathy and colonic strictures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
High doses of pancreatic enzyme products have been associated with hyperuricosuria and hyperuricemia , and should be used with caution in patients with a history of hyperuricemia , gout , or renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION CREON is a pancreatic enzyme preparation consisting of pancrelipase , an extract derived from porcine pancreatic glands .
Pancrelipase contains multiple enzyme classes , including porcine - derived lipases , proteases , and amylases .
Pancrelipase is a beige - white amorphous powder .
It is miscible in water and practically insoluble or insoluble in alcohol and ether .
Each delayed - release capsule for oral administration contains enteric - coated spheres ( 0 . 71 – 1 . 60 mm in diameter ) .
The active ingredient evaluated in clinical trials is lipase .
CREON is dosed by lipase units .
Other active ingredients include protease and amylase .
CREON contains the following inactive ingredients : cetyl alcohol , dimethicone , hypromellose phthalate , polyethylene glycol , and triethyl citrate .
3 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 9 , 500 USP units of protease ; 15 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a white opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1203 ” and a white opaque body .
The shells contain titanium dioxide and hypromellose .
6 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 19 , 000 USP units of protease ; 30 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a Swedish - orange opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1206 ” and a blue opaque body .
The shells contain FD & C Blue No . 2 , gelatin , red iron oxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
12 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 38 , 000 USP units of protease ; 60 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a brown opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1212 ” and a colorless transparent body .
The shells contain black iron oxide , gelatin , red iron oxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
24 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 76 , 000 USP units of protease ; 120 , 000 USP units of amylase delayed - release capsules have a Swedish - orange opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1224 ” and a colorless transparent body .
The shells contain gelatin , red iron oxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The pancreatic enzymes in CREON catalyze the hydrolysis of fats to monoglyceride , glycerol and free fatty acids , proteins into peptides and amino acids , and starches into dextrins and short chain sugars such as maltose and maltriose in the duodenum and proximal small intestine , thereby acting like digestive enzymes physiologically secreted by the pancreas .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pancreatic enzymes in CREON are enteric - coated to minimize destruction or inactivation in gastric acid .
CREON is designed to release most of the enzymes in vivo at an approximate pH of 5 . 5 or greater .
Pancreatic enzymes are not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract in appreciable amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , genetic toxicology , and animal fertility studies have not been performed with pancrelipase .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The short - term efficacy of CREON was evaluated in three studies conducted in 103 patients with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ( EPI ) .
Two studies were conducted in 49 patients with EPI due to cystic fibrosis ( CF ) ; one study was conducted in 54 patients with EPI due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
14 . 1 Cystic Fibrosis Studies 1 and 2 were randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover studies in 49 patients , ages 7 to 43 years , with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis .
Study 1 included patients aged 12 to 43 years ( n = 32 ) .
The final analysis population was limited to 29 patients ; 3 patients were excluded due to protocol deviations .
Study 2 included patients aged 7 to 11 years ( n = 17 ) .
The final analysis population was limited to 16 patients ; 1 patient withdrew consent prior to stool collection during treatment with CREON .
In each study , patients were randomized to receive CREON at a dose of 4 , 000 lipase units / g fat ingested per day or matching placebo for 5 to 6 days of treatment , followed by crossover to the alternate treatment for an additional 5 to 6 days .
All patients consumed a high - fat diet ( greater than or equal to 90 grams of fat per day , 40 % of daily calories derived from fat ) during the treatment periods .
The coefficient of fat absorption ( CFA ) was determined by a 72 - hour stool collection during both treatments , when both fat excretion and fat ingestion were measured .
Each patient ' s CFA during placebo treatment was used as their no - treatment CFA value .
In Study 1 , mean CFA was 89 % with CREON treatment compared to 49 % with placebo treatment .
The mean difference in CFA was 41 percentage points in favor of CREON treatment with 95 % CI : ( 34 , 47 ) and p < 0 . 001 .
In Study 2 , mean CFA was 83 % with CREON treatment compared to 47 % with placebo treatment .
The mean difference in CFA was 35 percentage points in favor of CREON treatment with 95 % CI : ( 27 , 44 ) and p < 0 . 001 .
Subgroup analyses of the CFA results in Studies 1 and 2 showed that mean change in CFA with CREON treatment was greater in patients with lower no - treatment ( placebo ) CFA values than in patients with higher no - treatment ( placebo ) CFA values .
There were no differences in response to CREON by age or gender , with similar responses to CREON observed in male and female patients , and in younger ( under 18 years of age ) and older patients .
The coefficient of nitrogen absorption ( CNA ) was determined by a 72 - hour stool collection during both treatments , when nitrogen excretion was measured and nitrogen ingestion from a controlled diet was estimated ( based on the assumption that proteins contain 16 % nitrogen ) .
Each patient ' s CNA during placebo treatment was used as their no - treatment CNA value .
In Study 1 , mean CNA was 86 % with CREON treatment compared to 49 % with placebo treatment .
The mean difference in CNA was 37 percentage points in favor of CREON treatment with 95 % CI : ( 31 , 42 ) and p < 0 . 001 .
In Study 2 , mean CNA was 80 % with CREON treatment compared to 45 % with placebo treatment .
The mean difference in CNA was 35 percentage points in favor of CREON treatment with 95 % CI : ( 26 , 45 ) and p < 0 . 001 .
14 . 2 Chronic Pancreatitis or Pancreatectomy A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study was conducted in 54 adult patients , ages 32 to 75 years , with EPI due to chronic pancreatitis or pancreatectomy .
The final analysis population was limited to 52 patients ; 2 patients were excluded due to protocol violations .
Ten patients had a history of pancreatectomy ( 7 were treated with CREON ) .
In this study , patients received placebo for 5 days ( run - in period ) , followed by pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy as directed by the investigator for 16 days ; this was followed by randomization to CREON or matching placebo for 7 days of treatment ( double - blind period ) .
Only patients with CFA less than 80 % in the run - in period were randomized to the double - blind period .
The dose of CREON during the double - blind period was 72 , 000 lipase units per main meal ( 3 main meals ) and 36 , 000 lipase units per snack ( 2 snacks ) .
All patients consumed a high - fat diet ( greater than or equal to 100 grams of fat per day ) during the treatment period .
The CFA was determined by a 72 - hour stool collection during the run - in and double - blind treatment periods , when both fat excretion and fat ingestion were measured .
The mean change in CFA from the run - in period to the end of the double - blind period in the CREON and Placebo groups is shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Change in CFA in the Chronic Pancreatitis and Pancreatectomy Trial ( Run - in Period to End of Double - Blind Period ) * p < 0 . 0001 CREON n = 24 Placebo n = 28 CFA [ % ] Run - in Period ( Mean , SD ) 54 ( 19 ) 57 ( 21 ) End of Double - Blind Period ( Mean , SD ) 86 ( 6 ) 66 ( 20 ) Change in CFA * [ % ] Run - in Period to End of Double - Blind Period ( Mean , SD ) 32 ( 18 ) 9 ( 13 ) Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) 21 ( 14 , 28 ) Subgroup analyses of the CFA results showed that mean change in CFA was greater in patients with lower run - in period CFA values than in patients with higher run - in period CFA values .
Only 1 of the patients with a history of total pancreatectomy was treated with CREON in the study .
That patient had a CFA of 26 % during the run - in period and a CFA of 73 % at the end of the double - blind period .
The remaining 6 patients with a history of partial pancreatectomy treated with CREON on the study had a mean CFA of 42 % during the run - in period and a mean CFA of 84 % at the end of the double - blind period .
15 REFERENCES 1 Borowitz DS , Grand RJ , Durie PR , et al .
Use of pancreatic enzyme supplements for patients with cystic fibrosis in the context of fibrosing colonopathy .
Journal of Pediatrics .
1995 ; 127 : 681 - 684 .
2 Borowitz DS , Baker RD , Stallings V . Consensus report on nutrition for pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis .
Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology Nutrition .
2002 Sep ; 35 : 246 - 259 .
3 Stallings VA , Stark LJ , Robinson KA , et al .
Evidence - based practice recommendations for nutrition - related management of children and adults with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency : results of a systematic review .
Journal of the American Dietetic Association .
2008 ; 108 : 832 - 839 .
4 Dominguez - Munoz JE .
Pancreatic enzyme therapy for pancreatic exocrine insufficiency .
Current Gastroenterology Reports .
2007 ; 9 : 116 - 122 .
5 Smyth RL , Ashby D , O ' Hea U , et al .
Fibrosing colonopathy in cystic fibrosis : results of a case - control study .
Lancet .
1995 ; 346 : 1247 - 1251 .
6 FitzSimmons SC , Burkhart GA , Borowitz DS , et al .
High - dose pancreatic - enzyme supplements and fibrosing colonopathy in children with cystic fibrosis .
New England Journal of Medicine .
1997 ; 336 : 1283 - 1289 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CREON ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules 12 , 000 USP units of lipase ; 38 , 000 USP units of protease ; 60 , 000 USP units of amylase Each CREON capsule is available as a two - piece gelatin capsule with a brown opaque cap with imprint “ CREON 1212 ” and a colorless transparent body that contains tan - colored , delayed - release pancrelipase supplied in bottles of : Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 6067 - 0 Bottles of 60 NDC 54868 - 6067 - 1 Storage and Handling CREON must be stored at room temperature up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) and protected from moisture .
Temperature excursions are permitted between 25 ° C to 40 ° C ( 77 ° F and 104 ° F ) for up to 30 days .
Product should be discarded if exposed to higher temperature and moisture conditions higher than 70 % .
After opening , keep bottle tightly closed between uses to protect from moisture .
Bottles of CREON 3 , 000 USP units of lipase must be stored and dispensed in the original container .
Do not crush CREON delayed - release capsules or the capsule contents .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) 17 . 1 Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients and caregivers that CREON should only be taken as directed by their healthcare professional .
Patients should be advised that the total daily dose should not exceed 10 , 000 lipase units / kg body weight / day unless clinically indicated .
This needs to be especially emphasized for patients eating multiple snacks and meals per day .
Patients should be informed that if a dose is missed , the next dose should be taken with the next meal or snack as directed .
Doses should not be doubled [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients and caregivers that CREON should always be taken with food .
Patients should be advised that CREON delayed - release capsules and the capsule contents must not be crushed or chewed as doing so could cause early release of enzymes and / or loss of enzymatic activity .
Patients should swallow the intact capsules with adequate amounts of liquid at mealtimes .
If necessary , the capsule contents can also be sprinkled on soft acidic foods [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
17 . 2 Fibrosing Colonopathy Advise patients and caregivers to follow dosing instructions carefully , as doses of pancreatic enzyme products exceeding 6 , 000 lipase units / kg of body weight per meal have been associated with colonic strictures in children below the age of 12 years [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Allergic Reactions Advise patients and caregivers to contact their healthcare professional immediately if allergic reactions to CREON develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 4 Pregnancy and Breast Feeding • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare professional if they are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant during treatment with CREON [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare professional if they are breast feeding or are thinking of breast feeding during treatment with CREON [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : • Abbott Products GmbH • Hannover , Germany Marketed By : • Abbott Laboratories • North Chicago , IL 60064 , U . S . A . 1055216 12 E Rev Jul 2011 © 2011 Abbott Laboratories Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 MEDICATION GUIDE CREON ® ( krē ′ ŏn ) ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules Read this Medication Guide before you start taking CREON and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about CREON ?
CREON may increase your chance of having a rare bowel disorder called fibrosing colonopathy .
This condition is serious and may require surgery .
The risk of having this condition may be reduced by following the dosing instructions that your doctor gave you .
Call your doctor right away if you have any unusual or severe : • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • bloating • trouble passing stool ( having bowel movements ) • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea Take CREON exactly as prescribed .
Do not take more or less CREON than directed by your doctor .
What is CREON ?
CREON is a prescription medicine used to treat people who cannot digest food normally because their pancreas does not make enough enzymes due to cystic fibrosis , swelling of the pancreas that lasts a long time ( chronic pancreatitis ) , removal of some or all of the pancreas ( pancreatectomy ) , or other conditions .
CREON may help your body use fats , proteins , and sugars from food .
CREON contains a mixture of digestive enzymes including lipases , proteases , and amylases from pig pancreas .
What should I tell my doctor before taking CREON ?
Before taking CREON , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you : • are allergic to pork ( pig ) products • have a history of intestinal blockage of your intestines , or scarring or thickening of your bowel wall ( fibrosing colonopathy ) • have gout , kidney disease , or high blood uric acid ( hyperuricemia ) • have trouble swallowing capsules • have any other medical condition • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if CREON will harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if CREON passes into your breast milk .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take CREON ?
• Take CREON exactly as your doctor tells you .
• You should not switch CREON with any other pancreatic enzyme product without first talking to your doctor .
• Do not take more capsules in a day than the number your doctor tells you to take ( total daily dose ) .
• Always take CREON with a meal or snack and enough liquid to swallow CREON completely .
If you eat a lot of meals or snacks in a day , be careful not to go over your total daily dose .
• Your doctor may change your dose based on the amount of fatty foods you eat or based on your weight .
• Do not crush or chew CREON capsules or its contents , and do not hold the capsule or capsule contents in your mouth .
Crushing , chewing or holding the CREON capsules in your mouth may cause irritation in your mouth or change the way CREON works in your body .
Giving CREON to infants ( children up to 12 months ) • Give CREON right before each feeding of formula or breast milk .
• Do not mix CREON capsule contents directly into formula or breast milk .
• Open the capsules and sprinkle the contents directly into your infant ' s mouth or mix the contents in a small amount of room temperature acidic soft food such as applesauce .
These foods should be the kind found in baby food jars that you buy at the store , or other food recommended by your doctor .
• If you sprinkle the CREON on food , give the CREON and food mixture to your child right away .
Do not store CREON that is mixed with food .
• Give your child enough liquid to completely swallow the CREON contents or the CREON and food mixture .
• Look in your child ' s mouth to make sure that all of the medicine has been swallowed .
Giving CREON to children and adults • Swallow CREON capsules whole and take them with enough liquid to swallow them right away .
• If you have trouble swallowing capsules , open the capsules and sprinkle the contents on a small amount of room temperature acidic food such as applesauce .
Ask your doctor about other foods you can mix with CREON .
• If you sprinkle CREON on food , swallow it right after you mix it and drink enough water or juice to make sure the medicine is swallowed completely .
Do not store CREON that is mixed with food .
• If you forget to take CREON , call your doctor or wait until your next meal and take your usual number of capsules .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
Do not make up for missed doses .
What are the possible side effects of CREON ?
CREON may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about CREON ? ”
• Irritation of the inside of your mouth .
This can happen if CREON is not swallowed completely .
• Increase in blood uric acid levels .
This may cause worsening of swollen , painful joints ( gout ) caused by an increase in your blood uric acid levels .
• Allergic reactions , including trouble with breathing , skin rashes , or swollen lips .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms .
The most common side effects of CREON include : • Blood sugar increase ( hyperglycemia ) or decrease ( hypoglycemia ) • Pain in your stomach ( abdominal area ) • Frequent or abnormal bowel movements • Gas • Vomiting • Dizziness • Sore throat and cough Other Possible Side Effects : CREON and other pancreatic enzyme products are made from the pancreas of pigs , the same pigs people eat as pork .
These pigs may carry viruses .
Although it has never been reported , it may be possible for a person to get a viral infection from taking pancreatic enzyme products that come from pigs .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects of CREON .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Abbott Laboratories at 1 - 800 - 241 - 1643 .
How should I store CREON ?
• Store CREON at room temperature below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid heat .
• You may store CREON at a temperature between 77 ° F to 104 ° F ( 25 ° C to 40 ° C ) for up to 30 days .
Throw away any CREON stored at these temperatures for more than 30 days .
• Keep CREON in a dry place and in the original container .
• After opening the bottle , keep it closed tightly between uses to protect from moisture .
Keep CREON and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about CREON Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use CREON for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CREON to other people to take , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about CREON .
If you would like more information , talk to your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about CREON that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , go to www . creon - us . com or call toll - free [ 1 - 800 - 241 - 1643 ] .
What are the ingredients in CREON ?
Active Ingredient : lipase , protease , amylase Inactive Ingredients : cetyl alcohol , dimethicone , hypromellose phthalate , polyethylene glycol , and triethyl citrate .
The shells of the CREON 6 , 000 USP units of lipase , 12 , 000 USP units of lipase , and 24 , 000 USP units of lipase strengths contain : gelatin , red iron oxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
In addition : The shells for the CREON 3 , 000 USP units of lipase contain titanium dioxide and hypromellose .
The shells of the 6 , 000 USP units of lipase strength capsules contain FD & C Blue No . 2 .
The shells of the 12 , 000 USP units of lipase strength capsules contain black iron oxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Abbott Laboratories North Chicago , IL 60064 , U . S . A . 1055216 12 E Rev Jul 2011 © 2011 Abbott Laboratories Rev July / 2011 CREON ® ( pancrelipase ) Delayed - Release Capsules DOSE BY LIPASE UNITS : Lipase 12 , 000 USP Units , Protease 38 , 000 USP Units , Amylase 60 , 000 USP Units Each capsule contains pancrelipase in enteric - coated spheres .
Dispense enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
