Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet face • dispense product into hands and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly with warm water one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly close • store in a cool , dry place Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , myristic acid , stearic acid , sodium lauroyl sarcosinate , palmitic acid , potassium hydroxide , lauric acid , polyquaternium - 10 , fragrance , phenoxyethanol , tetrasodium EDTA , pentasodium pentetate , tetrasodium etidronate , menthol , methylparaben , butylparaben , ethylparaben , isobutylparaben , propylparaben , Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , maltodextrin , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 192 mL Tube Label Clearasil ® DAILY CLEAR ® Hydra - Blast Oil - Free Face Wash Salicylic Acid Acne Medication Gently cleanses & helps keep skin clear of breakouts WON ' T OVERDRY 6 . 5 FL OZ ( 192 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
