Active Ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 02 % ( 0 . 01 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use Aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings for this product Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older : • use twice a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • vigorously swish 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients water , alcohol ( 8 % ) , hydrogen peroxide , poloxamer 407 , sodium saccharin , sucralose , menthol , phosphoric acid , disodium phosphate , flavor Other information • store at room temperature ( 59º - 77ºF ) other information Contains peroxide which releases oxygen while whitening .
This may cause the bottle to inflate slightly or release air when opened .
Disclaimer * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Healthy White Vibrant Anticavity Mouthrinse * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine HealthyWhite Vibrant Anticavity Mouthrinse Contains peroxide , which releases oxygen while whitening .
This may cause the bottle to inflate slightly or release air when opened .
Distributed by : Publix Super Markets , Inc . , 3300 Publix Corporate Parkway Lakeland , FL 33811 publix . com PUBLIX GUARANTEE : COMPLETE SATISFACTION OR YOUR MONEY BACK 435 . 000 / 435 AA Principal Display Panel Publix Glowing white Antivavity Mouthrinse • 5 days to whiter teeth • Begins working on contact • Helps strengthen teeth • Kills germs that cause bad breath Compare to the ingredients of Listerine Healthywhite vibrant anticavity mouthrinse Sealed with printed neckband for your protection IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use .
16 FL OZ ( 1 PT ) 473 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
