[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
When using this product ■ skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
■ avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen ■ avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth ■ avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product ■ skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Do not use if you ■ Have very sensitive skin ■ Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ Irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Wet face .
Gently massage all over face for about 20 – 30 seconds , avoiding the eye area .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
■ Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
■ If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
■ If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Carbomer , Glycerin , Lauryl Methacrylate / Glycol Dimethacrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium C14 - 16 Olefin Sulfonate , Sodium Hydroxide , Water Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 Distributed by : Galderma Laboratories , L . P . Fort Worth , TX 76177 USA All trademarks are the property of their respective owners Made in Canada www . differin . com Principle Display Panel - 4 FL OZ carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] DIFFERIN ® CLEANSE Daily DEEP CLEANSER Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % Acne Treatment For sensitive skin Oil - absorbing Moisturizer - releasing 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) P56842 - 0
