Label Display NDC : 51655 - 250 - 10 MFG : 33342 - 022 - 08 Levofloxacin 500 mg 10 tablets Rx only Dosage : See package insert Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Keep out of the reach of children .
Each tablet contains : levofloxacin USP .... 500 mg Mfg . By : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd Baddi , Himachai Pradesh , India Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 Lot # : Exp Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 51655 - 250 - 07 MFG : 33342 - 022 - 08 Levofloxacin 500 mg 7 tablets Rx only Lot # Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains : levofloxacin USP .... 500 mg Dosage : See package insert Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Keep out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Mfg . By : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd Baddi , Himachai Pradesh , India Mfg . for : Macleods Pharma USA Plainsboro , NJ 08536 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BOXED WARNING WARNING Fluoroquinolones , including levofloxacin , are associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages .
This risk is further increased in older patients usually over 60 years of age , in patients taking corticosteroid drugs , and in patients with kidney , heart or lung transplants [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Fluoroquinolones , including levofloxacin , may exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia gravis .
Avoid levofloxacin in patients with a known history of myasthenia gravis [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
INDICATIONS & USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs , levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults ( ≥ 18 years of age ) with mild , moderate , and severe infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed in this section .
Culture and susceptibility testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Therapy with levofloxacin may be initiated before results of these tests are known ; once results become available , appropriate therapy should be selected .
As with other drugs in this class , some isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with levofloxacin .
Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information about the continued susceptibility of the pathogens to the antimicrobial agent and also the possible emergence of bacterial resistance .
1 . 1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia due to methicillinsusceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Adjunctive therapy should be used as clinically indicated .
Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen , combination therapy with an antipseudomonal β - lactam is recommended [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Community - Acquired Pneumonia : 7 - 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of community - acquired pneumonia due to methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae ( including multidrug - resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [ MDRSP ] ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Moraxella catarrhalis , Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Legionella pneumophila , or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
MDRSP isolates are strains resistant to two or more of the following antibacterials : penicillin ( MIC ≥ 2 mcg / mL ) , 2 nd generation cephalosporins , e . g . , cefuroxime , macrolides , tetracyclines and trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole .
1 . 3 Community - Acquired Pneumonia : 5 - day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of community - acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae ( excluding multi - drug - resistant strains [ MDRSP ] ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
1 . 4 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis : 5 - day and 10 - 14 day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 5 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis due to methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis .
1 . 6 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Enterococcus faecalis , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Proteus mirabilis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
1 . 7 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( mild to moderate ) including abscesses , cellulitis , furuncles , impetigo , pyoderma , wound infections , due to methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes .
1 . 8 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli , Enterococcus faecalis , or methicillin - susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 6 ) ] .
1 . 9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections : 5 - day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , or Proteus mirabilis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 7 ) ] .
1 . 10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections : 10 - day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections ( mild to moderate ) due to Enterococcus faecalis , Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 8 ) ] .
1 . 11 Acute Pyelonephritis : 5 or 10 - day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli , including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 7 , 14 . 8 ) ] . ]
.
1 . 12 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections ( mild to moderate ) due to Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , or Staphylococcus saprophyticus .
1 . 13 Inhalational Anthrax ( Post - Exposure ) Levofloxacin is indicated for inhalational anthrax ( post - exposure ) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis .
The effectiveness of levofloxacin is based on plasma concentrations achieved in humans , a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit .
Levofloxacin has not been tested in humans for the post - exposure prevention of inhalation anthrax .
The safety of levofloxacin in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied .
Prolonged levofloxacin therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 9 ) ] .
1 . 14 Plague Levofloxacin is indicated for treatment of plague , including pneumonic and septicemic plague , due to Yersinia pestis ( Y . pestis ) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients , 6 months of age and older .
Efficacy studies of levofloxacin could not be conducted in humans with plague for ethical and feasibility reasons .
Therefore , approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 10 ) ] .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . levofloxacin was not teratogenic in rats at oral doses as high as 810 mg / kg / day which corresponds to 9 . 4 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area , or at intravenous doses as high as 160 mg / kg / day corresponding to 1 . 9 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area .
The oral dose of 810 mg / kg / day to rats caused decreased fetal body weight and increased fetal mortality .
No teratogenicity was observed when rabbits were dosed orally as high as 50 mg / kg / day which corresponds to 1 . 1 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area , or when dosed intravenously as high as 25 mg / kg / day , corresponding to 0 . 5 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Levofloxacin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Based on data on other fluoroquinolones and very limited data on levofloxacin , it can be presumed that levofloxacin will be excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from levofloxacin in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Quinolones , including levofloxacin , cause arthropathy and osteochondrosis in juvenile animals of several species .
[ see Warnings and Precautions [ 5 . 10 ] and Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology ( 13 . 2 ) ] Inhalational Anthrax ( Post - Exposure ) Levofloxacin is indicated in pediatric patients 6 months of age and older , for inhalational anthrax ( post - exposure ) .
The risk - benefit assessment indicates that administration of levofloxacin to pediatric patients is appropriate .
The safety of levofloxacin in pediatric patients treated for more than 14 days has not been studied [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 13 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) andClinical Studies ( 14 . 9 ) ] .
Plague Levofloxacin is indicated in pediatric patients , 6 months of age and older , for treatment of plague , including pneumonic and septicemic plague due to Yersinia pestis ( Y . pestis ) and prophylaxis for plague .
Efficacy studies of levofloxacin could not be conducted in humans with pneumonic plague for ethical and feasibility reasons .
Therefore , approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals .
The risk - benefit assessment indicates that administration of levofloxacin to pediatric patients is appropriate [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 14 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 10 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of six months have not been established .
Adverse Events In clinical trials , 1534 children ( 6 months to 16 years of age ) were treated with oral and intravenous levofloxacin .
Children 6 months to 5 years of age received levofloxacin 10 mg / kg twice a day and children greater than 5 years of age received 10 mg / kg once a day ( maximum 500 mg per day ) for approximately 10 days .
A subset of children in the clinical trials ( 1340 levofloxacin - treated and 893 non - fluoroquinolone - treated ) enrolled in a prospective , long - term surveillance study to assess the incidence of protocol - defined musculoskeletal disorders ( arthralgia , arthritis , tendinopathy , gait abnormality ) during 60 days and 1 year following the first dose of study drug .
Children treated with levofloxacin had a significantly higher incidence of musculoskeletal disorders when compared to the non - fluoroquinolone - treated children .
Arthralgia was the most frequently occurring musculoskeletal disorder in both treatment groups .
Most of the musculoskeletal disorders in both groups involved multiple weight - bearing joints .
Disorders were moderate in 8 / 46 ( 17 % ) children and mild in 35 / 46 ( 76 % ) levofloxacin treated children and most were treated with analgesics .
The median time to resolution was 7 days for levofloxacin - treated children and 9 for non - fluoroquinolone - treated children ( approximately 80 % resolved within 2 months in both groups ) .
No child had a severe or serious disorder and all musculoskeletal disorders resolved without sequelae .
Vomiting and diarrhea were the most frequently reported adverse events , occurring in similar frequency in the levofloxacin - treated and non - fluoroquinolone - treated children .
In addition to the events reported in pediatric patients in clinical trials , events reported in adults during clinical trials or post - marketing experience [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] may also be expected to occur in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk for developing severe tendon disorders including tendon rupture when being treated with a fluoroquinolone such as levofloxacin .
This risk is further increased in patients receiving concomitant corticosteroid therapy .
Tendinitis or tendon rupture can involve the Achilles , hand , shoulder , or other tendon sites and can occur during or after completion of therapy ; cases occurring up to several months after fluoroquinolone treatment have been reported .
Caution should be used when prescribing levofloxacin to elderly patients especially those on corticosteroids .
Patients should be informed of this potential side effect and advised to discontinue levofloxacin and contact their healthcare provider if any symptoms of tendinitis or tendon rupture occur [ see Boxed Warning ; Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ; and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
In phase 3 clinical trials , 1 , 945 levofloxacin - treated patients ( 26 % ) were ≥ 65 years of age .
Of these , 1 , 081 patients ( 14 % ) were between the ages of 65 and 74 and 864 patients ( 12 % ) were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Severe , and sometimes fatal , cases of hepatotoxicity have been reported post - marketing in association with levofloxacin .
The majority of fatal hepatotoxicity reports occurred in patients 65 years of age or older and most were not associated with hypersensitivity .
Levofloxacin should be discontinued immediately if the patient develops signs and symptoms of hepatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Elderly patients may be more susceptible to drug - associated effects on the QT interval .
Therefore , precaution should be taken when using levofloxacin with concomitant drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval ( e . g . , Class IA or Class III antiarrhythmics ) or in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes ( e . g . , known QT prolongation , uncorrected hypokalemia ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetic properties of levofloxacin in younger adults and elderly adults do not differ significantly when creatinine clearance is taken into consideration .
However , since the drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Clearance of levofloxacin is substantially reduced and plasma elimination half - life is substantially prolonged in patients with impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) , requiring dosage adjustment in such patients to avoid accumulation .
Neither hemodialysis nor continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD ) is effective in removal of levofloxacin from the body , indicating that supplemental doses of levofloxacin are not required following hemodialysis or CAPD [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetic studies in hepatically impaired patients have not been conducted .
Due to the limited extent of levofloxacin metabolism , the pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin are not expected to be affected by hepatic impairment .
Warnings and Precautions Risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture is increased .
This risk is further increased in older patients usually over 60 years of age , in patients taking corticosteroids , and in patients with kidney , heart or lung transplants .
Discontinue if pain or inflammation in a tendon occurs .
May exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia gravis .
Avoid use in patients with a known history of myasthenia gravis .
Anaphylactic reactions and allergic skin reactions , serious , occasionally fatal , may occur after first dose .
Hematologic ( including agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia ) , and renal toxicities may occur after multiple doses .
Hepatotoxicity : Severe , and sometimes fatal , hepatoxicity has been reported .
Discontinue immediately if signs and symptoms of hepatitis occur .
Central nervous system effects , including convulsions , anxiety , confusion , depression , and insomnia may occur after the first dose .
Use with caution in patients with known or suspected disorders that may predispose them to seizures or lower the seizure threshold Increased .
Intracranial pressure ( pseudotumor cerebri ) has been reported .
Clostridium difficile - associated colitis : evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
Peripheral neuropathy : discontinue immediately if symptoms occur in order to prevent irreversibility .
Prolongation of the QT interval and isolated cases of torsade de pointes have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known prolongation , those with hypokalemia , and with other drugs that prolong the QT interval Contraindications Known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin tablets or other quinolones Adverse Reactions The most common reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) were nausea , headache , diarrhea , insomnia , constipation and dizziness .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Chelation Agents : Antacids , Sucralfate , Metal Cations , Multivitamins Levofloxacin Tablets While the chelation by divalent cations is less marked than with other fluoroquinolones , concurrent administration of levofloxacin tablets with antacids containing magnesium , or aluminum , as well as sucralfate , metal cations such as iron , and multivitamin preparations with zinc may interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin , resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired .
Tablets with antacids containing magnesium , aluminum , as well as sucralfate , metal cations such as iron , and multivitamins preparations with zinc or didanosine may substantially interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin , resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired .
These agents should be taken at least two hours before or two hours after oral levofloxacin administration .
7 . 2 Warfarin No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations , AUC , and other disposition parameters for R - and S - warfarin was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers .
Similarly , no apparent effect of warfarin on levofloxacin absorption and disposition was observed .
However , there have been reports during the postmarketing experience in patients that levofloxacin enhances the effects of warfarin .
Elevations of the prothrombin time in the setting of concurrent warfarin and levofloxacin use have been associated with episodes of bleeding .
Prothrombin time , International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) , or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be closely monitored if levofloxacin is administered concomitantly with warfarin .
Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ; Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Antidiabetic Agents Disturbances of blood glucose , including hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia , have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with fluoroquinolones and an antidiabetic agent .
Therefore , careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co - administered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ; Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug with a fluoroquinolone , including levofloxacin , may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 5 Theophylline No significant effect of levofloxacin on the plasma concentrations , AUC , and other disposition parameters for theophylline was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers .
Similarly , no apparent effect of theophylline on levofloxacin absorption and disposition was observed .
However , concomitant administration of other fluoroquinolones with theophylline has resulted in prolonged elimination half - life , elevated serum theophylline levels , and a subsequent increase in the risk of theophylline - related adverse reactions in the patient population .
Therefore , theophylline levels should be closely monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made when levofloxacin is co - administered .
Adverse reactions , including seizures , may occur with or without an elevation in serum theophylline levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 6 Cyclosporine No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations , AUC , and other disposition parameters for cyclosporine was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers .
However , elevated serum levels of cyclosporine have been reported in the patient population when co - administered with some other fluoroquinolones .
Levofloxacin Cmax and ke were slightly lower while Tmax and t ½ were slightly longer in the presence of cyclosporine than those observed in other studies without concomitant medication .
The differences , however , are not considered to be clinically significant .
Therefore , no dosage adjustment is required for levofloxacin or cyclosporine when administered concomitantly .
7 . 7 Digoxin No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations , AUC , and other disposition parameters for digoxin was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers .
Levofloxacin absorption and disposition kinetics were similar in the presence or absence of digoxin .
Therefore , no dosage adjustment for levofloxacin or digoxin is required when administered concomitantly .
7 . 8 Probenecid and Cimetidine No significant effect of probenecid or cimetidine on the Cmax of levofloxacin was observed in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers .
The AUC and t ½ of levofloxacin were higher while CL / F and CLR were lower during concomitant treatment of levofloxacin with probenecid or cimetidine compared to levofloxacin alone .
However , these changes do not warrant dosage adjustment for levofloxacin when probenecid or cimetidine is co - administered .
7 . 9 Interactions with Laboratory or Diagnostic Testing Some fluoroquinolones , including levofloxacin , may produce false - positive urine screening results for opiates using commercially available immunoassay kits .
Confirmation of positive opiate screens by more specific methods may be necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of an acute overdosage , the stomach should be emptied .
The patient should be observed and appropriate hydration maintained .
Levofloxacin is not efficiently removed by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
Levofloxacin exhibits a low potential for acute toxicity .
Mice , rats , dogs and monkeys exhibited the following clinical signs after receiving a single high dose oflevofloxacin : ataxia , ptosis , decreased locomotor activity , dyspnea , prostration , tremors , and convulsions .
Doses in excess of 1500 mg / kg orally and 250 mg / kg IV produced significant mortality in rodents .
DESCRIPTION Levofloxacin is a synthetic broad - spectrum antibacterial agent for oral and intravenous administration .
Chemically , levofloxacin , a chiral fluorinated carboxyquinolone , is the pure ( - ) - ( S ) - enantiomer of the racemic drug substance ofloxacin .
The chemical name is ( -- ( S ) - 9 - fluoro - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - methyl - 10 - ( 4 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ) - 7 - oxo - 7 H - pyrido [ 1 , 2 , 3 - de ] - 1 , 4 - benzoxazine - 6 - carboxylic acid hemihydrate .
The empirical formula is C18H20FN3O4 •½ H2O and the molecular weight is 370 . 38 .
Levofloxacin is a light yellowish - white to yellow - white crystal or crystalline powder .
The molecule exists as a zwitterion at the pH conditions in the small intestine .
The data demonstrate that from pH 0 . 6 to 5 . 8 , the solubility of levofloxacin is essentially constant ( approximately 100 mg / mL ) .
Levofloxacin is considered soluble to freely soluble in this pH range , as defined by USP nomenclature .
Above pH 5 . 8 , the solubility increases rapidly to its maximum at pH 6 . 7 ( 272 mg / mL ) and is considered freely soluble in this range .
Above pH 6 . 7 , the solubility decreases and reaches a minimum value ( about 50 mg / mL ) at a pH of approximately 6 . 9 .
Levofloxacin has the potential to form stable coordination compounds with many metal ions .
This in vitro chelation potential has the following formation order : Al + 3 > Cu + 2 > Zn + 2 > Mg + 2 > Ca + 2 .
Excipients and Description of Dosage Forms Levofloxacin Tablets Levofloxacin Tablets are available as film - coated tablets and contain the following inactive ingredients : 250 mg ( as expressed in the anhydrous form ) : hypromellose , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide , polysorbate 80 and synthetic red iron oxide .
500 mg ( as expressed in the anhydrous form ) : hypromellose , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide , polysorbate 80 and synthetic red and yellow iron oxides .
750 mg ( as expressed in the anhydrous form ) : hypromellose , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide , polysorbate 80 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility In a lifetime bioassay in rats , levofloxacin exhibited no carcinogenic potential following daily dietary administration for 2 years ; the highest dose ( 100 mg / kg / day ) was 1 . 4 times the highest recommended human dose ( 750 mg ) based upon relative body surface area .
Levofloxacin did not shorten the time to tumor development of UV - induced skin tumors in hairless albino ( Skh - 1 ) mice at any levofloxacin dose level and was therefore not photo - carcinogenic under conditions of this study .
Dermal levofloxacin concentrations in the hairless mice ranged from 25 to 42 mcg / g at the highest levofloxacin dose level ( 300 mg / kg / day ) used in the photo - carcinogenicity study .
By comparison , dermal levofloxacin concentrations in human subjects receiving 750 mg of levofloxacin averaged approximately 11 . 8 mcg / g at Cmax .
Levofloxacin was not mutagenic in the following assays : Ames bacterial mutation assay ( S . typhimurium and E . coli ) , CHO / HGPRT forward mutation assay , mouse micronucleus test , mouse dominant lethal test , rat unscheduled DNA synthesis assay , and the mouse sister chromatid exchange assay .
It was positive in the in vitro chromosomal aberration ( CHL cell line ) and sister chromatid exchange ( CHL / IU cell line ) assays .
Levofloxacin caused no impairment of fertility or reproductive performance in rats at oral doses as high as 360 mg / kg / day , corresponding to 4 . 2 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area and intravenous doses as high as 100 mg / kg / day , corresponding to 1 . 2 times the highest recommended human dose based upon relative body surface area .
13 . 2 Animal Pharmacology & or Toxicology Levofloxacin and other quinolones have been shown to cause arthropathy in immature animals of most species tested [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
In immature dogs ( 4 – 5 months old ) , oral doses of 10 mg / kg / day for 7 days and intravenous doses of 4 mg / kg / day for 14 days of levofloxacin resulted in arthropathic lesions .
Administration at oral doses of 300 mg / kg / day for 7 days and intravenous doses of 60 mg / kg / day for 4 weeks produced arthropathy in juvenile rats .
Three - month old beagle dogs dosed orally with levofloxacin at 40 mg / kg / day exhibited clinically severe arthrotoxicity resulting in the termination of dosing at Day 8 of a 14 - day dosing routine .
Slight musculoskeletal clinical effects , in the absence of gross pathological or histopathological effects , resulted from the lowest dose level of 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 2 - fold the pediatric dose based upon AUC comparisons ) .
Synovitis and articular cartilage lesions were observed at the 10 and 40 mg / kg dose levels ( approximately 0 . 7 - fold and 2 . 4 - fold the pediatric dose , respectively , based on AUC comparisons ) .
Articular cartilage gross pathology and histopathology persisted to the end of the 18 - week recovery period for those dogs from the 10 and 40 mg / kg / day dose levels .
When tested in a mouse ear swelling bioassay , levofloxacin exhibited phototoxicity similar in magnitude to ofloxacin , but less phototoxicity than other quinolones .
While crystalluria has been observed in some intravenous rat studies , urinary crystals are not formed in the bladder , being present only after micturition and are not associated with nephrotoxicity .
In mice , the CNS stimulatory effect of quinolones is enhanced by concomitant administration of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
In dogs , levofloxacin administered at 6 mg / kg or higher by rapid intravenous injection produced hypotensive effects .
These effects were considered to be related to histamine release .
In vitro and in vivo studies in animals indicate that levofloxacin is neither an enzyme inducer nor inhibitor in the human therapeutic plasma concentration range ; therefore , no drug metabolizing enzyme - related interactions with other drugs or agents are anticipated .
