WARNING : QT PROLONGATION , TORSADES DE POINTES , AND SUDDEN DEATH CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval .
Torsades de pointes and sudden death have occurred in patients receiving CAPRELSA .
Do not use CAPRELSA in patients with hypocalcemia , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , or long QT syndrome .
Correct hypocalcemia , hypokalemia and / or hypomagnesemia prior to CAPRELSA administration .
Monitor electrolytes periodically .
Avoid drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted distribution program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 16 ) ] .
WARNING : QT PROLONGATION , TORSADES DE POINTES , AND SUDDEN DEATH See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval .
Torsades de pointes and sudden death have occurred in patients receiving CAPRELSA .
Do not use CAPRELSA in patients with hypocalcemia , hypokalemia , hypomagnesemia , or long QT syndrome .
Correct hypocalcemia , hypokalemia and / or hypomagnesemia prior to CAPRELSA administration .
Monitor electrolytes periodically .
Avoid drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted distribution program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 16 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAPRELSA is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease .
Use CAPRELSA in patients with indolent , asymptomatic or slowly progressing disease only after careful consideration of the treatment related risks of CAPRELSA .
CAPRELSA is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease .
( 1 ) Use CAPRELSA in patients with indolent , asymptomatic or slowly progressing disease only after careful consideration of the treatment related risks of CAPRELSA .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of CAPRELSA is 300 mg taken orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs .
CAPRELSA may be taken with or without food .
Do not take a missed dose within 12 hours of the next dose .
Do not crush CAPRELSA tablets .
The tablets can be dispersed in 2 ounces of water by stirring for approximately 10 minutes ( will not completely dissolve ) .
Do not use other liquids for dispersion .
Swallow immediately after dispersion .
Mix any remaining residue with 4 additional ounces of water and swallow .
The dispersion can also be administered through nasogastric or gastrostomy tubes .
• 300 mg once daily .
( 2 ) • CAPRELSA may be taken with or without food .
( 2 ) • Dosage reduction may be necessary in the event of severe toxicities or QTc interval prolongation .
( 2 . 1 ) • The starting dose is 200 mg in patients with moderate renal impairment .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Adjustment For Adverse Reactions The 300 mg daily dose can be reduced to 200 mg ( two 100 mg tablets ) and then to 100 mg for Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) Grade 3 or greater toxicities .
Interrupt CAPRELSA for the following : • Corrected QT interval , Fridericia ( QTcF ) greater than 500 ms : Resume at a reduced dose when the QTcF returns to less than 450 ms . • CTCAE Grade 3 or greater toxicity : Resume at a reduced dose when the toxicity resolves or improves to CTCAE Grade 1 .
For recurrent toxicities , reduce the dose of CAPRELSA to 100 mg after resolution or improvement to CTCAE Grade 1 severity , if continued treatment is warranted .
Adverse events including QT interval prolongation should be monitored closely as they may not resolve fully until approximately three plasma half - lives of the drug .
Monitor appropriately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) , ( 5 . 5 ) , ( 5 . 6 ) , ( 5 . 7 ) , and ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
For Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance ≥ 30 to < 50 mL / min ) renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
For Patients with Hepatic Impairment CAPRELSA is not recommended for use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS CAPRELSA 100 mg tablets are white , round , biconvex , film - coated , and intagliated with ' Z 100 ' on one side and plain on the reverse side .
CAPRELSA 300 mg tablets are white , oval , biconvex , film - coated , and intagliated with ' Z 300 ' on one side and plain on the reverse side .
100 mg and 300 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with congenital long QT syndrome [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Do not use in patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Prolonged QT interval , torsades de pointes , and sudden death : Monitor electrocardiograms and levels of serum potassium , calcium , magnesium and TSH .
Reduce CAPRELSA dose as appropriate .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) • Severe skin reactions , including toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome , some fatal .
Discontinue CAPRELSA for severe skin reactions .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Interstitial lung disease ( ILD ) , including fatalities : investigate unexplained non - specific respiratory signs and symptoms .
Discontinue CAPRELSA for confirmed ILD .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) • Ischemic cerebrovascular events , hemorrhage , heart failure , diarrhea , hypertension , and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome : Discontinue or interrupt CAPRELSA .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 9 , 5 . 10 ) • Impaired wound healing : Withhold for at least 1 month prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer CAPRELSA for at least 2 weeks following major surgery and until adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of treatment with CAPRELSA after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
( 5 . 14 ) • Embryo - fetal toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise women of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception during treatment with CAPRELSA and for 4 months following the last dose .
( 5 . 15 , 8 . 1 ) • REMS : CAPRELSA is available only through a restricted distribution program called the CAPRELSA REMS Program .
( 5 . 16 ) 5 . 1 QT Prolongation and Torsades de Pointes CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval in a concentration - dependent manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Torsades de pointes , ventricular tachycardia and sudden deaths have occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Do not start CAPRELSA treatment in patients whose QTcF interval is greater than 450 ms . Do not administer CAPRELSA to patients who have a history of Torsades de pointes , congenital long QT syndrome , bradyarrhythmias or uncompensated heart failure .
CAPRELSA has not been studied in patients with ventricular arrhythmias or recent myocardial infarction .
Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function .
Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment and monitor QT interval frequently .
Obtain an ECG and serum potassium , calcium , magnesium and TSH at baseline , 2 to 4 weeks and 8 to 12 weeks after starting treatment with CAPRELSA , and every 3 months thereafter .
Monitor electrolytes and ECGs more frequently in patients who experience diarrhea .
Following any dose reduction for QT prolongation or any dose interruption greater than 2 weeks , conduct QT assessments as described above .
Maintain serum potassium levels of 4 mEq / L or higher ( within normal range ) and maintain serum magnesium and calcium levels within normal ranges to reduce the risk of QT prolongation .
Avoid using CAPRELSA with drugs known to prolong the QT interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
If such drugs are given to patients already receiving CAPRELSA and no alternative therapy exists , perform ECG monitoring of the QT interval more frequently .
Stop CAPRELSA in patients who develop a QTcF greater than 500 ms until the QTcF returns to less than 450 ms . Dosing of CAPRELSA can then be resumed at a reduced dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Severe Skin Reactions Severe and sometimes fatal skin reactions , including toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) and Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Permanently discontinue CAPRELSA for severe skin reactions and refer the patient for urgent medical evaluation .
Systemic therapies such as corticosteroids may be required .
Photosensitivity reactions can occur during CAPRELSA treatment and up to 4 months after treatment discontinuation .
5 . 3 Interstitial Lung Disease Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) or pneumonitis , including fatalities , has occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Consider a diagnosis of ILD in patients presenting with non - specific respiratory signs and symptoms .
Interrupt CAPRELSA for acute or worsening pulmonary symptoms .
Discontinue CAPRELSA if ILD is confirmed .
5 . 4 Ischemic Cerebrovascular Events Ischemic cerebrovascular events , including fatalities , occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
In the randomized medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) study , ischemic cerebrovascular events occurred more frequently with CAPRELSA compared to placebo ( 1 . 3 % compared to 0 % ) .
The safety of resumption of CAPRELSA therapy after resolution of an ischemic cerebrovascular event has not been studied .
Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients who experience a severe ischemic cerebrovascular event .
5 . 5 Hemorrhage Serious hemorrhagic events , including fatalities , occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Do not administer CAPRELSA to patients with a recent history of hemoptysis of ≥ 1 / 2 teaspoon of red blood .
Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients with severe hemorrhage .
5 . 6 Heart Failure Heart failure , including fatalities , occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
Consider discontinuation of CAPRELSA in patients with heart failure .
Heart failure may not be reversible upon stopping CAPRELSA .
5 . 7 Diarrhea Diarrhea of Grade 3 or greater severity occurred in 11 % of patients receiving CAPRELSA in the randomized MTC study .
If diarrhea occurs , carefully monitor serum electrolytes and ECGs to reduce the risk and enable early detection of QT prolongation resulting from dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Interrupt CAPRELSA for severe diarrhea .
Upon improvement , resume CAPRELSA at a reduced dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Hypothyroidism In the randomized MTC study in which 90 % of the patients enrolled had prior thyroidectomy , increased dosing of thyroid replacement therapy was required in 49 % of CAPRELSA - treated patients compared to 17 % of placebo - treated patients .
Obtain Thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) at baseline , at 2 to 4 weeks and 8 to 12 weeks after starting treatment with CAPRELSA , and every 3 months thereafter .
If signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism occur , examine thyroid hormone levels and adjust thyroid replacement therapy accordingly .
5 . 9 Hypertension Hypertension , including hypertensive crisis , has occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Monitor all patients for hypertension .
Dose reduction or interruption for hypertension may be necessary .
If hypertension cannot be controlled , do not resume CAPRELSA [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) , a syndrome of subcortical vasogenic edema diagnosed by an MRI of the brain , has occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Consider this syndrome in any patient presenting with seizures , headache , visual disturbances , confusion or altered mental function .
In clinical studies , three of four patients who developed RPLS while taking CAPRELSA also had hypertension .
Discontinue CAPRELSA treatment in patients with RPLS .
5 . 11 Drug Interactions Avoid administration of CAPRELSA with anti - arrhythmic drugs ( including but not limited to amiodarone , disopyramide , procainamide , sotalol , dofetilide ) and other drugs that may prolong the QT interval ( including but not limited to chloroquine , clarithromycin , dolasetron , granisetron , haloperidol , methadone , moxifloxacin , and pimozide ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 12 Renal Failure Renal failure occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Withhold , reduce the dose or permanently discontinue based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function .
Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate renal impairment and monitor the QT interval closely [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( clearance below 30 mL / min ) .
There is no information available for patients with end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 13 Hepatic Impairment CAPRELSA is not recommended for use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment , as safety and efficacy have not been established [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 14 Impaired Wound Healing Impaired wound healing can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the VEGF signaling pathway .
Impaired wound healing has occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA .
Withhold CAPRELSA for at least 1 month prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer CAPRELSA for at least 2 weeks following major surgery and until adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of treatment with CAPRELSA after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
5 . 15 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , CAPRELSA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In rats , vandetanib was embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and induced fetal malformations at exposures equivalent to or lower than those expected at the 300 mg clinical dose and had adverse effects on female fertility , embryofetal development , and postnatal development of pups .
Advise women of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Advise women of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with CAPRELSA and for at least 4 months following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 16 CAPRELSA REMS ( Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ) Program Because of the risk of QT prolongation , Torsades de pointes , and sudden death , CAPRELSA is available only through a restricted distribution program called the CAPRELSA REMS Program .
Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA .
To learn about the specific REMS requirements and to enroll in the CAPRELSA REMS Program , call 1 - 800 - 817 - 2722 or visit www . caprelsarems . com .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the label : • QT Prolongation and Torsades de Pointes [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Severe Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Interstitial Lung Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Ischemic Cerebrovascular Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Heart Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hypothyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Renal Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] The most common adverse drug reactions ( > 20 % ) seen with CAPRELSA and with a between - arm difference of ≥ 5 % have been diarrhea / colitis , rash , acneiform dermatitis , hypertension , nausea , headache , upper respiratory tract infections , decreased appetite and abdominal pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , Contact Sanofi Genzyme at 1 - 800 - 817 - 2722 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer were treated with CAPRELSA 300 mg ( n = 231 ) or Placebo ( n = 99 ) .
The population exposed to CAPRELSA was 58 % male , 94 % white , and had a median age of 50 years .
The data described below reflect a median exposure to CAPRELSA for 607 days .
The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions which occurred in > 20 % of CAPRELSA - treated patients and with a between - arm difference of ≥ 5 % included , in order of decreasing frequency : diarrhea / colitis , rash , acneiform dermatitis , hypertension , nausea , headache , upper respiratory tract infection , decreased appetite , and abdominal pain .
Among CAPRELSA - treated patients , dose interruption occurred in 109 ( 47 % ) and dose reduction occurred in 83 ( 36 % ) .
Adverse reactions led to study treatment discontinuation in 28 of 231 patients ( 12 % ) receiving CAPRELSA and in 3 of 99 patients ( 3 . 0 % ) receiving placebo .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation in 2 or more ( ≥ 0 . 9 % ) patients treated with CAPRELSA were : asthenia ( 1 . 7 % ) , rash ( 1 . 7 % ) , diarrhea ( 0 . 9 % ) , fatigue ( 0 . 9 % ) , pyrexia ( 0 . 9 % ) , elevated creatinine ( 0 . 9 % ) , QT prolongation ( 0 . 9 % ) , and hypertension ( 0 . 9 % ) .
Table 1 : Per - Patient Incidence of Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring at a Higher Incidence in CAPRELSA - Treated Patients During Randomized Treatment ( Between - Arm Difference of ≥ 5 % [ All Grades ] [ 1 ] ) System Organ Class CAPRELSA 300 mg Placebo Preferred Term N = 231 N = 99 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea / Colitis 57 11 27 2 Nausea 33 1 16 0 Abdominal Pain [ 2 ] 21 3 11 0 Vomiting 15 1 7 0 Dyspepsia 11 0 4 0 Dry Mouth 9 0 3 0 Skin and Cutaneous Disorders Rash [ 3 ] 53 5 12 0 Dermatitis Acneiform / Acne 35 1 7 0 Dry Skin 15 0 5 0 Photosensitivity Reaction 13 2 0 0 Pruritus 11 1 4 0 Nail abnormalities [ 4 ] 9 0 0 0 Alopecia 8 N / A 0 N / A Vascular Disorders Hypertension / Hypertensive Crisis / Accelerated Hypertension 33 9 5 1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 26 1 9 0 Dysgeusia 8 0 3 0 General Disorders Fatigue [ 5 ] 24 6 23 1 Infections Upper Respiratory Tract Infections [ 6 ] 23 0 16 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Decreased Appetite 21 4 12 0 Hypocalcemia 11 2 3 0 Investigations ECG QT Prolonged [ 7 ] 14 8 1 1 Eye Disorders Corneal Abnormalities [ 8 ] 13 0 1 0 Blurred Vision 9 0 1 0 Renal Disorders Proteinuria 10 0 2 0 Psychiatric Disorders Depression 10 2 3 0 Endocrine Disorders Hypothyroidism 6 0 0 0 Musculoskeletal Disorders Muscle Spasms 6 0 1 0 [ 1 ] CTCAE version 3 was used to grade adverse events .
[ 2 ] Includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , lower abdominal pain , and abdominal discomfort .
[ 3 ] Includes rash , rash ( erythematous , generalized , macular , maculopapular , papular , pruritic , and exfoliative ) , dermatitis , dermatitis bullous , generalized erythema , and eczema .
[ 4 ] Includes nail disorder , nail bed inflammation , nail bed tenderness , paronychia , nail bed infection , and nail infection .
[ 5 ] Included in Table 1 due to the increased incidence of severe fatigue in the CAPRELSA group compared to the placebo group .
[ 6 ] Includes laryngitis , nasopharyngitis , pharyngitis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection , acute sinusitis , rhinitis , and tracheitis .
[ 7 ] 69 % had QT prolongation > 450 ms and 7 % had QT prolongation > 500 ms by ECG using Fridericia correction .
[ 8 ] Includes corneal edema , corneal opacity , corneal dystrophy , corneal pigmentation , keratopathy , arcus lipoides , corneal deposits , and acquired corneal dystrophy .
Other Clinically Relevant Adverse Effects In patients with medullary thyroid cancer treated with CAPRELSA or placebo ( NCT00410761 ) , clinically important uncommon adverse drug reactions included pancreatitis ( 0 . 4 % vs 0 % ) , intestinal perforation ( 0 . 4 % vs 0 % ) , and heart failure ( 0 . 9 % vs 0 % ) .
Blurred vision was commonly reported ( 9 % vs 1 % ) in this trial .
Scheduled slit lamp examinations revealed corneal opacities ( vortex keratopathies ) in treated patients , which can lead to halos and decreased visual acuity .
Perform ophthalmologic examination , including slit lamp examination , in patients who report visual changes .
Grade 1 to 2 bleeding events were also more common in patients receiving CAPRELSA compared to placebo ( 14 % vs 7 % ) .
Table 2 : Per - Patient Incidence of Selected Laboratory Abnormalities in Patients with MTC Occurring at a Higher Incidence in CAPRELSA - Treated Patients ( Between - Arm Difference of ≥ 5 % [ All Grades ] [ 1 ] ) Laboratory Abnormalities CAPRELSA 300 mg N = 231 Placebo N = 99 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Chemistries Hypocalcemia 57 6 25 3 ALT Increased 51 2 19 0 Hypoglycemia 24 0 7 1 Creatinine Increased 16 0 1 0 Hypomagnesemia 7 < 1 2 0 Hematologic Neutropenia 10 < 1 5 2 Thrombocytopenia 9 0 3 0 [ 1 ] CTCAE version 3 was used to grade laboratory abnormalities .
No patient with a Grade 3 to 4 ALT elevation had a concomitant increase in bilirubin in the MTC study .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of CAPRELSA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Vascular disorders : Arterial ( including aortic ) aneurysms , dissections , and rupture General disorders : Impaired wound healing 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid the use of strong CYP3A4 inducers because they may decrease CAPRELSA exposure .
( 7 . 1 ) • Avoid the use of agents that prolong the QT interval .
( 5 . 11 ) 7 . 1 Effect of CYP3A4 Inducers on CAPRELSA Rifampicin , a strong CYP3A4 inducer , decreased vandetanib plasma concentrations .
Avoid concomitant use of known strong CYP3A4 inducers during CAPRELSA therapy .
Avoid concomitant use of St . John ' s wort because it can decrease vandetanib exposure unpredictably [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effect of CAPRELSA on OCT2 Transporter CAPRELSA increased plasma concentrations of metformin that is transported by the organic cation transporter type 2 ( OCT2 ) .
Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering CAPRELSA with drugs that are transported by OCT2 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Effect of CAPRELSA on Digoxin CAPRELSA increased plasma concentrations of digoxin .
Use caution and closely monitor for toxicities when administering CAPRELSA with digoxin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval Avoid concomitant use of CAPRELSA with agents that may prolong the QT interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , CAPRELSA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Vandetanib is embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and induced fetal malformations in rats at exposures less than or equal to those expected at the recommended human dose of 300 mg / day .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Animal data In reproductive toxicity studies , administration of vandetanib to female rats prior to mating and through the first week of pregnancy at a dose of 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately equal to the human exposure at the 300 mg clinical dose based on Cmax ) , there were increases in pre - implantation loss and post - implantation loss resulting in a reduction in the number of live embryos .
During organogenesis , vandetanib caused an increase in post - implantation loss , including occasional total litter loss at a dose of 25 mg / kg / day .
At doses greater than 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 4 times the human Cmax at the 300 mg clinical dose ) treatment with vandetanib resulted in increases in late embryofetal death and decreases in fetal birth weight .
A no - effect level for malformations was not identified in this study .
Administration of vandetanib at doses greater than or equal to 1 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 03 times the human Cmax at the 300 mg clinical dose ) resulted in dose dependent increases in both malformations of the heart vessels and skeletal variations including delayed ossification of the skull , vertebrae , and sternum , indicating delayed fetal development .
In a rat prenatal and postnatal development study , at doses ( 1 and 10 mg / kg / day ) producing mild maternal toxicity during gestation and / or lactation , vandetanib decreased pup survival and reduced postnatal pup growth .
Reduced postnatal pup growth was associated with a delay in physical development .
8 . 2 Lactation There are no data on the presence of vandetanib or its metabolites in human milk or the effects of vandetanib on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Vandetanib was present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from CAPRELSA in breastfed children , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with CAPRELSA and for 4 months after the final dose .
Data Animal data In nonclinical studies , vandetanib was excreted in rat milk and found in plasma of pups following dosing to lactating rats .
Vandetanib transfer in breast milk resulted in relatively constant exposure in pups due to the long half - life of the drug .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with CAPRELSA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception CAPRELSA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with CAPRELSA and for 4 months after the final dose .
Infertility There are no data on the effect of CAPRELSA on human fertility .
Results from animal studies indicate that vandetanib can impair male and female fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of CAPRELSA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The MTC study of CAPRELSA did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently compared to younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function .
Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance ≥ 30 to < 50 mL / min ) renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( clearance below 30 mL / min ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Patients with end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis were not studied [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of CAPRELSA were evaluated after a single dose of 800 mg in subjects with mild ( n = 8 ) , moderate ( n = 7 ) , and severe ( n = 6 ) hepatic impairment and normal hepatic function ( n = 5 ) .
Subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh class A ) , moderate ( Child - Pugh class B ) , and severe ( Child - Pugh class C ) hepatic impairment had comparable mean AUC and clearance values to those with normal hepatic function .
There are limited data in patients with liver impairment ( serum bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 times the upper limit of normal ) .
CAPRELSA is not recommended for use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment , as safety and efficacy have not been established [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose , monitor patients closely for QTc prolongation .
Adverse events including QT interval prolongation should be monitored closely as they may not resolve fully until approximately three plasma half - lives of the drug .
11 DESCRIPTION Vandetanib has the chemical name N - ( 4 - bromo - 2 - fluorophenyl ) - 6 - methoxy - 7 - [ ( 1 - methylpiperidin - 4 - yl ) methoxy ] quinazolin - 4 - amine .
The structural and molecular formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H24BrFN4O2 Vandetanib has a molecular weight of 475 . 36 .
Vandetanib exhibits pH - dependent solubility , with increased solubility at lower pH . Vandetanib is practically insoluble in water with a value of 0 . 008 mg / mL at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
CAPRELSA tablets for daily oral administration are available in two dosage strengths containing either 100 mg or 300 mg of vandetanib .
The tablet cores contain the following inactive ingredients : calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , crospovidone , povidone , and magnesium stearate .
The tablet film - coat contains the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose 2910 , macrogol 300 , and titanium dioxide E171 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In vitro studies have shown that vandetanib inhibits the tyrosine kinase activity of the EGFR and VEGFR families , RET , BRK , TIE2 , and members of the EPH receptor and Src kinase families .
These receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in both normal cellular function and pathologic processes such as oncogenesis , metastasis , tumor angiogenesis , and maintenance of the tumor microenvironment .
In addition , the N - desmethyl metabolite of the drug , representing 7 to 17 . 1 % of vandetanib exposure , has similar inhibitory activity to the parent compound for VEGF receptors ( KDR and Flt - 1 ) and EGFR .
In vitro , vandetanib inhibited epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) - stimulated receptor tyrosine kinase phosphorylation in tumor cells and endothelial cells and VEGF - stimulated tyrosine kinase phosphorylation in endothelial cells .
In vivo , vandetanib administration reduced tumor cell - induced angiogenesis , tumor vessel permeability , and inhibited tumor growth and metastasis in mouse models of cancer .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In 231 patients with medullary thyroid cancer randomized to receive CAPRELSA 300 mg once daily in the phase 3 clinical trial .
CAPRELSA was associated with sustained plasma concentration - dependent QT prolongation .
Based on the exposure - response relationship , the mean ( 90 % CI ) QTcF change from baseline ( ΔQTcF ) was 35 ( 33 – 36 ) ms for the 300 mg dose .
The ΔQTcF remained above 30 ms for the duration of the trial ( up to 2 years ) .
In addition , 36 % of patients experienced greater than 60 ms increase in ΔQTcF and 4 . 3 % of patients had QTcF greater than 500 ms . Cases of Torsades de pointes and sudden death have occurred [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics A population pharmacokinetic analysis of CAPRELSA was conducted in 231 patients with MTC following oral administration of 300 mg daily doses .
The pharmacokinetics of CAPRELSA at the 300 mg dose in MTC patients are characterized by a mean clearance of approximately 13 . 2 L / h , a mean volume of distribution of approximately 7450 L , and a median plasma half - life of 19 days .
Absorption Following oral administration of CAPRELSA , absorption is slow with peak plasma concentrations typically achieved at a median of 6 hours , range 4 to 10 hours , after dosing .
Vandetanib accumulates approximately 8 - fold on multiple dosing with steady state achieved in approximately 3 months .
Exposure to vandetanib is unaffected by food .
Distribution Vandetanib binds to human serum albumin and α1 - acid - glycoprotein with in vitro protein binding being approximately 90 % .
In ex vivo plasma samples from colorectal cancer patients at steady state exposure after 300 mg once daily , the mean percentage protein binding was 94 % .
Metabolism Following oral dosing of 14 C - vandetanib , unchanged vandetanib and metabolites vandetanib N - oxide and N - desmethyl vandetanib were detected in plasma , urine and feces .
A glucuronide conjugate was seen as a minor metabolite in excreta only .
N - desmethyl - vandetanib is primarily produced by CYP3A4 and vandetanib - N - oxide by flavin - containing monooxygenase enzymes FMO1 and FMO3 .
N - desmethyl - vandetanib and vandetanib - N - oxide circulate at concentrations of approximately 7 – 17 % and 1 . 4 – 2 . 2 % , respectively , of those of vandetanib .
Excretion Within a 21 - day collection period after a single dose of 14 C - vandetanib , approximately 69 % was recovered with 44 % in feces and 25 % in urine .
Excretion of the dose was slow and further excretion beyond 21 days would be expected based on the plasma half - life .
Vandetanib was not a substrate of hOCT2 expressed in HEK293 cells .
Vandetanib inhibits the uptake of the selective OCT2 marker substrate 14 C - creatinine by HEK - OCT2 cells , with a mean IC50 of 2 . 1 μg / mL .
This is higher than vandetanib plasma concentrations ( 0 . 81 μg / mL ) observed after multiple dosing at 300 mg .
Inhibition of renal excretion of creatinine by vandetanib provides an explanation for increases in plasma creatinine seen in human subjects receiving vandetanib .
Specific Populations Effects of age and gender In a population pharmacokinetic evaluation in cancer patients , no relationship was apparent between oral clearance of vandetanib and patient age or gender .
Ethnicity Based on a cross - study comparison in a limited number of patients , Japanese ( N = 3 ) and Chinese ( N = 7 ) patients had average exposures of vandetanib that were higher than Caucasian ( N = 7 ) patients receiving the same dose of CAPRELSA .
Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of vandetanib has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Effect of renal impairment The pharmacokinetics of vandetanib were evaluated after a single CAPRELSA dose of 800 mg in six subjects with mild ( creatinine clearance = 50 to < 80 mL / min ) , eight subjects with moderate ( creatinine clearance ≥ 30 to < 50 mL / min ) , six subjects with severe ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) renal impairment and ten subjects with normal ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) renal function .
Subjects with mild renal impairment had a comparable mean AUC of vandetanib to that with normal renal function .
In subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment , the average AUC of vandetanib increased by 39 % and 41 % , respectively , compared to patients with normal renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Effect of other drugs on CAPRELSA Strong CYP3A4 inducers : In a cross - over study in 12 healthy volunteers , a single oral 300 mg dose of CAPRELSA was administered alone on day 1 and on day 10 in combination with daily doses of 600 mg of rifampicin ( a strong CYP3A4 inducer ) given on days 1 to 31 .
The coadministration of rifampicin with CAPRELSA decreased the geometric mean AUC0 – 504 h of vandetanib by 40 % ( 90 % confidence interval ( CI ) : 56 % , 63 % ) compared to vandetanib alone .
No clinically meaningful change in the mean Cmax of vandetanib was observed .
The geometric mean AUC0 – 504 h and Cmax of N - desmethylvandetanib increased by 266 % and 414 % , respectively , in the presence of rifampicin compared with vandetanib alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : In a cross - over study in 14 healthy volunteers , a single oral 300 mg dose of CAPRELSA was administered alone and on day 4 in combination with daily doses of 200 mg of itraconazole ( a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) given on days 1 to 24 .
No change was observed in the geometric mean AUC0 – 504 h or Cmax of vandetanib when itraconazole was coadministered with CAPRELSA .
Gastric pH elevating agents : In a cross - over study of 14 healthy volunteers , a single oral 300 mg dose of CAPRELSA was administered alone and in combination with five daily doses of 40 mg omeprazole ( a proton pump inhibitor ) .
No clinically meaningful change was observed in the geometric mean AUC0 – 504 h and Cmax of vandetanib when omeprazole was coadministered with CAPRELSA .
In a cross - over study of 16 healthy volunteers , a single 300 mg oral dose of CAPRELSA was administered alone and after two oral doses of 150 mg of ranitidine ( a H2 receptor antagonist ) administered about 12 hours apart .
No change was observed in the geometric mean AUC0 – 504 h and Cmax of vandetanib when ranitidine was coadministered with CAPRELSA .
Effect of CAPRELSA on other drugs Sensitive CYP3A4 substrates : In a cross - over study of 16 healthy volunteers , a single oral 7 . 5 mg dose of midazolam ( as 2 mg / mL oral syrup ) , a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate , was administered alone and 8 days after receiving a single 800 mg oral dose of CAPRELSA .
No change was observed in the geometric mean Cmax and AUCinf of midazolam when CAPRELSA was coadministered with midazolam .
Substrates of OCT2 transporter : In a cross - over study of 13 healthy volunteers , a single 1000 mg oral dose of metformin , a substrate of OCT2 , was administered alone and 3 hours after receiving a single 800 mg oral dose of CAPRELSA .
The coadministration of CAPRELSA with metformin increased the geometric mean AUCinf of metformin by 74 % ( 90 % CI : 58 % , 92 % ) and geometric mean Cmax of metformin by 50 % ( 90 % CI : 34 % , 67 % ) compared to metformin alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Substrates of P - glycoprotein transporter : In a cross - over study of 14 healthy volunteers , a single oral 0 . 25 mg dose of digoxin , a substrate of P - glycoprotein , was administered alone and in combination with a single 300 mg oral dose of CAPRELSA .
The coadministration of CAPRELSA increased the geometric mean Cmax digoxin by 29 % ( 90 % CI : 10 % , 52 % ) and the geometric mean of AUC0 – t of digoxin by 23 % ( 90 % CI : 12 % , 34 % ) compared to digoxin alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Vandetanib was not carcinogenic in a 2 - year study in rats when administered by daily oral gavage at doses of up to 10 mg / kg ( 0 . 7 times the human Cmax at the 300 mg clinical dose ) , or in the Tg ∙ RasH2 mouse when administered by daily oral gavage at doses of up to 30 mg / kg ( ~ 5 times the human Cmax at the clinical dose of 300 mg ) for 26 weeks .
Vandetanib was not mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay and was not clastogenic in either the in vitro cytogenetic assay using human lymphocytes or in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Based on nonclinical findings , male and female fertility may be impaired by treatment with CAPRELSA .
In a fertility study of male rats , vandetanib had no effect on copulation or fertility rate when untreated females were mated with males administered 1 , 5 , or 20 mg / kg / day of vandetanib ( approximately 0 . 03 , 0 . 22 , or 0 . 40 times , respectively , the human exposure based on area under the curve ( AUC ) in patients with cancer at the 300 mg clinical dose ) ; however , in the same study there was a slight decrease in the number of live embryos in females mated with males treated at the 20 mg / kg / day dose level and an increase in preimplantation loss in females mated with males administered vandetanib at doses of ≥ 5 mg / kg / day .
In a female fertility study , there was a trend towards increased estrus cycle irregularity , a slight reduction in pregnancy incidence and an increase in implantation loss .
In a one - month repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , there was a decrease in the number of corpora lutea in the ovaries of rats administered 75 mg / kg / day vandetanib ( approximately 1 . 8 times the human exposure based on AUC at the 300 mg clinical dose ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In an animal model of wound - healing , mice dosed with vandetanib had reduced skin - breaking strength compared with controls .
This suggests that CAPRELSA slows but does not prevent wound healing .
The appropriate interval between discontinuation of CAPRELSA and subsequent elective surgery required to avoid the risks of impaired wound healing has not been determined .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( Study D4200C00058 , NCT00410761 ) randomized patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer to CAPRELSA 300 mg ( n = 231 ) versus placebo ( n = 100 ) .
The major efficacy outcome measure was progression - free survival ( PFS ) with CAPRELSA compared to placebo .
Other efficacy outcome measures included evaluation of overall survival ( OS ) and overall objective response rate ( ORR ) .
Centralized , independent blinded review of the imaging data was used in the assessment of PFS and ORR .
Upon objective disease progression based on the investigator ' s assessment , patients were discontinued from blinded study treatment and given the option to receive open - label CAPRELSA .
Forty - seven percent ( 109 / 231 ) of the patients initially randomized to CAPRELSA opted to receive open - label CAPRELSA after disease progression , and 79 % ( 79 / 100 ) of the patients initially randomized to placebo opted to receive open - label CAPRELSA after disease progression .
The result of the PFS analysis , based on the central review RECIST assessment , showed a statistically significant improvement in PFS for patients randomized to CAPRELSA ( Hazard Ratio ( HR ) = 0 . 35 ; 95 % Confidence Interval ( CI ) = 0 . 24 - 0 . 53 ; p < 0 . 001 ) .
Analyses in the subgroups of patients who were symptomatic or had progressed within 6 months prior to their enrollment showed similar PFS results ( HR = 0 . 31 95 % CI : 0 . 19 , 0 . 53 for symptomatic patients ; HR = 0 . 41 95 % CI : 0 . 25 , 0 . 66 for patients who had progressed within 6 months prior to enrollment ) .
Median final OS were similar across both treatment arms .
The overall objective response rate ( ORR ) for patients randomized to CAPRELSA was 44 % compared to 1 % for patients randomized to placebo .
All objective responses were partial responses .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Curves for Progression Free Survival in Study D4200C00058 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 3 : Efficacy Results in Study D4200C00058 Vandetanib 300 mg ( N = 231 ) Placebo ( N = 100 ) Progression Free Survival Events ( % ) 59 ( 26 . 0 ) 41 ( 41 . 0 ) Median , months NR [ 1 ] 16 . 4 ( 95 % CI ) ( 22 . 6 , NE [ 2 ] ) ( 8 . 3 , 19 . 7 ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 35 ( 0 . 24 , 0 . 53 ) p - value < 0 . 001 Overall Survival Deaths ( % ) 116 ( 50 . 2 ) 52 ( 52 . 0 ) Median , months 81 . 6 80 . 4 ( 95 % CI ) ( 64 . 6 , 98 . 5 ) ( 52 . 5 , NE ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 72 , 1 . 38 ) p - value 0 . 975 [ 1 ] Not reached [ 2 ] Not estimable [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • OSHA Hazardous Drugs ( OSHA Technical Manual ) .
OSHA .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 100 mg Tablets available in bottles containing 30 tablets ( NDC 58468 - 7820 - 3 ) .
300 mg Tablets available in bottles containing 30 tablets ( NDC 58468 - 7840 - 3 ) .
16 . 1 Storage and Handling CAPRELSA tablets should be stored at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted to 59 ° F – 86 ° F ( 15 ° C - 30 ° C ) [ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
A guideline on this subject has been published . 1 Do not crush CAPRELSA tablets .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
QT Prolongation and Torsades de Pointes Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of syncope , pre - syncopal symptoms , and cardiac palpitations .
Advise patients that their healthcare provider will monitor their electrolytes and ECGs during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Severe Skin Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of skin reactions or rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) Advise patients to contact their health care provider in the event of sudden onset or worsening of breathlessness , persistent cough or fever [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Diarrhea Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of seizures , headaches , visual disturbances , confusion or difficulty thinking [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Impaired Wound Healing Advise patients that CAPRELSA may impair wound healing .
Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of any planned surgical procedure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with CAPRELSA and for 4 months following the last dose .
Advise females to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant , or if pregnancy is suspected , during treatment with CAPRELSA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with CAPRELSA and for 4 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Photosensitivity Advise patients to use appropriate sun protection due to the increased susceptibility to sunburn while taking CAPRELSA and for at least 4 months after drug discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Advise patients that CAPRELSA can be taken with or without food and not to crush CAPRELSA tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Genzyme Corporation Cambridge , MA 02142 CAPRELSA is a registered trademark of Genzyme Corporation .
© 2022 Genzyme Corporation .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : March 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE CAPRELSA ® ( kap - rel - sah ) ( vandetanib ) Tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking CAPRELSA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about CAPRELSA ?
CAPRELSA can cause a change in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation , which can cause irregular heartbeats and that may lead to death .
You should not take CAPRELSA if you have had a condition called long QT syndrome since birth .
Your healthcare provider should perform tests to check the levels of your blood potassium , calcium , magnesium , and thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) , as well as the electrical activity of your heart with a test called an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) .
You should have these tests : • Before starting CAPRELSA • Regularly during CAPRELSA treatment : • 2 to 4 weeks after starting CAPRELSA • 8 to 12 weeks after starting CAPRELSA • every 3 months thereafter • if your healthcare provider changes your dose of CAPRELSA • if you start taking medicine that causes QT prolongation • as instructed by your healthcare provider Your healthcare provider may stop your CAPRELSA treatment for a while and restart you at a lower dose if you have QT prolongation .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you feel faint , light - headed , or feel your heart beating irregularly while taking CAPRELSA .
These may be symptoms related to QT prolongation .
What is CAPRELSA ?
CAPRELSA is a prescription medicine used to treat medullary thyroid cancer that cannot be removed by surgery or that has spread to other parts of the body .
It takes a long time to get rid of CAPRELSA from your body and you may be at risk for side effects related to CAPRELSA after you have stopped your treatment .
It is not known if CAPRELSA is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take CAPRELSA ?
Do not take CAPRELSA if you have had QT prolongation .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking CAPRELSA ?
Before you take CAPRELSA , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have any heart problems , including a condition called congenital long QT syndrome • have an irregular heartbeat • take or have stopped taking a medicine that causes QT prolongation • have low blood levels of potassium , calcium , or magnesium • have high blood levels of thyroid - stimulating hormone • have high blood pressure • have skin problems • have a history of breathing problems • have a recent history of coughing up blood or bleeding • have diarrhea • have liver problems • have kidney problems • have seizures or are being treated for seizures • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
CAPRELSA can cause harm to your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• Females who are able to become pregnant : Your healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test before you begin treatment with CAPRELSA .
• You should use effective birth control during your treatment with CAPRELSA and for at least 4 months after your last dose of CAPRELSA .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods to prevent pregnancy while you are taking CAPRELSA .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if CAPRELSA passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 4 months after your last dose of CAPRELSA .
• plan to have surgery or have had a recent surgery .
You should stop taking CAPRELSA at least 1 month before planned surgery .
See " What are the possible side effects of CAPRELSA ? "
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
CAPRELSA and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • St . John ' s wort .
You should not take St . John ' s wort while taking CAPRELSA • certain medicines that can affect how your liver breaks down medicine • a medicine for your heart Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above .
Do not take other medicines while taking CAPRELSA until you have talked with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take CAPRELSA ?
• Take CAPRELSA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not change your dose or stop taking CAPRELSA unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• CAPRELSA may be taken with or without food .
• Swallow CAPRELSA tablets whole with water .
• Do not crush CAPRELSA tablets .
If CAPRELSA tablets are accidentally crushed , contact with skin should be avoided .
If contact occurs , wash affected areas well with water .
• If you cannot swallow CAPRELSA tablets whole : • place your dose of CAPRELSA in a glass that contains 2 ounces of noncarbonated water ( no other liquids should be used ) .
• stir the CAPRELSA tablet ( s ) and water mixture for about 10 minutes or until the tablet ( s ) are in very small pieces ( the tablets will not completely dissolve ) .
• swallow CAPRELSA and water mixture right away .
• if any CAPRELSA and water mixture remains in the glass , mix with an additional 4 ounces of noncarbonated water and swallow the mixture to make sure that you take your full dose of CAPRELSA .
• If you miss a dose and your next dose is in : • less than 12 hours , take your next dose at the normal time .
Do not make up for the missed dose .
• 12 hours or more , take the missed dose as soon as you remember .
Take the next dose at the normal time .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you take too much CAPRELSA .
• During treatment with CAPRELSA , your healthcare provider should check your blood and heart for side effects .
See " What is the most important information I should know about CAPRELSA ? "
• Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure regularly during your treatment with CAPRELSA .
What should I avoid while taking CAPRELSA ?
• Limit exposure to the sun .
CAPRELSA can make your skin sensitive to the sun .
During treatment with CAPRELSA and for at least 4 months after stopping treatment with CAPRELSA , use sun block and wear clothes that cover your skin , including your head , arms , and legs when you go outdoors .
• Use caution before driving or using machinery .
Keep in mind CAPRELSA may make you feel tired , or cause blurred vision .
What are the possible side effects of CAPRELSA ?
CAPRELSA may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about CAPRELSA ? "
• Severe skin reactions .
CAPRELSA can cause severe skin reactions that can lead to death , such as toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome , or other serious skin reactions that may affect any part of your body .
These severe skin reactions may be life threatening and you may need to be treated in a hospital .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you experience any of these symptoms .
• skin rash or acne • dry skin • itching • blisters on your skin • redness or swelling of your face , hands , or soles of your feet • blisters or sores in your mouth • peeling of your skin • fever • muscle or joint aches • Breathing problems ( interstitial lung disease ) .
CAPRELSA may cause a breathing problem called interstitial lung disease that can lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you experience sudden or worsening shortness of breath , cough that does not go away ( persistent ) or fever .
• Stroke .
Strokes have been reported in some people who have taken CAPRELSA and in some cases have caused death .
Stop taking CAPRELSA and call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms of a stroke which may include : • numbness or weakness of the face , arm or leg , especially on one side of the body • sudden confusion , trouble speaking or understanding • sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes • sudden trouble walking , dizziness , loss of balance or coordination • sudden , severe headache • Bleeding .
CAPRELSA can cause serious bleeding that can lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have severe bleeding while you are taking CAPRELSA .
• Heart failure .
CAPRELSA can cause heart failure that can lead to death .
You may have to stop taking CAPRELSA if you have heart failure .
Heart failure may not be reversible after stopping CAPRELSA .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
• Diarrhea .
Diarrhea is common with CAPRELSA and can be severe .
Your healthcare provider should check your blood levels to monitor your electrolytes more frequently if you have diarrhea .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop diarrhea during treatment with CAPRELSA .
• Thyroid hormones .
You can have changes in your thyroid hormone when taking CAPRELSA .
Your healthcare provider should monitor your thyroid hormone levels while taking CAPRELSA .
• High blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
If you develop high blood pressure or your high blood pressure gets worse , your healthcare provider may lower your dose of CAPRELSA or tell you to stop taking CAPRELSA until your blood pressure is under control .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe another medicine to control your high blood pressure .
• Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) .
A condition called reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome can happen while taking CAPRELSA .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • seizures • headaches • changes in vision • confusion • problems thinking • Kidney problems .
CAPRELSA may cause problems with your kidneys , including kidney failure .
• Wound healing problems .
Wounds may not heal properly during CAPRELSA treatment .
Tell your healthcare provider if you plan to have any surgery before starting or during treatment with CAPRELSA .
• You should stop taking CAPRELSA at least 1 month before planned surgery .
• Your healthcare provider should tell you when you may start taking CAPRELSA again after surgery .
The most common side effects of CAPRELSA include : • rash • acne • high blood pressure • nausea • headache • upper respiratory tract infections • decreased appetite • stomach - area ( abdominal ) pain Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of CAPRELSA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CAPRELSA ?
• Store CAPRELSA tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or that you no longer need .
Ask your pharmacist how to safely throw away CAPRELSA tablets .
Keep CAPRELSA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about CAPRELSA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use CAPRELSA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CAPRELSA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes important information about CAPRELSA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about CAPRELSA that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . caprelsa . com or call 1 - 800 - 817 - 2722 .
What are the ingredients in CAPRELSA ?
Active ingredient : vandetanib Inactive ingredients : • Tablet core : calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , crospovidone , povidone , and magnesium stearate • Tablet film - coat : hypromellose 2910 , macrogol 300 , and titanium dioxide E171 Manufactured for : Genzyme Corporation , Cambridge , MA 02142 CAPRELSA is a registered trademark of Genzyme Corporation .
© 2022 Genzyme Corporation .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Tablet Bottle Carton NDC 58468 - 7820 - 3 Rx only Caprelsa ® ( vandetanib ) tablets 100 mg Dispense enclosed medication guide to each patient .
30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 300 mg Tablet Bottle Carton NDC 58468 - 7840 - 3 Rx only Caprelsa ® ( vandetanib ) tablets 300 mg Dispense enclosed medication guide to each patient .
30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
