Active Ingredient : Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne Treatment USES : For the treatment of acne .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Do not use if you : • Have sensitive skin .
• Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
When using the product : • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If this occurs only use one topical acne medication at a time • Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics which may be bleached by this product • Skin irritation may occur characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : Irritation become severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients : Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Benzyl Alcohol , Carbomer , Disodium EDTA , Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Glycerin , Panthenol , PEG - 8 , PEG - 14 Palmeth - 60 Hexyl Dicarbamate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Triethanolamine , and Water .
OTHER INFORMATION : • Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Questions ?
: 866 - 494 - 4466 , Mon - Fri 8 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM Dist .
By Axia Medical Solutions , 2105 Camino Vida Roble , Carlsbad , Ca . 92011 www . dermesse . com 866 - 494 - 4466 office , 760 - 931 - 8267 fax [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
