WARNING : ASTHMA EXACERBATION WITH NEBULIZATION and DEPLETION OF TRACE METALS DURING THERAPY • Nebulized Ca - DTPA may be associated with asthma exacerbation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ca - DTPA is associated with depletion of trace metals such as zinc .
The magnitude of depletion increases with split daily dosing , with increasing dose and with increased treatment duration .
Only a single dose of Ca - DTPA is recommended .
Use Zn - DTPA if additional chelation therapy is indicated .
Monitor serum zinc levels , serum creatinine , BUN , electrolytes , urinalysis and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) WARNING : ASTHMA EXACERBATION WITH NEBULIZATION and DEPLETION OF TRACE METALS DURING THERAPY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Nebulized Ca - DTPA may be associated with asthma exacerbation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ca - DTPA is associated with depletion of trace metals such as zinc .
The magnitude of depletion increases with split daily dosing , with increasing dose and with increased treatment duration .
Only a single dose of Ca - DTPA is recommended .
Use Zn - DTPA if additional chelation therapy is indicated .
Monitor serum zinc levels , serum creatinine , BUN , electrolytes , urinalysis and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ca - DTPA is indicated for treatment of individuals with known or suspected internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium to increase the rates of elimination .
Pentetate calcium trisodium injection is a radiomitigation chelator indicated for treatment of individuals with known or suspected internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium to increase the rates of elimination .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the first 24 hours .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) In adults and adolescents , administer intravenously a single 1 . 0 gram Ca - DTPA dose .
( 2 . 1 ) In children less than 12 years of age , administer intravenously , a single 14 mg / kg Ca - DTPA dose , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram .
( 2 . 1 ) Zn - DTPA is recommended for maintenance chelation therapy after the first 24 hours .
If Zn - DTPA is unavailable , chelation therapy may continue with Ca - DTPA .
( 2 . 1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for dose ( 2 . 1 ) and nebulized chelation therapy ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dose Administer Ca - DTPA as the initial dose during the first 24 hours after internal contamination .
Ca - DTPA is more effective than Zn - DTPA during this time period .
If Ca - DTPA is not available , use Zn - DTPA as the initial therapy .
On the next day , if additional chelation therapy is indicated , begin daily treatment with Zn - DTPA ( see Zn - DTPA labeling ) .
If Zn - DTPA is not available , chelation therapy may continue with Ca - DTPA ; concomitant mineral supplements containing zinc should be given .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Do not administer more than one dose per 24 hour period .
Adults and Adolescents A single 1 . 0 gram initial dose of Ca - DTPA administered intravenously .
Children less than 12 years of age A single 14 mg / kg initial dose of Ca - DTPA administered intravenously , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram .
If Zn - DTPA is not available For adults and adolescents , the recommended maintenance dose is 1 . 0 gram Ca - DTPA once daily administered intravenously .
For children less than 12 years of age , the recommended maintenance dose is 14 mg / kg Ca - DTPA once daily administered intravenously , not to exceed 1 . 0 gram per day .
Renally Impaired Patients No dose adjustment is needed .
However , renal impairment may reduce the rate at which chelators remove radiocontaminants from the body .
In heavily contaminated patients with renal impairment , dialysis may be used to increase the rate of elimination .
High efficiency high flux dialysis is recommended .
Because dialysis fluid will become radioactive , radiation precautions must be taken to protect personnel , other patients , and the general public .
2 . 2 General Chelation treatment is most effective if administered within the first 24 hours after internal contamination .
Start chelation treatment as soon as possible after suspected or known internal contamination .
When treatment cannot be started right away , give chelation treatment as soon as it becomes available .
Chelation treatment is still effective even after time has elapsed following internal contamination .
The chelating effects of Ca - DTPA are greatest when radiocontaminants are still circulating or are in interstitial fluids .
The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time following internal contamination as the radiocontaminants become sequestered in liver and bone .
If internal contamination with radiocontaminants other than plutonium , americium , or curium , or unknown radiocontaminants is suspected , additional therapies may be needed ( e . g . , Prussian blue , potassium iodide ) .
2 . 3 Methods of Administration Use intravenous administration of Ca - DTPA if the route of internal contamination is not known or if multiple routes of internal contamination are likely .
Administer Ca - DTPA solution ( 1 gram in 5 mL ) either with a slow intravenous push over a period of 3 - 4 minutes or by intravenous infusion diluted in 100 - 250 mL of 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) , Ringers Lactate , or Normal Saline .
In individuals whose internal contamination is only by inhalation within the preceding 24 hours , Ca - DTPA can be administered by nebulized inhalation as an alternative route of administration .
Dilute Ca - DTPA for nebulization at a 1 : 1 ratio with sterile water or saline .
After nebulization , encourage patients to avoid swallowing any expectorant .
Some individuals may experience respiratory adverse events after inhalation therapy .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] The safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration have not been established in the pediatric population .
The safety and effectiveness of the intramuscular route of injection have not been established .
[ See Overdosage ( 10 ) ] 2 . 4 Monitoring When possible , obtain baseline blood and urine samples ( CBC with differential , serum creatinine , BUN and electrolytes , urinalysis , and blood and urine radioassays ) before initiating treatment .
Ca - DTPA must be given with very careful monitoring of serum zinc and complete blood counts .
When appropriate , administer vitamin or mineral supplements that contain zinc .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] To establish an elimination curve , obtain a quantitative baseline estimate of the total internalized transuranium element ( s ) and measures of elimination of radioactivity by appropriate whole - body counting , by bioassay ( e . g . , biodosimetry ) , or fecal / urine sample whenever possible .
During Treatment • Measure the radioactivity in blood , urine , and fecal samples weekly to monitor the radioactive contaminant elimination rate .
• Monitor CBC with differential , BUN , serum creatinine and electrolytes , and urinalysis .
If the individual is receiving more than one dose of Ca - DTPA , consider mineral supplementation as appropriate based on these laboratory tests .
• Record any adverse events from Ca - DTPA .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1000 mg / 5 mL single - use ampoules .
1000 mg / 5 mL single - use ampoules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Nebulized Ca - DTPA may be associated with exacerbation of asthma .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of asthma exacerbation when administering Ca - DTPA by the inhalation route .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ca - DTPA is associated with depletion of endogenous trace metals ( e . g . , zinc , magnesium , manganese ) .
( 5 . 2 ) • Take appropriate safety measures to minimize contamination of care - takers by contaminated body fluids .
( 5 . 3 ) • Use Ca - DTPA with caution in individuals with severe hemochromatosis .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Asthma Exacerbation Nebulized Ca - DTPA is associated with asthma exacerbation .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of asthma exacerbation when administering Ca - DTPA by the inhalation route .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] 5 . 2 Depletion of Body Trace Mineral Stores Ca - DTPA is associated with depletion of endogenous trace metals ( e . g . , zinc , magnesium , manganese ) .
The magnitude of depletion increases with split daily dosing , with increasing dose , and with increased treatment duration .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Only a single initial dose of Ca - DTPA is recommended .
Use Zn - DTPA if additional chelation therapy is indicated ( See Zn - DTPA labeling ) .
If Zn - DTPA is not available , chelation therapy may continue with Ca - DTPA but give mineral supplements containing zinc concomitantly , as appropriate .
Monitor serum zinc levels , electrolytes and blood cell counts during Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA therapy .
Give mineral or vitamin plus mineral supplements that contain zinc as appropriate .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] 5 . 3 Risks to Care - takers Radioactive metals are known to be excreted in the urine , feces , and breast milk .
In individuals with recent internal contamination with plutonium , americium , or curium , Ca - DTPA treatment increases excretion of radioactivity in the urine .
Take appropriate safety measures to minimize contamination of others .
[ See Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] 5 . 4 Risks for Patients with Hemochromatosis Use of only a single Ca - DTPA dose is particularly important for patients with hemochromatosis .
Deaths have been reported in patients with severe hemochromatosis who received Ca - DTPA for more than 1 day , by intramuscular injection .
[ See Overdosage ( 10 ) ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In the U . S . Registry , a total of 646 individuals received at least one dose of either Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA .
Of these , 632 received Ca - DTPA by one or more routes of administration .
Three hundred and twenty - six individuals were dosed by inhalation , 293 by intravenous injection , and 60 by other or unknown routes of administration .
Of the individuals that received Ca - DTPA , 393 / 632 ( 62 % ) received one dose and 65 ( 10 % ) received two doses .
The remaining 174 individuals received three or more doses .
The largest number of Ca - DTPA doses to a single individual was 338 delivered over 6 . 5 years .
Overall , the presence or absence of adverse events was recorded in 310 / 646 individuals .
Of these 19 ( 6 . 1 % ) individuals reported at least one adverse event .
The total number of recorded adverse events was 20 .
Of the 20 adverse events , 18 adverse events occurred after treatment with Ca - DTPA .
Adverse events included headache , lightheadedness , chest pain , allergic reaction , dermatitis , metallic taste , nausea and diarrhea , and injection site reactions .
Cough and / or wheezing were experienced by 2 individuals receiving nebulized Ca - DTPA , one of whom had a history of asthma .
In literature reports , prolonged treatment with Ca - DTPA resulted in depletion of zinc , magnesium , manganese and possibly metalloproteinases .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] There is limited experience with Ca - DTPA .
Adverse events included headache , lightheadedness , chest pain , allergic reaction , dermatitis , metallic taste , nausea and diarrhea , and injection site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the hameln Pharmacovigilance Department at + 44 ( 0 ) 7706 210 133 or drugsafety @ hameln . co . uk or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Adequate and well - controlled drug - drug interaction studies in humans were not identified in the literature .
When an individual is contaminated with multiple radiocontaminants , or when the radiocontaminants are unknown , additional therapies may be needed ( e . g . , Prussian blue , potassium iodide ) .
Adequate and well - controlled drug - drug interaction studies in humans were not identified in the literature .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , Ca - DTPA may cause fetal harm .
Chelation treatment of pregnant women should begin and continue with Zn - DTPA .
If Zn - DTPA is not available , Ca - DTPA should be used .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Women with known or suspected internal contamination with radiocontaminants should not breast feed , whether or not they are receiving chelation therapy .
( 5 . 3 , 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of intravenous Ca - DTPA were extrapolated from adults .
Safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Ca - DTPA use in pregnant women .
Ca - DTPA chelation therapy causes depletion of body stores of zinc , a trace metal essential for fetal development [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The consequences of zinc depletion and results of animal studies suggest a teratogenic risk in humans .
Ca - DTPA was teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice at daily doses 2 to 8 times the recommended daily human dose , based on body surface area ( BSA ) , with a dose - dependent increase in the frequency of gross malformations .
Ca - DTPA was teratogenic in dogs at approximately half the recommended daily human dose based on BSA , as described below .
There are no animal or human data evaluating the teratogenic effect of a single dose of Ca - DTPA .
Ca - DTPA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Clinical Considerations Chelation treatment of pregnant women should begin and continue with Zn - DTPA , if available , except in cases of high internal radioactive contamination .
Because Ca - DTPA is more effective than Zn - DTPA in the first 24 hours after internal contamination , it may be appropriate to use a single dose of Ca - DTPA with vitamin or mineral supplements that contain zinc as the initial treatment .
Animal Data Ca - DTPA is teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice during any period of gestation following five daily subcutaneous injections of 720 to 2880 micromol Ca - DTPA / kg [ 2 to 8 times the recommended daily human dose of 1 gram based on BSA ] .
The frequency of gross malformations ( e . g . , exencephaly , spina bifida , cleft palate , ablepharia , and polydactyly ) and fetal mortality increased with dose , with higher susceptibility in early and mid gestation .
Five daily doses of 360 micromol Ca - DTPA / kg in mice , approximately equivalent to the recommended daily human dose ( based on BSA ) produced no harmful effects .
A study of two pregnant dogs given daily intravenous injections of 30 micromol Ca - DTPA / kg ( approximately half the recommended daily human dose based on BSA ) from implantation until parturition showed severe teratogenic effects ( brain damage ) , and decrease in the number of surviving pups .
8 . 3 Nursing mothers It is not known whether Ca - DTPA is excreted in human milk .
Radiocontaminants are known to be excreted in breast milk .
Women with known or suspected internal contamination with radiocontaminants should not breast feed , whether or not they are receiving chelation therapy .
Precautions should be taken when discarding breast milk .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 8 . 4 Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of Ca - DTPA were established in the adult population and efficacy was extrapolated to the pediatric population for the intravenous route based on the comparability of pathophysiologic mechanisms .
The dose is based on body size adjustment for an intravenous drug that is renally cleared [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of the nebulized route of administration have not been established in the pediatric population .
10 OVERDOSAGE In previous clinical studies , three deaths were reported in patients with severe hemochromatosis who were treated with daily intramuscular Ca - DTPA dosed up to 4 gram per day to reduce iron stores .
One patient became comatose and died after receiving a total of 14 grams Ca - DTPA , and the other two died after two weeks of daily treatment .
Causal association with these events and the drug has not been established .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 11 DESCRIPTION Pentetate calcium trisodium injection contains the sodium salt of calcium diethylenetriaminepentaacetate .
Pentetate calcium trisodium is also known as trisodium calcium diethylenetriaminepentaacetate and is commonly referred to as Ca - DTPA .
It has a molecular formula of Na3CaC14H18N3O10 and a molecular weight of 497 . 4 Daltons .
It is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ca - DTPA is supplied as a clear , colorless , hyperosmolar ( 1260 mOsmol / kg ) solution in a colorless ampoule containing 5 mL .
The ampoule contents are sterile , non - pyrogenic and suitable for intravenous administration .
Each mL of solution contains the equivalent of 200 mg pentetate calcium trisodium ( obtained from 158 . 17 mg pentetic acid , 40 . 24 mg calcium carbonate and NaOH ) in water for injection , USP .
The pH of the solution is adjusted with NaOH and is between 7 . 3 - 8 . 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ca - DTPA forms stable chelates with metal ions by exchanging calcium for a metal of greater binding capacity .
The radioactive chelates are then excreted by glomerular filtration into the urine .
In animal studies , Ca - DTPA forms less stable chelates with uranium and neptunium in vivo resulting in the deposition of these elements in tissues including the bone .
Ca - DTPA treatments are not expected to be effective for uranium and neptunium .
Radioactive iodine is not bound by DTPA .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a study of rodents internally contaminated with plutonium , the rate of plutonium elimination was measured after treatment with Ca - DTPA and Zn - DTPA given intravenously as a single dose of 10 to 1 , 000 micromol / kg ( 0 . 54 - 54 × maximum human dose , MHD ) .
When treated within one hour of internal contamination , Ca - DTPA resulted in about a 10 - fold higher rate of elimination of plutonium in the urine as compared to Zn - DTPA .
The chelating capacity of Ca - DTPA is greatest immediately and up to approximately 24 hours after internal contamination , a time period when the radiocontaminant is still circulating and readily available for chelation .
After the first dose of Ca - DTPA , maintenance treatment with either Ca - DTPA or Zn - DTPA resulted in similar rates of elimination of radioactivity .
However , at comparable doses , Ca - DTPA had more toxicity ( e . g . , more depletion of trace metals , higher rate of mortality , the presence of kidney and liver vacuolization , and small bowel hemorrhagic lesions ) .
In another study , rodents contaminated with aerosolized plutonium and americium were treated with Ca - DTPA and Zn - DTPA .
The treatment schedule involved inhalation of Ca - DTPA 2 micromol / kg ( 0 . 11 MHD ) 30 minutes after contamination followed by inhalation of Zn - DTPA 2 micromol / kg at approximately 6 hours , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 6 days , then twice weekly to day 26 or day 27 .
The treatment regime reduced the lung deposit of plutonium and americium to 1 - 2 % of that in untreated animals .
Systemic deposit in liver and skeleton were reduced by half .
Literature and U . S . Registry data in humans indicate that intravenous administration of Ca - DTPA forms chelates with radioactive contaminants found in the circulation , interstitial fluid , and tissues .
When Ca - DTPA is administered by inhalation within 24 hours of internal radioactive contamination , it can chelate transuranium elements .
Expectoration is expected to decrease the amount of radioactive contaminant available for systemic absorption .
The effectiveness of chelation decreases with time after internal contamination because the transuranium elements become incorporated into the tissues .
Give chelation treatment as soon as possible after known or suspected internal contamination with transuranium elements has occurred .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma retention and urinary excretion data were obtained in 2 subjects that received 750 kBq of 14 C - DTPA .
As shown in Figure 1 , the radiolabeled DTPA was rapidly distributed throughout the extracellular fluid space and was cleared by glomerular filtration .
The plasma retention up to 7 hours post dosing was expressed by the sum of three exponential components with average half - lives of 1 . 4 min , 14 . 5 min , and 94 . 4 min .
The level of activity in the plasma was below the limit of detection 24 hours after injection .
During the study , no detectable activity was exhaled or excreted in the feces .
By 24 hours , cumulative urinary excretion was more than 99 % of the injected dose .
Figure 1 : Percent of 14 C - DTPA Distribution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Absorption Ca - DTPA is poorly absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract .
In animal studies , after oral administration , absorption was approximately 5 % .
In a U . S . Registry of 18 patients who received a single inhaled or intravenous dose of 1 gram , urine data indicate that the inhaled product was absorbed and resulted in a comparable elimination of the radiocontaminant .
One study of 2 human subjects that received Ca - DTPA with 14 C - DTPA by inhalation revealed approximately 20 % absorption from the lungs .
Human or animal bioavailability comparisons for Ca - DTPA are not available after administration by inhalation and intravenous injection .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] Distribution Following intravenous administration , Ca - DTPA is rapidly distributed throughout the extracellular fluid space .
No significant amount of Ca - DTPA penetrates into erythrocytes or other cells .
No accumulation of Ca - DTPA in specific organs has been observed .
There is little or no binding of the chelating agent by the renal parenchyma .
Metabolism Ca - DTPA undergoes a minimal amount of metabolic change in the body .
Adverse Metabolic Effects Studies in animals and humans showed that Ca - DTPA binds endogenous metals of the body ( i . e . , zinc ( Zn ) , magnesium ( Mg ) and manganese ( Mn ) ) .
In an animal study , high doses of Ca - DTPA led to the loss of zinc and manganese mainly from the small intestine , skeleton , pancreas , and testes .
Dosing over several days resulted in mobilization or binding of endogenous metals in exchange for calcium and a consequent impairment of metal - controlled or activated systems .
The rate and amount of endogenous metal depletion increased with split daily dosing and with the length of treatment .
Depletion of these endogenous metals can interfere with necessary mitotic cellular processes .
Over longer time periods , depletion of zinc due to Ca - DTPA therapy may result in transient inhibition of a metalloenzyme - δ - aminolevulinic acid dehydrase ( ALAD ) in the blood and suppressed hematopoiesis .
Elimination Ca - DTPA is cleared from the plasma in the first few hours after dosing through urinary excretion by glomerular filtration .
Renal tubular excretion has not been documented .
In stool samples tested , only a very small amount of radioactivity ( < 3 % ) was detected .
Renal Impaired and / or Compromised Liver Function Patients Adequate and well - controlled pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies in renally impaired and / or hepatically impaired patients were not identified in the literature .
Both Ca - DTPA and its radioactive chelates are excreted by glomerular filtration .
Impaired renal function may decrease their rates of elimination and increase the serum half - life of Ca - DTPA .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Ca - DTPA to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility have not been performed .
Data for Ca - DTPA effects on spermatogenesis are not available .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] 14 CLINICAL STUDIES All clinical data has come from the treatment of individuals who were accidentally contaminated .
Observational data were maintained in a U . S . Registry of individuals with internal radioactive contamination primarily from acute occupational contamination with plutonium , americium , and curium .
In 286 individuals , bioassays were available to measure urinary radioactivity elimination after chelation therapy .
Of these 286 individuals , 18 had matched pre - and post - chelator urine radioactivity bioassay results available .
Seventeen of these individuals received 1 gram of Ca - DTPA as the first dose .
Of these , 9 individuals received the first dose by nebulization ( 1 : 1 Ca - DTPA and saline ) and 8 received Ca - DTPA intravenously .
The elimination of radiocontaminants was measured using the ratio of the urine radioactivity before treatment to the maximum urine radioactivity after treatment ( the excretion enhancement factor , EEF ) .
As shown in Table 1 , after one dose , the mean EEF was 25 . 7 .
The descriptive results and variability for the intravenous , inhaled , and combined routes are considered to be similar .
Table 1 : Urine Excretion Enhancement Factor ( EEF ) of Transuranium Elements after an Initial Dose of 1 g ( Ca - DTPA , N = 17 ) Results Intravenous Inhaled Combined Routes Mean 25 . 9 25 . 4 25 . 7 Median 12 . 5 19 . 3 12 . 8 SD 33 . 8 28 . 2 30 . 1 Range 1 . 1 - 396 . 1 0 . 5 - 80 . 0 0 . 5 - 396 . 1 After initial treatment with Ca - DTPA , maintenance treatment was continued with 1 gram Zn - DTPA doses over a period of days , months or years , depending upon the extent of internal contamination and individual response to therapy .
Most patients received a single dose of Ca - DTPA .
The longest treatment duration was approximately 6 . 5 years .
Similar increases in urinary radioactivity elimination following chelator administration were supported by data from the remaining 268 individuals in the U . S . Registry and from the literature .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ca - DTPA is supplied as a sterile solution in 5 mL single - use clear glass ampoules at a concentration of 200 mg / mL for intravenous use .
Each ampoule contains the equivalent of 1000 mg of pentetate calcium trisodium .
NDC 70651 - 001 - 03 : 5 mL single - dose ampoules , package of 10 .
16 . 2 Storage Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
16 . 3 Handling Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The product may be filtered using a sterile filter if particles are seen subsequent to opening of the ampoule .
OPC ampoule : to open , turn so that the point faces upward and break off the neck with a downward movement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients to : • drink plenty of fluids and void frequently to promote dilution of the radioactive chelate in the urine and minimize radiation exposure directly to the bladder .
• use a toilet instead of a urinal , and flush several times after each use .
• clean up spilled urine or feces completely and wash hands thoroughly .
Wash clothing or linens separately if blood or urine comes in contact .
• dispose of any expectorant carefully .
Avoid swallowing the expectorant if possible .
Instruct parents and child - care givers to take extra precaution in handling the urine , feces , and expectorants of children to avoid any additional exposure to either the care - giver or to the child .
Instruct nursing mothers to take extra precaution in disposing of breast milk .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] 18 COLLECTION OF PATIENT TREATMENT DATA To develop long - term response data and information on the risk of developing late malignancy , provide detailed information on patient treatment to the manufacturer ( see Patient Treatment Data Form ) .
In case you need additional forms , please use the enclosed form as a template or see the following website : www . ca - dtpa . com .
Include a record of the radioactive body burden and bioassay results at defined time intervals , a description of measurement methods to facilitate analysis of data , and adverse events .
Questions regarding the use of Ca - DTPA for the treatment of internal contamination with transuranium elements may be referred to : hameln pharmaceuticals ltd Nexus Gloucester Business Park Gloucester , GL3 4 AG United Kingdom Tel : + 44 / 1452 / 621661 Fax : + 44 / 1452 / 632732 e - mail : drugsafety @ hameln . co . uk Contact person : Richard Wysocki Phone : + 44 / 1452 / 621661 Fax : + 44 / 1452 / 632732 Email : r . wysocki @ hameln . co . uk Revised : 10 / 2016 44641 / 17 / 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Ampoule Package Pentetate calcium trisodium injection 5 mL 1000 mg 10 x 5 mL Single - Dose Ampoules For intravenous or inhalation use only .
hameln [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
