HIPREX ® ( methenamine hippurate tablets USP ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of HIPREX ( methenamine hippurate tablets USP ) and other antibacterial drugs , HIPREX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Each yellow capsule - shaped tablet contains 1 g Methenamine Hippurate which is the Hippuric Acid Salt of Methenamine ( hexamethylene tetramine ) .
The tablet also contains inactive ingredients .
FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine , seePRECAUTIONS ) , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , and Saccharin Sodium .
ACTIONS Microbiology : HIPREX ( methenamine hippurate tablets USP ) has antibacterial activity because the methenamine component is hydrolyzed to formaldehyde in acid urine .
Hippuric acid , the other component , has some antibacterial activity and also acts to keep the urine acid .
The drug is generally active against E . coli , enterococci and staphylococci .
Enterobacter aerogenes is generally resistant .
The urine must be kept sufficiently acid for urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and Pseudomonas to be inhibited .
Human Pharmacology : Within 1 / 2 hour after ingestion of a single 1 - gram dose of HIPREX , antibacterial activity is demonstrable in the urine .
Urine has continuous antibacterial activity when HIPREX is administered at the recommended dosage schedule of 1 gram twice daily .
Over 90 % of methenamine moiety is excreted in the urine within 24 hours after administration of a single 1 - gram dose .
Similarly , the hippurate moiety is rapidly absorbed and excreted , and it reaches the urine by both tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
This action may be important in older patients or in those with some degree of renal impairment .
INDICATIONS HIPREX is indicated for prophylactic or suppressive treatment of frequently recurring urinary tract infections when long - term therapy is considered necessary .
This drug should only be used after eradication of the infection by other appropriate antimicrobial agents .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of HIPREX and other antibacterial drugs , HIPREX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS HIPREX ( methenamine hippurate tablets USP ) is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe hepatic insufficiency , or severe dehydration .
Methenamine preparations should not be given to patients taking sulfonamides because some sulfonamides may form an insoluble precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine .
WARNING Large doses of methenamine ( 8 grams daily for 3 to 4 weeks ) have caused bladder irritation , painful and frequent micturition , albuminuria , and gross hematuria .
PRECAUTIONS Prescribing HIPREX in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
1 .
Care should be taken to maintain an acid pH of the urine , especially when treating infections due to urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and strains of Pseudomonas .
2 .
In a few instances in one study , the serum transaminase levels were slightly elevated during treatment but returned to normal while the patients were still taking HIPREX .
Because of this report , it is recommended that liver function studies be performed periodically on patients taking the drug , especially those with liver dysfunction .
3 .
Use in Pregnancy : In early pregnancy the safe use of HIPREX is not established .
In the last trimester , safety is suggested , but not definitely proved .
No adverse effects on the fetus were seen in studies in pregnant rats and rabbits .
HIPREX taken during pregnancy can interfere with laboratory tests of urine estriol ( resulting in unmeasurably low values ) when acid hydrolysis is used in the laboratory procedure .
This interference is due to the presence in the urine of methenamine and / or formaldehyde .
Enzymatic hydrolysis , in place of acid hydrolysis , will circumvent this problem .
4 .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) , which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of HIPREX did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
HIPREX is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency and severe hepatic insufficiency ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including HIPREX should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When HIPREX is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by HIPREX or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Minor adverse reactions have been reported in less than 3 . 5 % of patients treated .
These reactions have included nausea , upset stomach , dysuria , and rash .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC at 1 - 866 - 982 - 5438 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 tablet ( 1 . 0 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age .
1 / 2 to 1 tablet ( 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age .
Since the antibacterial activity of HIPREX is greater in acid urine , restriction of alkalinizing foods and medications is desirable .
If necessary , as indicated by urinary pH and clinical response , supplemental acidification of the urine should be instituted .
The efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 - gram scored , capsule - shaped yellow tablets debossed W 1037 in bottles of 100 ( NDC 30698 - 477 - 01 ) .
Store at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted to 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in well - closed , light - resistant container with child - resistant closure .
Manufactured for and Distributed by : Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 info @ validuspharma . com www . validuspharma . com 1 - 866 - 982 - 5438 Product of India © 2021 Validus Pharmaceuticals LLC 60029 - 03 July 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 30698 - 477 - 01 Hiprex ® ( methenamine hippurate Tablets USP ) 1 gram 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
