ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE PHOSPHATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION ( CPD ) Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
Sterilized by steam .
Rx only .
This product is free of natural rubber latex .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For collection of up to 210 ml of umbilical cord blood .
Use aseptic technique .
Sterile Exterior Contents inside overwrap pouch , within the foil envelope , are sterile and acceptable for use in a sterile field if pouch is unopened and undamaged ; visual inspection to confirm the integrity of overwrap pouch should be performed .
WARNINGS Do not irradiate collected cord blood or components .
Making multiple punctures of the umbilical cord to increase collection volume may increase the risk of contamination .
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Do not use if the package is damaged or seal is incomplete .
Use only if solution is clear .
Sealing should be done in a manner that avoids fluid splatter .
Always dispose of blood - contaminated products in a manner consistent with established BIOHAZARD safety procedures .
HOW SUPPLIED The Collection Unit inside the overwrap pouch , within the foil envelope , are sterile and acceptable for use in a sterile field if pouch is unopened and undamaged .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Medsep Corporation , A Subsidiary of Pall Corp . , Covina , CA 91722 , USA Visit us at www . pall . com / medical For Pall customer service , call : 1 . 800 . 645 . 6578 DonorCare is a registered trademark of ITL Corporation , Canberra , Australia .
Produced under license from ThermoGenesis Corp .
Instructions for Use 1 .
Ensure DonorCare ® Needle Guard ( DCNG ) is positioned on the tubing between the needle hub and Pinch Clamp .
Engage Pinch Clamp .
Ensure tethered cap is placed securely on the air vent .
2 .
Using aseptic technique , insert needle into umbilical vein , disengage Pinch Clamp to collect cord blood , mixing frequently , according to standard procedures .
3 .
Upon completion of collection , engage Pinch Clamp then withdraw needle from umbilical vein .
Slide the DCNG midway over the needle hub .
While holding the sides of DCNG near front , grasp tubing and pull smoothly , pulling needle into the DCNG until it locks into place .
Confirm that needle is locked by listening for the second click as the needle is drawn into the DCNG .
Ensure that tubing cannot be pulled through DCNG .
4 .
Place the bag on a work surface .
While holding the tubing above the bag , open the tethered cap on the air vent .
Allow the blood to drain from the tubing into the bag .
5 .
When the tubing has been drained , hold tubing vertical and seal tubing directly below the Y - piece with air vent .
6 .
Detach and discard needle , DCNG , Pinch Clamp , Air Vent and tubing according to standard procedures .
7 .
Determine amount of anticoagulated blood collected .
If required , add sedimenting agent to CPD anticoagulated blood through Sample Port using a syringe according to standard procedures .
8 .
Mix well .
Take care to strip and mix any blood in tubing .
9 .
Load bag into centrifuge cup .
It is suggested that a means of support is used to prevent bag from collapsing and to reduce wrinkles .
10 .
Centrifuge according to standard procedures to obtain mononuclear cell - rich plasma .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BAG LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] HPC , Cord Blood ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE PHOSPHATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION 35 ml Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution for collection of up to 210 ml of umbilical cord blood .
Each 35 ml of CPD solution contains 0 . 921 g sodium citrate ( dihydrate ) , USP ; 0 . 893 g dextrose ( monohydrate ) , USP ; 0 . 114 g citric acid ( monohydrate ) , USP ; and 0 . 078 g monobasic sodium phosphate ( monohydrate ) , USP .
Use only if solution is clear .
Warning : This product may transmit infectious agents .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic fluid path .
Do not irradiate .
Rx only .
Code 791 - 08 Issued August 2010 , 147791082 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
