* Potency expressed as albuterol equivalent to 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg albuterol sulfate .
DESCRIPTION Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is a sterile , clear , colorless solution of the sulfate salt of racemic albuterol , albuterol sulfate .
Albuterol sulfate is a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The chemical name for albuterol sulfate is α1 - [ ( tert - Butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , and its established chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 . 7 and the empirical formula is ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
Albuterol sulfate is a white crystalline powder , soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
The World Health Organization ’ s recommended name for albuterol is salbutamol .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is supplied in two strengths in unit - dose vials .
Each unit - dose vial contains either 0 . 75 mg of albuterol sulfate ( equivalent to 0 . 021 % or 0 . 63 mg of albuterol ) or 1 . 5 mg of albuterol sulfate ( equivalent to 0 . 042 % or 1 . 25 mg of albuterol ) with sodium chloride and sulfuric acid in a 3 mL isotonic , sterile , aqueous solution .
Sodium chloride is added to adjust isotonicity of the solution and sulfuric acid is added to adjust pH of the solution to between 3 and 5 ( see HOW SUPPLIED ) .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution does not require dilution prior to administration by nebulization .
For albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , like all other nebulized treatments , the amount delivered to the lungs will depend on patient factors , the jet nebulizer utilized , and compressor performance .
Using the Pari LC Plus ™ nebulizer ( with face mask or mouthpiece ) connected to a Pari PRONEB ™ compressor , under in vitro conditions , the mean delivered dose from the mouth piece ( % nominal dose ) was approximately 43 % of albuterol ( 0 . 042 % or 1 . 25 mg strength ) and 39 % of albuterol ( 0 . 021 % or 0 . 63 mg strength ) at a mean flow rate of 3 . 6 L / min .
The mean nebulization time was 15 minutes or less .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be administered from a jet nebulizer at an adequate flow rate , via a mouthpiece or face mask ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The prime action of beta - adrenergic drugs is to stimulate adenyl cyclase , the enzyme which catalyzes the formation of cyclic - 3 ' , - 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) from adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
The cyclic AMP thus formed mediates the cellular responses .
In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , recent data indicate that 10 % to 50 % of the beta - receptors in the human heart may be beta2 - receptors .
The precise function of these receptors , however , is not yet established .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients by any route of administration because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines nor for catechol - O - methyl transferase .
Pharmacokinetics Studies in asthmatic patients have shown that less than 20 % of a single albuterol dose was absorbed following either intermittent positive - pressure breathing ( IPPB ) or nebulizer administration ; the remaining amount was recovered from the nebulizer and apparatus , and expired air .
Most of the absorbed dose was recovered in urine collected during the 24 hours after drug administration .
Following oral administration of 4 mg albuterol , the elimination half - life was five to six hours .
Following a 3 mg dose of nebulized albuterol in adults , the mean maximum albuterol plasma level at 0 . 5 hours was 2 . 1 ng / mL ( range , 1 . 4 to 3 . 2 ng / mL ) .
The pharmacokinetics of albuterol following administration of 0 . 63 mg ( 0 . 021 % ) or 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) albuterol sulfate inhalation solution by nebulization have not been determined in children 2 to 12 years old .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY & OR TOXICOLOGY Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those found in whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution was evaluated in a 4 - week , multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study in 349 children 6 to 12 years of age with mild - to - moderate asthma ( mean baseline FEV1 60 % to 70 % of predicted ) .
Approximately half of the patients were also receiving inhaled corticosteroids .
Patients were randomized to receive albuterol sulfate inhalation solution 0 . 63 mg ( 0 . 021 % ) , albuterol sulfate inhalation solution 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) , or placebo three times a day administered via a Pari LC Plus ™ nebulizer and a Pari PRONEB ™ compressor .
Racemic albuterol , delivered by a chlorofluorocarbon ( CFC ) metered dose inhaler ( MDI ) or nebulized , was used on an as - needed basis as the rescue medication .
Efficacy , as measured by the mean percent change from baseline in the area under the 6 - hour curve for FEV1 , was demonstrated for both active treatment regimens ( n = 112 [ 1 . 25 mg or 0 . 042 % group ] and n = 110 [ 0 . 63 mg or 0 . 021 % group ] ) compared with placebo ( n = 110 ) on day 1 and day 28 .
Figures 1 and 2 illustrate the mean percentage change from pre - dose FEV1 on day 1 and day 28 , respectively .
The mean baseline FEV1 for all patients was 1 . 49 L . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The onset of a 15 % increase in FEV1 over baseline for both doses of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution was seen at 30 minutes ( the first post - dose assessment ) .
The mean time to peak effect was approximately 30 to 60 minutes for both doses on day 1 and after 4 weeks of treatment .
The mean duration of effect , as measured by a > 15 % increase from baseline in FEV1 , was approximately 2 . 5 hours for both doses on day 1 and approximately 2 hours for both doses after 4 weeks of treatment .
In some patients , the duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 2 to 12 years of age with asthma ( reversible obstructive airway disease ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS PARADOXICAL BRONCHOSPASM As with other inhaled beta - adrenergic agonists , albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life - threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be noted that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister or vial .
USE OF ANTI - INFLAMMATORY AGENTS The use of beta - adrenergic bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents ( e . g . , corticosteroids ) .
DETERIORATION OF ASTHMA Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration of the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment ( e . g . , corticosteroids ) .
Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs and with the home use of nebulizers .
It is , therefore , essential that the physician instruct the patient in the need for further evaluation , if his / her asthma becomes worse .
CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon for albuterol sulfate inhalation solution at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T - wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , like all other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
IMMEDIATE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , and oropharyngeal edema .
PRECAUTIONS General Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate pre - existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , inhaled and intravenous albuterol may produce a significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring potassium supplementation .
Information for Patients The action of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution may last up to six hours , and therefore it should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of medication without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , you should seek medical attention immediately .
All asthma medication should only be used under the supervision and direction of a physician .
Common effects with medications such as albuterol sulfate inhalation solution include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about the use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
Effective and safe use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution includes an understanding of the way it should be administered .
If the solution in the vial changes color or becomes cloudy , you should not use it .
The drug compatibility ( physical and chemical ) , clinical efficacy , and safety of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer , have not been established .
See illustrated Patient ’ s Instructions for Use .
Drug Interactions Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators or epinephrine should not be used concomitantly with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , since the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Beta - receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances ( e . g . , prophylaxis after myocardial infarction ) , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers should be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non - potassium sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown , caution is advised in the co - administration of beta - agonists with non - potassium sparing diuretics .
Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 mg / kg ( approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for albuterol sulfate inhalation solution on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study , this effect was blocked by the co - administration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 140 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 20 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses of albuterol sulfate up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 30 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Albuterol has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice given albuterol subcutaneously showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) and cleft palate formation in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately equal to the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation when administered subcutaneously at a dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate formation also occurred in 23 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with 2 . 5 mg / kg isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
A reproduction study in Stride rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at 50 mg / kg ( approximately 60 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabelled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material was transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the use of albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
Albuterol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
Because no consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Labor and Delivery Oral albuterol has been shown to delay pre - term labor in some reports .
There are presently no well - controlled studies that demonstrate that it will stop pre - term labor or prevent labor at term .
Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Albuterol has not been approved for the management of pre - term labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including pulmonary edema , have been reported following administration of albuterol to women in labor .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in some animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) and 0 . 63 mg ( 0 . 021 % ) have been established in pediatric patients between the ages of 2 and 12 years .
The use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution in children age 6 to 12 years and published reports of albuterol sulfate trials in pediatric patients 3 years of age and older .
The safety and effectiveness of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution in children below 2 years of age have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse events reported in > 1 % of patients receiving albuterol sulfate inhalation solution and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo in a four - week double - blind study are listed in the following table .
Table 1 : Adverse Events with an Incidence of > 1 % of Patients Receiving Albuterol Sulfate and Greater than Placebo ( expressed as % of treatment group ) 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) Albuterol Sulfate ( n = 115 ) 0 . 63 mg ( 0 . 021 % ) Albuterol Sulfate ( n = 117 ) Placebo ( n = 117 ) Asthma Exacerbation 13 11 . 1 8 . 5 Otitis Media 4 . 3 0 . 9 0 Allergic Reaction 0 . 9 3 . 4 1 . 7 Gastroenteritis 0 . 9 3 . 4 0 . 9 Cold Symptoms 0 3 . 4 1 . 7 Flu Syndrome 2 . 6 2 . 6 1 . 7 Lymphadenopathy 2 . 6 0 . 9 1 . 7 Skin / Appendage Infection 1 . 7 0 0 Urticaria 1 . 7 0 . 9 0 Migraine 0 . 9 1 . 7 0 Chest Pain 0 . 9 1 . 7 0 Bronchitis 0 . 9 1 . 7 0 . 9 Nausea 1 . 7 0 . 9 0 . 9 There was one case of ST segment depression in the 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) albuterol sulfate inhalation solution treatment group .
No clinically relevant laboratory abnormalities related to albuterol sulfate inhalation solution administration were seen in this study .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of symptoms such as seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , insomnia , and exaggeration of the pharmacological effects listed in ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic aerosol medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 580 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mature rats and small young rats is approximately 450 mg / kg and 2000 mg / kg , respectively ( approximately 260 and 1200 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose of albuterol sulfate on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dosage for patients 2 to 12 years of age is 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) or 0 . 63 mg ( 0 . 021 % ) of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution administered 3 or 4 times daily , as needed , by nebulization .
More frequent administration is not recommended .
To administer 1 . 25 mg or 0 . 63 mg of albuterol , use the entire contents of one unit - dose vial ( 3 mL of 0 . 042 % [ 1 . 25 mg ] or 3 mL of 0 . 021 % [ 0 . 63 mg ] inhalation solution ) by nebulization .
Adjust nebulizer flow rate to deliver albuterol sulfate inhalation solution over 5 to 15 minutes .
The use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm .
During this time most patients gain optimum benefit from regular use of the inhalation solution .
Patients 6 to 12 years of age with more severe asthma ( baseline FEV1 less than 60 % predicted ) , weight > 40 kg , or patients 11 to 12 years of age may achieve a better initial response with the 1 . 25 mg dose .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution has not been studied in the setting of acute attacks of bronchospasm .
A 2 . 5 mg dose of albuterol provided by a higher concentration product ( 2 . 5 mg albuterol per 3 mL ) may be more appropriate for treating acute exacerbations , particularly in children 6 years old and above .
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual relief , medical advice should be sought immediately , as this is often a sign of seriously worsening asthma which would require reassessment of therapy .
The drug compatibility ( physical and chemical ) , clinical efficacy and safety of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established .
The safety and efficacy of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution have been established in clinical trials when administered using the Pari LC Plus ™ nebulizer and Pari PRONEB ™ compressor .
The safety and efficacy of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution when administered with other nebulizer systems have not been established .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be administered via jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with adequate air flow , equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask .
HOW SUPPLIED Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is supplied as a prediluted 3 mL , clear , colorless , sterile , preservative - free , aqueous solution in 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 042 % ) of albuterol ( equivalent to 1 . 5 mg of albuterol sulfate in 3 mL ) in unit - dose low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) vials .
Each unit - dose LDPE vial is protected in a foil - pouch , and each foil pouch contains 1 unit - dose LDPE vial .
Each strength of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is available in a shelf carton containing multiple foil pouches .
Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution , 0 . 042 % ( 1 . 25 mg / 3 mL ) ( potency expressed as albuterol equivalent to 1 . 5 mg albuterol sulfate per 3 mL ) in unit - dose vials and is available in the following packaging configurations : NDC 54868 - 5709 - 0 30 foil pouches , each containing 1 vial , total 30 vials per carton Storage and Handling Store between 2 ° C and 25 ° C ( 36 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light and excessive heat .
Store unit - dose vials in protective foil pouch at all times .
Once removed from the foil pouch , use vial within one week .
Discard the vial if the solution is not colorless .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Rx Only Manufactured By : Nephron Pharmaceuticals Corporation Orlando , FL 32811 For Customer Service , call 1 - 800 - 443 - 4313 .
Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient Package Insert Read this patient information completely every time your prescription is filled as information may have changed .
Keep these instructions with your medication , as you may want to read them again .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should only be used under the direction of a physician .
Your physician and pharmacist have more information about albuterol sulfate inhalation solution and the condition for which it has been prescribed .
Contact them if you have additional questions .
STORING YOUR MEDICINE Store albuterol sulfate inhalation solution between 2 ° C and 25 ° C ( 36 ° F and 77 ° F ) .
Vials should be protected from light before use , therefore , keep unused vials in the foil pouch .
Once removed from the foil pouch , use the vial within one week .
Discard the vial if the solution is not colorless .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Do not use after the expiration date printed on the vial .
DOSE Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is supplied as a single - dose , ready - to - use vial containing 3 mL of solution .
No mixing or dilution is needed .
Use one new vial with each nebulizer treatment .
FOR USE IN CHILDREN AGES 2 TO 12 .
See accompanying prescribing information .
USE ONLY AS DIRECTED BY YOUR PHYSICIAN .
DO NOT EXCEED RECOMMENDED DOSAGE .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE • Remove one vial from the foil pouch .
• Twist the cap completely off the vial and squeeze the contents into the nebulizer reservoir ( Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Connect the nebulizer to the mouthpiece or face mask ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Connect the nebulizer to the compressor • Sit in a comfortable , upright position ; place the mouthpiece in your mouth ( Figure 3 ) or put on the face mask ( Figure 4 ) ; and turn on the compressor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Breathe as calmly , deeply and evenly as possible through your mouth until no more mist is formed in the nebulizer chamber ( about 5 - 15 minutes ) .
At this point , the treatment is finished .
• Clean the nebulizer ( see manufacturer ' s instructions ) .
PATIENT INFORMATION Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution 0 . 021 % * ( 0 . 63 mg * / 3 mL ) and 0 . 042 % * ( 1 . 25 mg * / 3 mL ) * Potency expressed as albuterol , equivalent to 0 . 75 mg and 1 . 5 mg albuterol sulfate Prescription Only .
Read the patient information that comes with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution before using it and each time you get a refill for your child .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your child ’ s doctor about your child ’ s medical condition or treatment .
What is albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ?
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is a medicine that is used for the relief of bronchospasms caused by asthma in children ages 2 to 12 years .
Bronchospasm is the tightening and swelling of the muscles around the airways .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can help relax these airway muscles for up to 6 hours so that your child may breathe more easily .
Who should not use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ?
Do not give your child albuterol sulfate inhalation solution if he or she is allergic to any of its ingredients .
The active ingredient is albuterol sulfate .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
What should I tell my child ’ s doctor before giving albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ?
Tell your child ’ s doctor about all of your child ’ s medical conditions including if your child has : • Heart problems • High blood pressure • Seizures • A thyroid problem called hyperthyroidism • Diabetes Tell your child ’ s doctor about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution and some other medicines can affect each other and may cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your child ’ s doctor if your child is taking or using : • Any short - acting bronchodilator medicines ( sometimes called rescue inhalers ) • Epinephrine • Medicines called monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or tricyclic antidepressants or has stopped taking them in the past 2 weeks .
These medicines are usually used for mental problems .
• Medicines called beta - blockers ( used for heart problems and high blood pressure ) • Certain diuretic medicines ( water pills ) • Digoxin Know the medicines your child takes .
Keep a list of them and show it to your child ’ s doctor and pharmacist each time your child gets a new medicine .
How should albuterol sulfate inhalation solution be given ?
Read the Patient ’ s Instructions for Use that comes with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
Ask your pharmacist for these instructions if they are not with your medicine .
Keep the instructions with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution because you may want to read them again .
• Give albuterol sulfate inhalation solution exactly as prescribed for your child .
Do not change your child ’ s dose or how often it is used without talking to your child ’ s doctor first .
• Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is breathed into the lungs .
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is used with a special breathing machine called a nebulizer .
Do not mix other medicines with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution in the nebulizer .
Do not use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution that is not clear and colorless .
• Call your child ’ s doctor or get emergency help right away if your child ’ s breathing is not helped or gets worse during treatment with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
• Call your child ’ s doctor right away if your child needs to use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution more often than prescribed .
• Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution has not been studied for treating acute attacks of bronchospasm ( rescue use ) .
Your child may need a different medicine for rescue use .
• If you give your child too much albuterol sulfate inhalation solution , call your child ’ s doctor right away .
What are the side effects with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ?
Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution may cause the following serious side effects : • Worsening of the tightening and swelling of the muscles around your child ’ s airways ( bronchospasm ) .
This side effect can be life - threatening .
Call your child ’ s doctor or get emergency help right away if your child ’ s breathing is not helped or gets worse during treatment with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
• Serious and life - threatening allergic reactions .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction include : • Hives , rash • Swelling of your child ’ s face , eyelids , lips , tongue , or throat , and trouble swallowing • Worsening of your child ’ s breathing problems such as wheezing , chest tightness or shortness of breath • Shock ( loss of blood pressure and consciousness ) .
The most common side effects with albuterol sulfate inhalation solution include a fast or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shakiness , or nervousness .
How should albuterol sulfate inhalation solution be stored ?
• Store albuterol sulfate inhalation solution at room temperature , or 36 ° F to 77 ° F ( 2 ° C to 25 ° C ) in its tightly closed container .
• Protect vials from light before use .
Therefore , keep unused vials in the foil pouch or carton .
Once removed from the foil pouch , use vial ( s ) within one week .
• Do not use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution after the expiration date printed on the vial .
• Do not use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution that is not clear and colorless .
• Safely , discard albuterol sulfate inhalation solution that is out - of - date or no longer needed .
• Keep albuterol sulfate inhalation solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about albuterol sulfate inhalation solution Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient information leaflets .
Do not use albuterol sulfate inhalation solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give albuterol sulfate inhalation solution to other people , even if they have the same symptoms your child has .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about albuterol sulfate inhalation solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your child ’ s doctor .
You can ask your child ’ s doctor or pharmacist for information about albuterol sulfate inhalation solution that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in albuterol sulfate inhalation solution ?
Active Ingredient : albuterol sulfate Inactive Ingredients : sodium chloride and sulfuric acid Rx Only Manufactured By : Nephron Pharmaceuticals Corporation Orlando , FL 32811 For Customer Service , call 1 - 800 - 443 - 4313 .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Principal Display – Carton ( 1 . 25 * mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
