DESCRIPTION The DentiPatch ® system contains a local anesthetic agent to be applied topically to the oral cavity .
See INDICATIONS for specific uses .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of lidocaine is C14H22N2O .
The molecular weight is 234 . 34 .
Each 2 cm2 patch contains lidocaine base as the active ingredient in the amount of 46 . 1 mg .
Non - active ingredients include : karaya gum , glycerin , dipropylene glycol , lecithin , propylene glycol , aspartame , spearmint flavor , polyester film laminate and polyester - rayon fabric .
Each unit is sealed in a paper polyethylene - foil pouch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of action : The DentiPatch ® system is applied to the buccal mucosa to provide topical anesthesia by releasing lidocaine .
Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Onset and duration of action : The DentiPatch ® system acts on intact mucous membranes to produce local anesthesia .
DentiPatch ® ( Lidocaine Transoral Delivery System ) Anesthesia occurs usually within 2 . 5 minutes of application , is present for the duration of a 15 minute application period , and persists for approximately 30 minutes following removal .
Hemodynamics : Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Absorption While systemic availability is not an objective when lidocaine is administered for topical anesthesia , limited absorption occurs following application of the patches to the buccal mucosa .
The rate of absorption and percentage of dose absorbed depends upon several variables , including the concentration and total dose administered , the duration of exposure and the vascularity of the tissues at the site of application .
Although the total content of lidocaine base contained in each 2 cm2 system is 46 . 1 mg , the total amount of drug absorbed during 15 minutes of application is limited as drug delivery is confined to a fixed surface area .
Corresponding blood levels of lidocaine following application are less than 0 . 1 μg / ml .
Assuming the toxic range of lidocaine is approximately 5 μg / ml , the maximum plasma concentration achieved from this patch is , therefore , approximately 1 / 100 th of this value .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The figure shows the mean lidocaine plasma concentration following application of the 46 . 1 mg patch for 15 minutes to a group of normal male volunteers .
In this study , blood levels of lidocaine were compared following application of the patch and 5 % Xylocaine ® ointment .
The maximum plasma concentration following the 46 . 1 mg patch was approximately 1 / 7 of those achieved by the ointment .
Another study compared the lidocaine plasma levels following applications of the patch , a 50 mg film of 5 % topical ointment and an intravenous control in a cross - over design .
The maximum plasma concentration following the 46 . 1 mg patch was approximately 1 / 5 of that achieved from the intravenous dose .
The relevant mean pharmacokinetic parameters from this study are summarized in the table below .
In addition , the table also indicates the range of AUC ' s obtained in two independent studies .
MEAN ( ± SD ) PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS OBTAINED FOLLOWING APPLICATION OF THE DENTIPATCH ® SYSTEM FOR 15 MINUTESPHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS Cmax = Maximum observed plasma concentration .
Tmax = Time to maximum plasma concentration .
Apparent dose = Calculated dose ( estimated from the AUC0 - α values and the known IV dose ) .
t1 / 2 = Apparent terminal elimination half - life .
Lidocaine content ( mg ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( min ) Apparent Dose ( mg ) t1 / 2 min AUC0 - α ( ng • min / mL ) Study 3005 Study 3006 46 . 1 16 . 5 ( ± 7 . 9 ) 28 . 6 ( ± 12 . 9 ) 1 . 55 ( ± 0 . 77 ) 102 ( ± 25 ) 2110 ( ± 930 ) 3679 ( ± 1432 ) The apparent dose of lidocaine averaged 1 . 55 ( ± 0 . 77 ) mg from the 46 . 1 mg dosage .
This compares to an apparent dose of 3 . 77 ( ± 2 . 71 ) mg from the 5 % topical ointment and 4 . 79 ( ± 0 . 79 ) mg from the intravenous drug .
In this study , the half - life of elimination of lidocaine following the patch was approximately 2 hours compared to a mean half - life of 112 ( ± 20 ) minutes following the IV drug .
Metabolism and Excretion Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidney .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation ( the hepatic ratio for lidocaine has been reported between 62 % and 81 % in man ) .
Sequential oxidative N - dealkylation of lidocaine by the cytochrome P - 450 system in hepatic microsomes produce two major metabolites , mono - ethylglyciniexylidide ( MEGX ) and glycine xylidide ( GX ) , both of which have pharma - cologic activity .
Greater than 98 % of an administered lidocaine dose can be recovered in the urine as metabolites and parent compound .
Approximately 2 % of an administered dose is excreted as intact drug in the urine over 24 hours .
The primary metabolite found in the urine was 4 - hydroxy 2 , 6 - xylidine , which comprised 73 % of the dose in man following an oral dose of 3 . 0 mg / kg , MEGX and GX are found in small quantities : 4 . 0 % and 2 . 5 % , respectively .
Other metabolic products recovered in the urine in amounts of less than 1 . 0 % of an administered dose include 3 - hydroxylidocaine , 3 - hydroxyMEGX , and 2 . 6 - xylidine .
The metabolite 2 , 6 - xylidine has unknown pharmacologic activity but has been demonstrated to be carcinogenic in rats .
( See Carcinogenesis subsection of PRECAUTIONS ) .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL .
The extent of lidocaine protein binding is variable and is dependent upon the method of sample collection , lidocaine concentration , pH of sample and binding technique utilized .
Under controlled conditions and using equilibrium dialysis techniques , the percentage of unbound lidocaine in serum and plasma has been reported to range from 21 % to 39 % ( mean 28 - 30 % ) .
The major binding site of lidocaine in plasma is alpha , - 1 acid glycoprotein .
Special Populations Geriatric No special studies have been conducted in this age group .
Pediatric No special studies have been conducted in the pediatric age group .
Gender No significant differences in absorption , etc . have been found in males and females .
In a group of 30 volunteers ( 16 female , 14 male ) receiving the 46 . 1 mg patch , the observed maximum plasma concentrations were 27 . 2 ( ± 15 . 2 ) ng / mL at 45 ( ± 12 . 5 ) minutes following application .
Mean maximum concentrations were 31 . 5 ( ± 17 . 4 ) ng / mL in females and 22 . 2 ( ± 10 . 6 ) ng / mL in males .
Race No specific studies were conducted comparing the pharmacokinetics in different races .
Renal Insufficiency Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Hepatic Insufficiency Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Drug - Drug Interactions Lidocaine is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 - 7 and 2D6 .
Inhibitors of these enzymes by H2 antagonists , antibiotics or some antiepileptics may elevate systemic lidocaine levels resulting in a prolonged effect .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL STUDIES The DentiPatch ® system was studied in 275 volunteers who underwent needle insertion during four clinical studies .
Application of the 46 . 1 mg patch for 15 minutes to the maxillary mucosae provided significantly more buccal anesthesia than a corresponding placebo at 5 , 10 , and 15 minutes .
Similar findings were also observed following application of the patch to placement sites on both the maxillary and mandibular buccal mucosae .
In one large , multi - center trial consisting of 100 subjects , differences in responsiveness to the 46 . 1 mg patch compared to placebo were assessed following application of the patches for 15 - minute periods to each of these placement sites .
Assessments were made at 2 . 5 , 5 , 10 , and 15 minutes during application and again at 45 minutes .
For the mandibular placement sites , statistically significant decreases in pain scores from baseline were observed at 2 . 5 , 5 , 10 , 15 , and 45 minutes post - application .
For each time point , the decrease in pain score for the 46 . 1 mg lidocaine group was statistically significantly greater than placebo .
For the maxillary placement sites , statistically significant decreases in the pain scores were observed at 5 , 10 , 15 , and 45 minutes for the 46 . 1 mg group , but was not statistically significantly different from placebo at 2 . 5 minutes .
The mean change in visual analog scores ( VAS ) from baseline at these two sites for the 46 . 1 mg group and placebo are shown for each time point in the figures below .
Mean Change In VAS Scores [ MULTIMEDIA ] The mean plasma concentrations of lidocaine which were observed following application of the active dosage at these time points showed little difference between mandibular and maxillary placement sites .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE The DentiPatch ® system is indicated for the production of mild topical anesthesia of the accessible mucous membranes of the mouth prior to superficial dental procedures .
It may also reduce the pain associated with injections of local anesthetic into the gingiva .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of the DentiPatch ® system .
WARNINGS IN ORDER TO MANAGE POSSIBLE ADVERSE REACTIONS , RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS MUST BE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE WHEN LOCAL ANESTHETIC AGENTS , SUCH AS LIDOCAINE , ARE ADMINISTERED TO MUCOUS MEMBRANES .
The DentiPatch ® system should be used with extreme caution if there is sepsis or extremely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
PRECAUTIONS General The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
Resuscitative equipment , oxygen , and other resuscitative drugs should be available for immediate use .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug or its metabolites .
Tolerance varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical status .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
The DentiPatch ® system should be used with caution in patients with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Information for patients Use of the DentiPatch ® system is frequently associated with mild local redness and infrequently with the development over a day or so of more severe local reactions .
While these reactions are expected to resolve spontaneously , the concerned patient should be encouraged to report them to the practitioner .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Carcinogenesis : Long term study in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of lidocaine has not been conducted .
A two - year oral toxicity study of 2 , 6 - xylidine , a metabolite of lidocaine , conducted in both male and female rats , has shown that daily doses of 900 mg / m2 ( 150 mg / kg ) resulted in carcinomas and adenomas of the nasal cavity .
With daily doses of 300 mg / m2 ( 50 mg / kg ) , the increase in incidence of nasal carcinomas and / or adenomas in each sex of the rat were not statistically greater than the control group .
In the low dose group of 90 mg / m2 ( 15 mg / kg ) and control , no nasal tumors were observed .
A rhabdomyosarcoma , a rare tumor , was observed in the nasal cavity of both male and female rats at the high dose of 900 mg / m2 ( 150 mg / kg ) .
In addition , the compound caused subcutaneous fibromas and / or fibrosarcomas in both male and female rats and neoplastic nodules of the liver in the female rats with a significantly positive trend test ; pairwise comparisons using Fisher ' s Exact Test showed significance only at the high dose of 900 mg / m2 ( 150 mg / kg ) .
Mutagenesis : The mutagenic potential of lidocaine HCI has been tested in the Ames Salmonella / mammalian microsome test and by analysis of structural chromosome aberrations in human lymphocytes in vitro , and by the mouse micronucleus test in vivo .
There was no indication in these three tests of any mutagenic effects .
The mutagenicity of 2 , 6 - xylidine , a metabolite of lidocaine , has been studied in different tests with mixed results .
The compound was found to be weakly mutagenic in the Ames test only under metabolic activation conditions .
In addition , 2 , 6 - xylidine was observed to be mutagenic at the thymidine kinase locus , with or without activation , and induced chromosome aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges at concentrations at which the drug precipitated out of the solution ( 1 . 2 mg / mL ) .
No evidence of genotoxicity was found in the in vivo assays measuring unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes , chromosome damage in polychromatic erythrocytes or preferential killing of DNA repair - deficient bacteria in liver , lung , kidney , testes and blood extracts from mice .
However , covalent binding studies of DNA from liver and ethmoid turbinates in rats indicate that 2 , 6 - xylidine may be genotoxic under certain conditions in vivo .
Use in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Phenylketonurics Contains phenylalanine 0 . 62 mg per system .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions : During controlled clinical trials with this dosage form , the area of patch application was evaluated for oral irritation following removal .
In the majority of instances , no irritation was observed .
Minimal to moderate redness was reported , however , in fewer than 15 % of the applications of the patch and placebo .
General Adverse Events : In controlled clinical trials , the percentage of subjects reporting adverse events was similar in the two treatment groups consisting of the 46 . 1 mg and placebo patches .
Overall , the most frequently occurring adverse experiences irrespective of causality were taste perversion , stomatitis ( including erythema and other types of mucosal reactions ) , headache and gingivitis .
The incidence of drug - related ( definite , probably / highly probably ) events was low in both treatment groups , however .
Other adverse experiences reported following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are the most common reported .
Central nervous system : CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheaded - ness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption : Cardiovascular system : Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic : Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other ingredients in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . )
Management of local anesthetic emergencies : The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When the DentiPatch ® system is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
Isolate the procedure area with cotton rolls and use suction as appropriate .
Dry the tissue with air or gauze .
Remove the DentiPatch ® system from its packaging and peel off the clear protective liner .
Immediately apply the DentiPatch ® system using firm pressure .
Allow the patch to remain in place until the desired anesthetic effect is produced but not for longer than 15 minutes .
Experience in children is inadequate to recommend a pediatric dose at this time .
HOW SUPPLIED DentiPatch ® system ( 46 . 1 mg / unit ) - each 2 . 0 cm2 system contains 46 . 1 mg of lidocaine USP .
Dispenser carton of 50 systems NDC 57616 - 041 - 12 Do not store above 25 ° C . Keep out of the reach of children .
May 1999 Package Insert Noven Parmaceuticals , Inc . 100956 - 1 Manufactured by : Noven Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Miami , Florida 33186
