Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • ▪ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • ▪ temporarily relieves : • ▪ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • ▪ the intensity of coughing • ▪ the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • ▪ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided • ▪ do not use dosing cup with other products • ▪ mL = milliliter Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 5 mL – 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 2 . 5 mL – 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • ▪ each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • ▪ Tamper evident : do not use if printed inner seal under cap is torn or missing • ▪ store at room temperature • ▪ do not refrigerate • ▪ dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C red # 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton LEADER ™ NDC 70000 - 0131 - 1 Children ' s Mucus and Cough Relief Dextromethorphan HBr , 5 mg Guaifenesin , 100 mg Cherry Flavor AGES 4 - 12 YEARS Controls Cough Relieves Chest Congestion Breaks up Mucus COMPARE TO CHILDREN ’ S MUCINEX ® COUGH active ingredients 100 % Money Back Guarantee Dosing Cup included 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) • © CARDINAL HEALTH , the Cardinal Health LOGO , LEADER , and the Leader LOGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , owner of the registered trademark Children ’ s Mucinex ® Cough .
IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
• CARDINAL HEALTH ® DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Essential to Care ™ since 1979 All Leader Brand Products have a 100 % Money Back Guarantee Return to place of purchase if not satisfied [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
