WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used alone , or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs .
• • Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan , an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide , a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40 / 12 . 5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy .
Dose can be titrated up to 40 / 25 mg if necessary .
The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 20 / 12 . 5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose - limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide .
Dose can be titrated up to 40 / 25 mg if necessary .
Patients titrated to the individual components ( olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide ) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy , 40 / 12 . 5 mg ( 2 ) • • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy , 20 / 12 . 5 mg ( 2 ) • • Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks , as needed , to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are supplied as film - coated , non - scored tablets : • • 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg pink , round , debossed with “ S551 ” on one side and plain on the other side • • 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg pink , capsule - shaped , debossed with “ S552 ” on one side and plain on the other side • • 40 mg / 25 mg white , capsule - shaped , debossed with “ S553 ” on one side and plain on the other side Tablets : ( olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide ) 20 / 12 . 5 mg ; 40 / 12 . 5 mg ; 40 / 25 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated : • • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] • • In patients with anuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • • Anuria ( 4 ) • • Do not co - administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypotension : Correct volume - depletion prior to administration .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients ( 5 . 3 ) • • Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Acute angle - closure glaucoma ( 5 . 5 ) • • Sprue - like enteropathy has been reported .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in cases where no other etiology is found ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
If hypotension does occur , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
When electrolyte and fluid imbalances have been corrected , olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets usually can be continued without difficulty .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Monitor renal function periodically in these patients .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
5 . 5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain olmesartan , a drug that inhibits the renin - angiotensin system ( RAS ) .
Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Monitor calcium levels .
5 . 6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
5 . 7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
5 . 8 Sprue - Like Enteropathy Severe , chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation .
Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy .
If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan , exclude other etiologies .
Consider discontinuation of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in cases where no other etiology is identified .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are described elsewhere : • • Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Impaired Renal Function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Sprue - Like Enteropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) are nausea , hyperuricemia , dizziness , and upper respiratory infection ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide The concomitant use of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide was evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients .
Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated , with an incidence of adverse events similar to that of placebo .
Adverse reactions were generally mild , transient and not dependent on the dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide .
The rate of withdrawals for adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2 . 0 % ( 25 / 1243 ) on olmesartan medoxomil plus hydrochlorothiazide and 2 . 0 % ( 7 / 342 ) on placebo .
In a placebo - controlled , factorial clinical trial of olmesartan medoxomil ( 2 . 5 mg to 40 mg ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg to 25 mg ) , the following adverse reactions reported in Table 1 occurred in > 2 % of patients , and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in a Factorial Trial of Patients with Hypertension Olmesartan / HCTZ Olmesartan HCTZ Placebo ( N = 247 ) ( N = 125 ) ( N = 88 ) ( N = 42 ) ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) Nausea 3 2 1 0 Hyperuricemia 4 0 2 2 Dizziness 9 1 8 2 Upper Respiratory Infection 7 6 7 0 Other adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1 . 0 % , whether or not attributed to treatment , in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open - label trials are listed below .
Body as a Whole : chest pain , back pain , peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System : vertigo Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , dyspepsia , gastroenteritis , diarrhea Liver and Biliary System : SGOT increased , GGT increased , ALT increased Metabolic and Nutritional : creatine phosphokinase increased Musculoskeletal : arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia Respiratory System : coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders : rash Urinary System : hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2 / 1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide .
Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse reactions that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide are listed below : Body as a Whole : weakness Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions Metabolic : glycosuria , hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness Renal : renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Creatinine / blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) : Minor elevations in creatinine and BUN occurred in 1 . 7 % and 2 . 5 % respectively , of patients taking olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and 0 % and 0 % respectively , given placebo in controlled clinical trials .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Body as a Whole : Asthenia Gastrointestinal : Vomiting Metabolic : Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis Skin and Appendages : Alopecia , pruritus Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high - dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular ( CV ) risk in diabetic patients , but the overall data are not conclusive .
The randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind ROADMAP trial ( Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial , n = 4447 ) examined the use of olmesartan , 40 mg daily , vs . placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , normoalbuminuria , and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease .
The trial met its primary endpoint , delayed onset of microalbuminuria , but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) .
There was a finding of increased CV mortality ( adjudicated sudden cardiac death , fatal myocardial infarction , fatal stroke , revascularization death ) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group ( 15 olmesartan vs . 3 placebo , HR 4 . 9 , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] , 1 . 4 , 17 ) , but the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan ( HR 0 . 64 , 95 % CI 0 . 35 , 1 . 18 ) .
The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300 , 000 patient - years .
In the sub - group of diabetic patients receiving high - dose olmesartan ( 40 mg / d ) for > 6 months , there appeared to be an increased risk of death ( HR 2 . 0 , 95 % CI 1 . 1 , 3 . 8 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
In contrast , high - dose olmesartan use in non - diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death ( HR 0 . 46 , 95 % CI 0 . 24 , 0 . 86 ) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers .
No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months .
Overall , these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high - dose olmesartan in diabetic patients .
There are , however , concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk , notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non - diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 2 ) • • Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Reduced diuretic , natriuretic and antihypotensive effects ; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7 . 3 ) • • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 4 ) • • Colesevelam hydrochloride : Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7 . 5 ) • • Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7 . 6 ) • • Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients .
7 . 2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or hydrochlorothiazide .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists ( including olmesartan medoxomil ) may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Hydrochlorothiazide In some patients the administration of a NSAID can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , monitor blood pressure closely .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
7 . 5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan .
Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect .
Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 6 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Ion exchange resins : Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins ( e . g . , cholestyramine , colestipol ) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Corticosteroids , ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Nursing mothers : Avoid use while nursing ; discontinue either nursing or the drug ( 8 . 3 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity , and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intraamniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether olmesartan is excreted in human milk , but olmesartan is secreted at low concentration in the milk of lactating rats .
Thiazides appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and substituting for disordered renal function .
Safety and effectiveness of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant diseases or other drug therapy .
Olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Safety and effectiveness of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min ) have not been established .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild ( CrCl 60 - 90 mL / min ) or moderate ( CrCl 30 - 60 ) renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Olmesartan medoxomil No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild - to - severe liver disease .
Hydrochlorothiazide Minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease .
10 OVERDOSAGE Olmesartan medoxomil Limited data are available related to overdosage of olmesartan medoxomil in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could be encountered if parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation occurs .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be initiated .
The dialyzability of olmesartan is unknown .
No lethality was observed in acute toxicity studies in mice and rats given single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg olmesartan medoxomil .
The minimum lethal oral dose of olmesartan medoxomil in dogs was greater than 1500 mg / kg .
Hydrochlorothiazide The most common signs and symptoms of hydrochlorothiazide overdose observed in humans are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
11 DESCRIPTION Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist ( AT1 subtype ) , olmesartan medoxomil , and a thiazide diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) .
Olmesartan medoxomil is 2 , 3 - dihydroxy - 2 - butenyl 4 - ( 1 - hydroxy - 1 - methylethyl ) - 2 - propyl - 1 - [ p - ( o - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - ylphenyl ) benzyl ] imidazole - 5 - carboxylate , cyclic 2 , 3 - carbonate .
Its empirical formula is C29H30N6O6 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Olmesartan medoxomil is a white to light yellowish - white powder or crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 558 . 6 .
It is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzo - thiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 7 .
Hydrochlorothiazide is slightly soluble in water but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are available for oral administration in tablets containing 20 mg or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , USP , combined with 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP , or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil , USP , combined with 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
Inactive ingredients include : hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , titanium dioxide .
Red iron oxide , yellow iron oxide and black iron oxide are also added to the 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Olmesartan medoxomil Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Olmesartan blocks the vasoconstrictor effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in vascular smooth muscle .
Its action is , therefore , independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
An AT2 receptor is found also in many tissues , but this receptor is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Olmesartan has more than a 12 , 500 - fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and circulating angiotensin II levels do not overcome the effect of olmesartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so co - administration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is not fully understood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Olmesartan medoxomil Olmesartan medoxomil doses of 2 . 5 to 40 mg inhibit the pressor effects of angiotensin I infusion .
The duration of the inhibitory effect was related to dose , with doses of olmesartan medoxomil > 40 mg giving > 90 % inhibition at 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations of angiotensin I and angiotensin II and plasma renin activity ( PRA ) increase after single and repeated administration of olmesartan medoxomil to healthy subjects and hypertensive patients .
Repeated administration of up to 80 mg olmesartan medoxomil had minimal influence on aldosterone levels and no effect on serum potassium .
Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , non - depolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) : Increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant may occur .
Digitalis glycosides : Thiazide - induced hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may predispose to digoxin toxicity .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Olmesartan : Olmesartan medoxomil is completely bioactivated by ester hydrolysis to olmesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract .
The absolute bioavailability of olmesartan is approximately 26 % .
After oral administration , the peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of olmesartan is reached after 1 to 2 hours .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of olmesartan .
Olmesartan shows linear pharmacokinetics following single oral doses of up to 320 mg and multiple oral doses of up to 80 mg .
Steady - state levels of olmesartan are achieved within 3 to 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once - daily dosing .
Hydrochlorothiazide : The estimated absolute bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide after oral administration is about 70 % .
Peak plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations ( Cmax ) are reached within 2 to 5 hours after oral administration .
There is no clinically significant effect of food on the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide .
The pharmacokinetics of hydrochlorothiazide is dose proportional in the range of 12 . 5 to 75 mg .
Distribution Olmesartan : The volume of distribution of olmesartan is approximately 17 L . Olmesartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( 99 % ) and does not penetrate red blood cells .
The protein binding is constant at plasma olmesartan concentrations well above the range achieved with recommended doses .
In rats , olmesartan crossed the blood - brain barrier poorly , if at all .
Olmesartan passed across the placental barrier in rats and was distributed to the fetus .
Olmesartan was distributed to milk at low levels in rats .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide binds to albumin ( 40 to 70 % ) and distributes into erythrocytes .
Following oral administration , plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations decline bi - exponentially , with a mean distribution half - life of about 2 hours and an elimination half - life of about 10 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Metabolism Olmesartan : Olmesartan does not undergo further metabolism .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized .
Elimination Olmesartan : Olmesartan appears to be eliminated in a biphasic manner with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 13 hours .
Total plasma clearance of olmesartan is 1 . 3 L / h , with a renal clearance of 0 . 6 L / h .
Approximately 35 % to 50 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in urine while the remainder is eliminated in feces via the bile .
Hydrochlorothiazide : About 70 % of an orally administered dose of hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug .
Specific populations Olmesartan medoxomil Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan were studied in pediatric hypertensive patients aged 1 to16 years .
The clearance of olmesartan in pediatric patients was similar to that in adult patients when adjusted by the body weight .
Olmesartan pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age .
Geriatric : The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan were studied in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) .
Overall , maximum plasma concentrations of olmesartan were similar in young adults and the elderly .
Modest accumulation of olmesartan was observed in the elderly with repeated dosing ; AUCss , τ was 33 % higher in elderly patients , corresponding to an approximate 30 % reduction in CLR .
Gender : Minor differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in women compared to men .
AUC and Cmax were 10 - 15 % higher in women than in men .
Renal insufficiency : In patients with renal insufficiency , serum concentrations of olmesartan were elevated compared to subjects with normal renal function .
After repeated dosing , the AUC was approximately tripled in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 20 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan in patients undergoing hemodialysis has not been studied .
Hepatic insufficiency : Increases in AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax for olmesartan were observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those in matched controls , with an increase in AUC of about 60 % .
Hydrochlorothiazide Renal insufficiency : In a study in individuals with impaired renal function , the mean elimination half - life of hydrochlorothiazide doubled in individuals with mild / moderate renal impairment ( 30 < CrCl < 90 mL / min ) and tripled in severe renal impairment ( ≤ 30 mL / min ) , when compared to individuals with normal renal function ( CrCl > 90 mL / min ) .
Drug Interactions Olmesartan No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was co - administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers .
The bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil was not significantly altered by the co - administration of antacids [ Al ( OH ) 3 / Mg ( OH ) 2 ] .
Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes ; thus , interactions with drugs that inhibit , induce , or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected .
Bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam Concomitant administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 3750 mg colesevelam hydrochloride in healthy subjects resulted in 28 % reduction in Cmax and 39 % reduction in AUC of olmesartan .
Lesser effects , 4 % and 15 % reduction in Cmax and AUC respectively , were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide Drugs that alter gastrointestinal motility : The bioavailability of thiazide - type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents ( e . g . atropine , biperiden ) , apparently due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate .
Conversely , pro - kinetic drugs may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide diuretics .
Cholestyramine : In a dedicated drug interaction study , administration of cholestyramine 2 h before hydrochlorothiazide resulted in a 70 % reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
Further , administration of hydrochlorothiazide 2 h before cholestyramine , resulted in 35 % reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
Lithium : Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase the risk of lithium toxicity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Antineoplastic agents ( e . g . cyclophosphamide , methotrexate ) : Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may reduce renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide No carcinogenicity studies with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide have been conducted .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in a ratio of 20 : 12 . 5 were negative in the Salmonella - Escherichia coli / mammalian microsome reverse mutation test up to the maximum recommended plate concentration for the standard assays .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide were tested individually and in combination ratios of 40 : 12 . 5 , 20 : 12 . 5 and 10 : 12 . 5 , for clastogenic activity in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung ( CHL ) chromosomal aberration assay .
A positive response was seen for each component and combination ratio .
However , no synergism in clastogenic activity was detected between olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide at any combination ratio .
Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in a ratio of 20 : 12 . 5 , administered orally , tested negative in the in vivo mouse bone marrow erythrocyte micronucleus assay at administered doses of up to 3144 mg / kg .
No studies of impairment of fertility with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide have been conducted .
Olmesartan medoxomil Olmesartan medoxomil was not carcinogenic when administered by dietary administration to rats for up to 2 years .
The highest dose tested ( 2000 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m2 basis , about 480 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 mg / day .
Two carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice , a 6 - month gavage study in the p53 knockout mouse and a 6 - month dietary administration study in the Hras2 transgenic mouse , at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( about 120 times the MRHD ) , revealed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of olmesartan medoxomil .
Both olmesartan medoxomil and olmesartan tested negative in the in vitro Syrian hamster embryo cell transformation assay and showed no evidence of genetic toxicity in the Ames ( bacterial mutagenicity ) test .
However , both were shown to induce chromosomal aberrations in cultured cells in vitro ( Chinese hamster lung ) and both tested positive for thymidine kinase mutations in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Olmesartan medoxomil tested negative in vivo for mutations in the MutaMouse intestine and kidney , and for clastogenicity in mouse bone marrow ( micronucleus test ) at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg ( olmesartan not tested ) .
Fertility of rats was unaffected by administration of olmesartan medoxomil at dose levels as high as 1000 mg / kg / day ( 240 times the MRHD ) in a study in which dosing was begun 2 ( female ) or 9 ( male ) weeks prior to mating .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 and TA 1538 , or in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations .
It was also not genotoxic in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , or the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) assay , the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assay and the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
13 . 3 Developmental Toxicity Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide No teratogenic effects were observed when 1 . 6 : 1 combinations of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide were administered to pregnant mice at oral doses up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 122 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) or pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1625 mg / kg / day ( 280 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In rats , however , fetal body weights at 1625 mg / kg / day ( a toxic , sometimes lethal dose in the dams ) were significantly lower than control .
The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats , 162 . 5 mg / kg / day , is about 28 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil / 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide / day ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide In clinical trials 1230 patients were exposed to the combination of olmesartan medoxomil ( 2 . 5 mg to 40 mg ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg to 25 mg ) .
These trials included one placebo - controlled factorial trial in mild - moderate hypertensive patients ( n = 502 ) with combinations of olmesartan medoxomil ( 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg , or placebo ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg , 25 mg , or placebo ) .
The antihypertensive effect of the combination on trough blood pressure was related to the dose of each component ( see Table 2 ) .
Once - daily dosing with 20 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide , 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide or 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide produced mean placebo - adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough ( 24 hours post - dosing ) ranging from 17 / 8 to 24 / 14 mm Hg .
Table 2 : Placebo - Adjusted Reductions in Sitting Systolic / Diastolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) HCTZ Olmesartan Medoxomil 0 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 0 mg -- 7 / 5 12 / 5 13 / 7 12 . 5 mg 5 / 1 17 / 8 17 / 8 16 / 10 25 mg 14 / 5 19 / 11 22 / 11 24 / 14 The antihypertensive effect had onset within 1 week and was near maximal at 4 weeks .
The antihypertensive effect was independent of gender , but there were too few subjects to identify response differences based on race or age greater than or less than 65 years .
No appreciable changes in trough heart rate were observed with combination therapy .
There are no trials of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one drug pharmacologically similar to olmesartan medoxomil has demonstrated such benefits , and hydrochlorothiazide demonstrated reduction of cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension .
Olmesartan medoxomil The antihypertensive effects of olmesartan medoxomil have been demonstrated in seven placebo - controlled studies at doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 80 mg for 6 to 12 weeks , each showing statistically significant reductions in peak and trough blood pressure .
A total of 2693 patients ( 2145 olmesartan medoxomil ; 548 placebo ) with essential hypertension were studied .
Olmesartan medoxomil once daily ( QD ) lowered diastolic and systolic blood pressure .
The response was dose - related .
An olmesartan medoxomil dose of 20 mg daily produced a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 10 / 6 mm Hg and a dose of 40 mg daily produced a trough sitting BP reduction over placebo of about 12 / 7 mm Hg .
Olmesartan medoxomil doses greater than 40 mg had little additional effect .
The onset of the antihypertensive effect occurred within 1 week and was largely manifest after 2 weeks .
The blood pressure lowering effect was maintained throughout the 24 - hour period with olmesartan medoxomil once daily , with trough - to - peak ratios for systolic and diastolic response between 60 and 80 % .
The blood pressure lowering effect of olmesartan medoxomil , with and without hydrochlorothiazide , was maintained in patients treated for up to 1 year .
There was no evidence of tachyphylaxis during long - term treatment with olmesartan medoxomil or rebound effect following abrupt withdrawal of olmesartan medoxomil after 1 year of treatment .
The antihypertensive effect of olmesartan medoxomil was similar in men and women and in patients older and younger than 65 years .
The effect was smaller in black patients ( usually a low - renin population ) , as has been seen with other ACE inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , and beta - blockers .
Olmesartan medoxomil had an additional blood pressure lowering effect when added to hydrochlorothiazide .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are supplied as follows : Olm / HCTZ Shape Color Debossing Side 1 Side 2 20 / 12 . 5 mg Round Pink S551 plain 40 / 12 . 5 mg Capsule - shaped Pink S552 plain 40 / 25 mg Capsule - shaped White S553 plain Tablets are packaged as follows : NDC 43547 - xxx - xx 20 / 12 . 5 mg 40 / 12 . 5 mg 40 / 25 mg Bottle of 30 tablets 391 - 03 392 - 03 393 - 03 Bottle of 90 tablets 391 - 09 392 - 09 393 - 09 Bottle of 1000 tablets 391 - 11 392 - 11 393 - 11 Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Pregnancy : Advise female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Tell patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Symptomatic hypotension and syncope : Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and to report this symptom to a healthcare provider .
Inform patients that dehydration from inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , vomiting , or diarrhea may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure .
If syncope occurs advise patients , to contact their healthcare provider .
Potassium Supplements : Advise patients not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their healthcare provider .
Acute myopia and secondary angle - closure glaucoma : Advise patients to discontinue olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms of acute myopia or secondary angle - closure glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Revised : 04 / 2021 200420 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label - 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg - 90 tablets Rx only NDC 43547 - 391 - 09 Olmesartan Medoxomil and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Each tablet contains : Active ingredients : olmesartan medoxomil , USP , 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide , USP , 12 . 5 mg .
DOSAGE AND USE : SEE PACKAGE INSERT Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Rev : FEB 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label - 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg - 90 tablets Rx only NDC 43547 - 392 - 09 Olmesartan Medoxomil and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Each tablet contains : Active ingredients : olmesartan medoxomil , USP , 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide , USP , 12 . 5 mg .
DOSAGE AND USE : SEE PACKAGE INSERT Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Rev : FEB 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label - 40 mg / 25 mg - 90 tablets Rx only NDC 43547 - 393 - 09 Olmesartan Medoxomil and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Each tablet contains : Active ingredients : olmesartan medoxomil , USP , 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide , USP , 25 mg .
DOSAGE AND USE : SEE PACKAGE INSERT Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Rev : FEB 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
