FOR ORAL ADMINISTRATION Rx Only DESCRIPTION Lactulose is a synthetic disaccharide in solution form for oral administration .
Each 15 mL of Lactulose Solution contains : 10 g lactulose ( and less than 1 . 6 g galactose , less than 1 . 2 g lactose , and 1 . 2 g or less of other sugars ) .
Also contains FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , purified water , and flavoring .
Sodium hydroxide used to adjust pH . The pH range is 2 . 5 to 6 . 5 .
Lactulose is a colonic acidifier which promotes laxation .
The chemical name for lactulose is 4 - 0 - ß - D - galactopyranosyl - D - fructofuranose .
The molecular formula is C12H22O11 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight is 342 . 30 .
It is freely soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lactulose is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and no enzyme capable of hydrolysis of this disaccharide is present in human gastrointestinal tissue .
As a result , oral doses of lactulose solution reach the colon virtually unchanged .
In the colon , lactulose is broken down primarily to lactic acid , and also to small amounts of formic and acetic acids , by the action of colonic bacteria , which results in an increase in osmotic pressure and slight acidification of the colonic contents .
This in turn causes an increase in stool water content and softens the stool .
Since lactulose does not exert its effect until it reaches the colon , and since transit time through the colon may be slow , 24 to 48 hours may be required to produce the desired bowel movement .
Lactulose solution given orally to man and experimental animals resulted in only small amounts reaching the blood .
Urinary excretion has been determined to be 3 % or less and is essentially complete within 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of constipation .
In patients with a history of chronic constipation , lactulose solution therapy increases the number of bowel movements per day and the number of days on which bowel movements occur .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Since lactulose solution contains galactose ( less than 1 . 6 g / 15 mL ) , it is contraindicated in patients who require a low galactose diet .
WARNINGS A theoretical hazard may exist for patients being treated with lactulose solution who may be required to undergo electrocautery procedures during proctoscopy or colonoscopy .
Accumulation of H2 gas in significant concentration in the presence of an electrical spark may result in an explosive reaction .
Although this complication has not been reported with lactulose , patients on lactulose therapy undergoing such procedures should have a thorough bowel cleansing with a non - fermentable solution .
Insufflation of CO2 as an additional safeguard may be pursued but is considered to be a redundant measure .
PRECAUTIONS General Since lactulose solution contains galactose ( less than 1 . 6 g / 15 mL ) and lactose ( less than 1 . 2 g / 15 mL ) , it should be used with caution in diabetics .
Information for Patients In the event that an unusual diarrheal condition occurs , contact your physician .
Laboratory Tests Elderly , debilitated patients who receive lactulose solution for more than six months should have serum electrolytes ( potassium , chloride , carbon dioxide ) measured periodically .
Drug Interactions Results of preliminary studies in humans and rats suggest that nonabsorbable antacids given concurrently with lactulose may inhibit the desired lactulose - induced drop in colonic pH . Therefore , a possible lack of desired effect of treatment should be taken into consideration before such drugs are given concomitantly with lactulose solution .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no known human data on long - term potential for carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
There are no known animal data on long - term potential for mutagenicity .
Administration of lactulose solution in the diet of mice for 18 months in concentrations of 3 and 10 percent ( v / w ) did not produce any evidence of carcinogenicity .
In studies of mice , rats , and rabbits , doses of lactulose solution up to 6 or 12 mL / kg / day produced no deleterious effects in breeding , conception , or parturition .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 3 or 6 times the usual human oral dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to lactulose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lactulose solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Precise frequency data are not available .
Initial dosing may produce flatulence and intestinal cramps , which are usually transient .
Excessive dosage can lead to diarrhea with potential complications such as loss of fluids , hypokalemia , and hypernatremia .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lannett Company , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 834 - 0530 .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms There have been no reports of accidental overdosage .
In the event of overdosage , it is expected that diarrhea and abdominal cramps would be the major symptoms .
Medication should be terminated .
Oral LD50 The acute oral LD50 of the drug is 48 . 8 mL / kg in mice and greater than 30 mL / kg in rats .
Dialysis Dialysis data are not available for lactulose .
Its molecular similarity to sucrose , however , would suggest that it should be dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is 1 to 2 tablespoonfuls ( 15 to 30 mL , containing 10 g to 20 g of lactulose ) daily .
The dose may be increased to 60 mL daily if necessary .
Twenty - four to 48 hours may be required to produce a normal bowel movement .
Note : Some patients have found that lactulose solution may be more acceptable when mixed with fruit juice , water or milk .
HOW SUPPLIED Lactulose Solution USP 10 g / 15 mL is available as follows : NDC 0527 - 5125 - 68 : 8 fl oz ( 237 mL ) bottle NDC 0527 - 5125 - 70 : 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) bottle NDC 0527 - 5125 - 78 : 32 fl oz ( 946 mL ) bottle NDC 0527 - 5125 - 82 : 64 fl oz ( 1892 mL ) bottle Lactulose solution contains lactulose 667 mg / mL ( 10 g / 15 mL ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP ] Do not freeze .
Under recommended storage conditions , a normal darkening of color may occur .
Such darkening is characteristic of sugar solutions and does not affect therapeutic action .
Prolonged exposure to temperatures above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) or to direct light may cause extreme darkening and turbidity which may be pharmaceutically objectionable .
If this condition develops , do not use .
Prolonged exposure to freezing temperatures may cause change to a semi - solid , too viscous to pour .
Viscosity will return to normal upon warming to room temperature .
Keep tightly closed .
Dispense in original container or tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
To the Pharmacist : When ordering this product , include the product number ( or NDC ) in the description .
Distributed by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19136 L6868B Rev . 01 / 20 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 0527 - 5125 - 70 Lactulose Solution USP 10 g / 15 mL To the Pharmacist : When ordering this product , include the product number ( or NDC ) in the description .
Rx Only 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) Lannett [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
