DESCRIPTION Cetrorelix acetate for injection is a synthetic decapeptide with gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) antagonistic activity .
Cetrorelix acetate is an analog of native GnRH with substitutions of amino acids at positions 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , and 10 .
The molecular formula is Acetyl - D - 3 - ( 2 ′ - naphtyl ) - alanine - D - 4 - chlorophenylalanine - D - 3 - ( 3 ′ - pyridyl ) - alanine - L - serine - L - tyrosine - D - citruline - L - leucine - L - arginine - L - proline - D - alanine - amide , and the molecular weight is 1431 . 06 , calculated as the anhydrous free base .
The structural formula is as follows : Cetrorelix acetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Ac - D - Nal1 - D - Cpa2 - D - Pal3 - Ser4 - Tyr5 - D - Cit6 - Leu7 - Arg8 - Pro9 - D - Ala10 - NH2 ) Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg is a sterile lyophilized powder intended for subcutaneous injection after reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( pH 5 - 8 ) , that comes supplied in a 1 . 0 mL pre - filled syringe .
Each vial of cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg contains 0 . 26 - 0 . 27 mg cetrorelix acetate , equivalent to 0 . 25 mg cetrorelix , and 54 . 80 mg mannitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY GnRH induces the production and release of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) from the gonadotrophic cells of the anterior pituitary .
Due to a positive estradiol ( E2 ) feedback at midcycle , GnRH liberation is enhanced resulting in an LH - surge .
This LH - surge induces the ovulation of the dominant follicle , resumption of oocyte meiosis and subsequently luteinization as indicated by rising progesterone levels .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection competes with natural GnRH for binding to membrane receptors on pituitary cells and thus controls the release of LH and FSH in a dose - dependent manner .
The onset of LH suppression is approximately one hour with the 3 mg dose and two hours with the 0 . 25 mg dose .
This suppression is maintained by continuous treatment and there is a more pronounced effect on LH than on FSH .
An initial release of endogenous gonadotropins has not been detected with cetrorelix acetate for injection , which is consistent with an antagonist effect .
The effects of cetrorelix acetate for injection on LH and FSH are reversible after discontinuation of treatment .
In women , cetrorelix acetate for injection delays the LH - surge , and consequently ovulation , in a dose - dependent fashion .
FSH levels are not affected at the doses used during controlled ovarian stimulation .
Following a single 3 mg dose of cetrorelix acetate for injection , duration of action of at least 4 days has been established .
A dose of cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg every 24 hours has been shown to maintain the effect .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic parameters of single and multiple doses of cetrorelix acetate for injection in adult healthy female subjects are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic parameters of Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection following 3 mg single or 0 . 25 mg single and multiple ( daily for 14 days ) subcutaneous ( sc ) administration .
tmax Time to reach observed maximum plasma concentration t1 / 2 Elimination half - life Cmax Maximum plasma concentration ; multiple dose Css , max AUC Area under the curve ; single dose AUC0 - inf , multiple dose AUCt CL Total plasma clearance Vz Volume of distribution Geometric mean ( 95 % CIln ) , * median ( min - max ) † arithmetic mean , ‡ Based on iv administration ( n = 6 , separate study 0013 ) Single dose 3 mg Single dose 0 . 25 mg Multiple dose 0 . 25 mg No .
of subjects 12 12 12 tmax * [ h ] 1 . 5 ( 0 . 5 - 2 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 5 - 1 . 5 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 5 - 2 ) t1 / 2 * [ h ] 62 . 8 ( 38 . 2 - 108 ) 5 . 0 ( 2 . 4 - 48 . 8 ) 20 . 6 ( 4 . 1 - 179 . 3 ) Cmax [ ng / ml ] 28 . 5 ( 22 . 5 - 36 . 2 ) 4 . 97 ( 4 . 17 - 5 . 92 ) 6 . 42 ( 5 . 18 - 7 . 96 ) AUC [ ng · h / ml ] 536 ( 451 - 636 ) 31 . 4 ( 23 . 4 - 42 . 0 ) 44 . 5 ( 36 . 7 - 54 . 2 ) CL † [ ml / min · kg ] 1 . 28 ‡ Vz † [ l / kg ] 1 . 16 ‡ Absorption Cetrorelix acetate for injection is rapidly absorbed following subcutaneous injection , maximal plasma concentrations being achieved approximately one to two hours after administration .
The mean absolute bioavailability of cetrorelix acetate for injection following subcutaneous administration to healthy female subjects is 85 % .
Distribution The volume of distribution of cetrorelix acetate for injection following a single intravenous dose of 3 mg is about 1 l / kg .
In vitro protein binding to human plasma is 86 % .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection concentrations in follicular fluid and plasma were similar on the day of oocyte pick - up in patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation .
Following subcutaneous administration of cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg and 3 mg , plasma concentrations of cetrorelix were below or in the range of the lower limit of quantitation on the day of oocyte pick - up and embryo transfer .
Metabolism After subcutaneous administration of 10 mg cetrorelix acetate for injection to females and males , cetrorelix acetate for injection and small amounts of ( 1 - 9 ) , ( 1 - 7 ) , ( 1 - 6 ) , and ( 1 - 4 ) peptides were found in bile samples over 24 hours .
In in vitro studies , cetrorelix acetate for injection was stable against phase I - and phase II - metabolism .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection was transformed by peptidases , and the ( 1 - 4 ) peptide was the predominant metabolite .
Excretion Following subcutaneous administration of 10 mg cetrorelix to males and females , only unchanged cetrorelix was detected in urine .
In 24 hours , cetrorelix and small amounts of the ( 1 - 9 ) , ( 1 - 7 ) , ( 1 - 6 ) , and ( 1 - 4 ) peptides were found in bile samples .
2 - 4 % of the dose was eliminated in the urine as unchanged cetrorelix , while 5 - 10 % was eliminated as cetrorelix and the four metabolites in bile .
Therefore , only 7 - 14 % of the total dose was recovered as unchanged cetrorelix and metabolites in urine and bile up to 24 hours .
The remaining portion of the dose may not have been recovered since bile and urine were not collected for a longer period of time .
Special Populations Pharmacokinetic investigations have not been performed either in subjects with impaired renal or liver function , or in the elderly , or in children ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pharmacokinetic differences in different races have not been determined .
There is no evidence of differences in pharmacokinetic parameters for cetrorelix acetate for injection between healthy subjects and patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation .
Drug - Drug Interactions No formal drug - drug interaction studies have been performed with cetrorelix acetate for injection ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Clinical Studies Seven hundred thirty - two ( 732 ) patients were treated with cetrorelix acetate for injection in five ( two Phase 2 dose - finding and three Phase 3 ) clinical trials .
The clinical trial population consisted of Caucasians ( 95 . 5 % ) and Black , Asian , Arabian and others ( 4 . 5 % ) .
Women were between 19 and 40 years of age ( mean : 32 ) .
The studies excluded subjects with polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) , subjects with low or no ovarian reserve , and subjects with stage III - IV endometriosis .
Two dose regimens were investigated in these clinical trials , either a single dose per treatment cycle or multiple dosing .
In the Phase 2 studies , a single dose of 3 mg was established as the minimal effective dose for the inhibition of premature LH surges with a protection period of at least 4 days .
When cetrorelix acetate for injection is administered in a multidose regimen , 0 . 25 mg was established as the minimal effective dose .
The extent and duration of LH - suppression is dose dependent .
In the Phase 3 program , efficacy of the single 3 mg dose regimen of cetrorelix acetate for injection and the multiple 0 . 25 mg dose regimen of cetrorelix acetate for injection was established separately in two adequate and well controlled clinical studies utilizing active comparators .
A third non - comparative clinical study evaluated only the multiple 0 . 25 mg dose regimen of cetrorelix acetate for injection .
The ovarian stimulation treatment with recombinant FSH or human menopausal gonadotropin ( hMG ) was initiated on day 2 or 3 of a normal menstrual cycle .
The dose of gonadotropins was administered according to the individual patient ' s disposition and response .
In the single dose regimen study , cetrorelix acetate for injection 3 mg was administered on the day of controlled ovarian stimulation when adequate estradiol levels ( 400 pg / mL ) were obtained , usually on day 7 ( range day 5 - 12 ) .
If hCG was not given within 4 days of the 3 mg dose of cetrorelix acetate for injection , then 0 . 25 mg of cetrorelix acetate for injection was administered daily beginning 96 hours after the 3 mg injection until and including the day of hCG administration .
In the two multiple dose regimen studies , cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg was started on day 5 or 6 of COS .
Both gonadotropins and cetrorelix acetate for injection were continued daily ( multiple dose regimen ) until the injection of human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) .
Oocyte pick - up ( OPU ) followed by in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) as well as embryo transfer ( ET ) were subsequently performed .
The results for cetrorelix acetate for injection are summarized below in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Results of Phase 3 Clinical Studies with Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 3 mg in a single dose ( sd ) regimen and 0 . 25 mg in a multiple dose ( md ) regimen * Progesterone † Following initiation of cetrorelix acetate for injection therapy ‡ Morning values § Median with 5 th – 95 th percentiles ¶ Mean ± standard deviation Parameter Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 3 mg ( sd , active comparator study ) Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg ( md , active comparator study ) Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg ( md , non - comparative study ) No .
of subjects 115 159 303 hCG administered [ % ] 98 . 3 96 . 2 96 . 0 Oocyte pick - up [ % ] 98 . 3 94 . 3 93 . 1 LH - surge [ % ] ( LH ≥ 10 U / L and P * ≥ 1 ng / mL ) † 0 . 0 1 . 9 1 . 0 Serum E2 [ pg / ml ] at day hCG ‡ , § 1125 ( 470 - 2952 ) 1064 ( 341 - 2531 ) 1185 ( 311 - 3676 ) Serum LH [ U / L ] at day hCG ‡ , § 1 . 0 ( 0 . 5 - 2 . 5 ) 1 . 5 ( 0 . 5 - 7 . 6 ) 1 . 1 ( 0 . 5 - 3 . 5 ) No .
of follicles ≥ 11 mm at day hCG ¶ 11 . 2 ± 5 . 5 10 . 8 ± 5 . 2 10 . 4 ± 4 . 5 No .
of oocytes : IVF ¶ ICSI ¶ 9 . 2 ± 5 . 2 10 . 0 ± 4 . 2 7 . 6 ± 4 . 3 10 . 1 ± 5 . 6 8 . 5 ± 5 . 1 9 . 3 ± 5 . 9 Fertilization rate : IVF ¶ ICSI ¶ 0 . 48 ± 0 . 33 0 . 66 ± 0 . 29 0 . 62 ± 0 . 26 0 . 63 ± 0 . 29 0 . 60 ± 0 . 26 0 . 61 ± 0 . 25 No .
of embryos transferred ¶ 2 . 6 ± 0 . 9 2 . 1 ± 0 . 6 2 . 7 ± 1 . 0 Clinical pregnancy rate [ % ] per attempt per subject with ET 22 . 6 26 . 3 20 . 8 24 . 1 19 . 8 23 . 3 In addition to IVF and ICSI , one pregnancy was obtained after intrauterine insemination .
In the five Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials , 184 pregnancies have been reported out of a total of 732 patients ( including 21 pregnancies following the replacement of frozen - thawed embryos ) .
In the 3 mg regimen , 9 patients received an additional dose of 0 . 25 mg of cetrorelix acetate for injection and two other patients received two additional doses of 0 . 25 mg cetrorelix acetate for injection .
The median number of days of cetrorelix acetate for injection multiple dose treatment was 5 ( range 1 - 15 ) in both studies .
No drug related allergic reactions were reported from these clinical studies .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cetrorelix acetate for injection is indicated for the inhibition of premature LH surges in women undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cetrorelix acetate for injection is contraindicated under the following conditions : • Hypersensitivity to cetrorelix acetate , extrinsic peptide hormones or mannitol .
• Known hypersensitivity to GnRH or any other GnRH analogs .
• Known or suspected pregnancy , and lactation ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Severe renal impairment WARNINGS Cetrorelix acetate for injection should be prescribed by physicians who are experienced in fertility treatment .
Before starting treatment with cetrorelix acetate for injection , pregnancy must be excluded ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Cases of hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactoid reactions with the first dose , have been reported during post - marketing surveillance ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
A severe anaphylactic reaction associated with cough , rash , and hypotension , was observed in one patient after seven months of treatment with cetrorelix acetate for injection ( 10 mg / day ) in a study for an indication unrelated to infertility .
Special care should be taken in women with signs and symptoms of active allergic conditions or known history of allergic predisposition .
Treatment with cetrorelix acetate for injection is not advised in women with severe allergic conditions .
Information for Patients Prior to therapy with cetrorelix acetate for injection , patients should be informed of the duration of treatment and monitoring procedures that will be required .
The risk of possible adverse reactions should be discussed ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection should not be prescribed if a patient is pregnant .
If cetrorelix acetate for injection is prescribed to patients for self - administration , information for proper use is given in the Patient Leaflet ( see below ) .
Laboratory Tests After the exclusion of preexisting conditions , enzyme elevations ( ALT , AST , GGT , alkaline phosphatase ) were found in 1 - 2 % of patients receiving cetrorelix acetate for injection during controlled ovarian stimulation .
The elevations ranged up to three times the upper limit of normal .
The clinical significance of these findings was not determined .
During stimulation with human menopausal gonadotropin , cetrorelix acetate for injection had no notable effects on hormone levels aside from inhibition of LH surges .
Drug Interactions No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with cetrorelix acetate for injection .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed with cetrorelix acetate .
Cetrorelix acetate was not genotoxic in vitro ( Ames test , HPRT test , chromosome aberration test ) or in vivo ( chromosome aberration test , mouse micronucleus test ) .
Cetrorelix acetate induced polyploidy in CHL - Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts , but not in V79 - Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts , cultured peripheral human lymphocytes or in an in vitro micronucleus test in the CHL - cell line .
Treatment with 0 . 46 mg / kg cetrorelix acetate for 4 weeks resulted in complete infertility in female rats which was reversed 8 weeks after cessation of treatment .
Pregnancy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Cetrorelix acetate for injection is contraindicated in pregnant women .
When administered to rats for the first seven days of pregnancy , cetrorelix acetate did not affect the development of the implanted conceptus at doses up to 38 μg / kg ( approximately 1 time the recommended human therapeutic dose based on body surface area ) .
However , a dose of 139 μg / kg ( approximately 4 times the human dose ) resulted in a resorption rate and a post implantation loss of 100 % .
When administered from day 6 to near term to pregnant rats and rabbits , very early resorptions and total implantation losses were seen in rats at doses from 4 . 6 μg / kg ( 0 . 2 times the human dose ) and in rabbits at doses from 6 . 8 μg / kg ( 0 . 4 times the human dose ) .
In animals that maintained their pregnancy , there was no increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities .
The fetal resorption observed in animals is a logical consequence of the alteration in hormonal levels effected by the antigonadotrophic properties of cetrorelix acetate for injection , which could result in fetal loss in humans as well .
Therefore , this drug should not be used in pregnant women .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether cetrorelix acetate for injection is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because the effects of cetrorelix acetate for injection on lactation and / or the breast - fed child have not been determined , cetrorelix acetate for injection should not be used by nursing mothers .
Geriatric Use Cetrorelix acetate for injection is not intended to be used in subjects aged 65 and over .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of cetrorelix acetate for injection in 949 patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation in clinical studies was evaluated .
Women were between 19 and 40 years of age ( mean : 32 ) .
94 . 0 % of them were Caucasian .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection was given in doses ranging from 0 . 1 mg to 5 mg as either a single or multiple dose .
Table 3 shows systemic adverse events , reported in clinical studies without regard to causality , from the beginning of cetrorelix acetate for injection treatment until confirmation of pregnancy by ultrasound at an incidence ≥ 1 % in cetrorelix acetate for injection treated subjects undergoing COS .
Table 3 : Adverse Events in ≥ 1 % * Intensity moderate or severe , or WHO Grade II or III , respectively ( WHO preferred term ) Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection N = 949 % ( n ) Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome * 3 . 5 ( 33 ) Nausea 1 . 3 ( 12 ) Headache 1 . 1 ( 10 ) Local site reactions ( e . g . redness , erythema , bruising , itching , swelling , and pruritus ) were reported .
Usually , they were of a transient nature , mild intensity and short duration .
During post - marketing surveillance , cases of mild to moderate Ovarian Hyperstimulation syndrome and infrequent cases of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
Two stillbirths were reported in Phase 3 studies of cetrorelix acetate for injection .
Congenital Anomalies Clinical follow - up studies of 316 newborns of women administered cetrorelix acetate for injection were reviewed .
One infant of a set of twin neonates was found to have anencephaly at birth and died after four days .
The other twin was normal .
Developmental findings from ongoing baby follow - up included a child with a ventricular septal defect and another child with bilateral congenital glaucoma .
Four pregnancies that resulted in therapeutic abortion in Phase 2 and Phase 3 controlled ovarian stimulation studies had major anomalies ( diaphragmatic hernia , trisomy 21 , Klinefelter syndrome , polymalformation , and trisomy 18 ) .
In three of these four cases , intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) was the fertilization method employed ; in the fourth case , in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) was the method employed .
The minor congenital anomalies reported include : supernumerary nipple , bilateral strabismus , imperforate hymen , congenital nevi , hemangiomata , and QT syndrome .
The causal relationship between the reported anomalies and cetrorelix acetate for injection is unknown .
Multiple factors , genetic and others ( including , but not limited to ICSI , IVF , gonadotropins , and progesterone ) make causal attribution difficult to study .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Akorn Operating Company LLC at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdosage with cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg or 3 mg in humans .
Single doses up to 120 mg cetrorelix acetate for injection have been well tolerated in patients treated for other indications without signs of overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ovarian stimulation therapy with gonadotropins ( FSH , hMG ) is started on cycle Day 2 or 3 .
The dose of gonadotropins should be adjusted according to individual response .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg may be administered subcutaneously once daily during the early - to mid - follicular phase .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg is administered on either stimulation day 5 ( morning or evening ) or day 6 ( morning ) and continued daily until the day of hCG administration .
When assessment by ultrasound shows a sufficient number of follicles of adequate size , hCG is administered to induce ovulation and final maturation of the oocytes .
No hCG should be administered if the ovaries show an excessive response to the treatment with gonadotropins to reduce the chance of developing ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome ( OHSS ) .
Administration Cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg can be administered by the patient herself after appropriate instructions by her doctor .
Directions for using Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg with the enclosed needles and pre - filled syringe : • Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water .
• Flip off the plastic cover of the vial and wipe the aluminum ring and the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
• Twist the injection needle with the yellow mark ( 20 gauge ) on the pre - filled syringe .
• Push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper of the vial and slowly inject the solvent into the vial • Leaving the syringe in the vial , gently swirl the vial until the solution is clear and without residues .
Avoid forming bubbles .
• Draw the total contents of the vial into the syringe .
If necessary , invert the vial and pull back the needle as far as needed to withdraw the entire contents of the vial .
• Replace the needle with the yellow mark by the injection needle with the grey mark ( 27 gauge ) .
• Invert the syringe and push the plunger until all air bubbles have been expelled .
• Choose an injection site in the lower abdominal area , preferably around , but staying at least one inch away from the navel .
Choose a different injection site each day to minimize local irritation .
Use a second alcohol swab to clean the skin at the injection site and allow alcohol to dry .
Gently pinch up the skin surrounding the site of injection .
• Inject the prescribed dose as directed by your doctor , nurse or pharmacist .
• Use the syringe and needles only once .
Dispose of the syringe and needles properly after use .
If available , use a medical waste container for disposal .
HOW SUPPLIED Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg is available in a carton of one packaged tray ( NDC 17478 - 793 - 12 ) .
Each packaged tray contains : one glass vial containing 0 . 26 – 0 . 27 mg cetrorelix acetate ( corresponding to 0 . 25 mg cetrorelix ) , one pre - filled glass syringe with 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( pH 5 - 8 ) , one 20 gauge needle ( yellow ) and one 27 gauge needle ( grey ) .
Storage Store Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg refrigerated , 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Store the packaged tray in the outer carton in order to protect from light .
Rx only Manufactured by : GP Pharm , S . A . Barcelona , Spain ( ESP ) – 08777 Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 Made in Spain CTRX00N Rev . 10 / 21 Patient Leaflet Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg Active ingredient : cetrorelix acetate Summary Cetrorelix acetate for injection blocks the effects of a natural hormone , called gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
GnRH controls the secretion of another hormone , called luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , which induces ovulation during the menstrual cycle .
During hormone treatment for ovarian stimulation , premature ovulation may lead to eggs that are not suitable for fertilization .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection blocks such undesirable premature ovulation .
Uses Cetrorelix acetate for injection is used to prevent premature ovulation during controlled ovarian stimulation .
General Cautions Do not use Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection if you • have kidney disease • are allergic to cetrorelix acetate , mannitol or exogenous peptide hormones ( medicines similar to cetrorelix acetate for injection ) or • are pregnant , or think that you might be pregnant , or if you are breast - feeding .
Consult your doctor before taking cetrorelix acetate for injection if you have had severe allergic reactions .
Proper Use Ovarian stimulation therapy is started on cycle Day 2 or 3 .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection 0 . 25 mg is injected under the skin once daily , as directed by your physician .
When an ultrasound examination shows that you are ready , another drug ( hCG ) is injected to induce ovulation .
How should you use Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection ?
You may self - inject cetrorelix acetate for injection after special instruction from your doctor .
To fully benefit from cetrorelix acetate for injection , please read carefully and follow the instructions given below , unless your doctor advises you otherwise .
Cetrorelix acetate for injection is for injection under the skin of the lower abdominal area , preferably around , but staying at least one inch away from the belly button .
Choose a different injection site each day to minimize local irritation .
Dissolve cetrorelix acetate for injection powder only with the water contained in the pre - filled syringe .
Do not use a cetrorelix acetate for injection solution if it contains particles or if it is not clear .
Before you inject cetrorelix acetate for injection yourself , please read the following instructions carefully : Directions for using Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg with the enclosed needles and pre - filled syringe : • Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • On a clean flat surface , lay out everything you need ( one vial of powder , one pre - filled syringe , one injection needle with a yellow mark , and one injection needle with a grey mark ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Flip off the plastic cover of the vial .
Wipe the aluminum ring and the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Take the injection needle with the yellow mark and remove the wrapping .
Take the pre - filled syringe and remove the cover .
Twist the needle on the syringe and remove the cover of the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper of the vial .
Inject the water into the vial by slowly pushing down on the plunger of the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Leave the syringe in the vial .
While carefully holding the syringe and vial , swirl gently to mix the powder and water together .
When it is mixed , it will look clear and have no particles in it .
Do not shake or you will create bubbles in your medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Draw the total contents of the vial into the syringe .
If liquid is left in the vial , invert the vial , pull back the needle until the opening of the needle is just inside the stopper .
If you look from the side through the gap in the stopper , you can control the movement of the needle and the liquid .
It is important to withdraw the entire contents of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Detach the syringe from the needle and lay down the syringe .
Take the injection needle with the grey mark and remove its wrapping .
Twist the needle on the syringe and remove the cover of the needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Invert the syringe and push the plunger until all air bubbles have been pushed out .
Do not touch the needle or allow the needle to touch any surface [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Choose an injection site in the lower abdominal area , preferably around , but at least one inch away from the belly button .
Choose a different injection site each day to minimize local irritation .
Take a second alcohol swab and clean the skin at the injection site and allow alcohol to dry .
Inject the prescribed dose as directed by your doctor , nurse or pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Use the syringe and needles only once .
Dispose of the syringe and needles immediately after use ( put the covers on the needles to avoid injury ) .
A medical waste container should be used for disposal [ MULTIMEDIA ] SPECIAL ADVICE Storage How is Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection to be stored ?
Store Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection in a cool dry place protected from excess moisture and heat .
Store Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg in the refrigerator at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Keep the packaged tray in the outer carton in order to protect it from light .
How long may Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection be stored ?
Do not use the Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection powder or the pre - filled syringe after the expiration date , which is printed on the labels and on the carton , and dispose of the vial and the syringe properly .
How long can you keep Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection after preparation of the solution ?
The solution should be used immediately after preparation .
Store the medicine out of the reach of children .
If you suspect that you may have taken more than the prescribed dose of this medicine , contact your doctor immediately .
This medicine was prescribed for your particular condition .
Do not use it for another condition or give the drug to others .
This leaflet provides a summary of the information about cetrorelix acetate for injection .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for uses other than those listed in the Leaflet .
If you have any questions or concerns , or want more information about cetrorelix acetate for injection , contact your doctor or pharmacist .
This Leaflet has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
October 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg NDC 17478 - 793 - 12 STERILE – FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg NDC 17478 - 793 - 12 Sterile – for subcutaneous use only FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : Cetrorelix Acetate for Injection 0 . 25 mg NDC 17478 - 794 - 12 STERILE – FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Syringe Label : NDC 17478 - 795 - 01 1 mL Prefilled Sterile Water for Injection , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
