DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Use For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • Have very sensitive skin • Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • Skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients Allantoin , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , Benzyl alcohol , Carbomer , Disodium EDTA , Disodium laureth sulfosuccinate , Glycerin , Panthenol , PEG - 8 , PPG - 14 palmeth - 60 hexyl dicarbamate , Sodium hyaluronate , Triethanolamine , Water Questions ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 572 - 6632 , Weekdays 7 : 00 AM - 5 . 30 PM EST .
√ Acne Treatment Manufactured by : Global Pharma Healthcare Pvt . Ltd . , A - 9 , SIDCO Pharmaceutical Complex , Alathur - 603 110 - INDIA .
www . global - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
