1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MONJUVI , in combination with lenalidomide , is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) not otherwise specified , including DLBCL arising from low grade lymphoma , and who are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant ( ASCT ) .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
MONJUVI is a CD19 - directed cytolytic antibody indicated in combination with lenalidomide for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) not otherwise specified , including DLBCL arising from low grade lymphoma , and who are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant ( ASCT ) .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer premedications prior to starting MONJUVI .
( 2 . 2 ) • The recommended dosage of MONJUVI is 12 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion according to the following dosing schedule : ( 2 . 1 ) • Cycle 1 : Days 1 , 4 , 8 , 15 and 22 of the 28 - day cycle .
• Cycles 2 and 3 : Days 1 , 8 , 15 and 22 of each 28 - day cycle .
• Cycle 4 and beyond : Days 1 and 15 of each 28 - day cycle .
• Administer MONJUVI in combination with lenalidomide for a maximum of 12 cycles and then continue MONJUVI as monotherapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of MONJUVI is 12 mg / kg based on actual body weight administered as an intravenous infusion according to the dosing schedule in Table 1 .
Administer MONJUVI in combination with lenalidomide 25 mg for a maximum of 12 cycles , then continue MONJUVI as monotherapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for lenalidomide dosage recommendations .
Table 1 : MONJUVI Dosing ScheduleCycle [ 1 ] Dosing Schedule Cycle 1 Days 1 , 4 , 8 , 15 and 22 Cycles 2 and 3 Days 1 , 8 , 15 and 22 Cycle 4 and beyond Days 1 and 15 [ 1 ] Each treatment cycle is 28 - days .
MONJUVI should be administered by a healthcare professional with immediate access to emergency equipment and appropriate medical support to manage infusion - related reactions ( IRRs ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Premedications Administer premedications 30 minutes to 2 hours prior to starting MONJUVI infusion to minimize infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Premedications may include acetaminophen , histamine H1 receptor antagonists , histamine H2 receptor antagonists , and / or glucocorticosteroids .
For patients not experiencing infusion - related reactions during the first 3 infusions , premedication is optional for subsequent infusions .
If a patient experiences an infusion - related reaction , administer premedications before each subsequent infusion .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dosage modifications for adverse reactions are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Dosage Modifications for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 ( moderate ) • Interrupt infusion immediately and manage signs and symptoms .
• Once signs and symptoms resolve or reduce to Grade 1 , resume infusion at no more than 50 % of the rate at which the reaction occurred .
If the patient does not experience further reaction within 1 hour and vital signs are stable , the infusion rate may be increased every 30 minutes as tolerated to the rate at which the reaction occurred .
Grade 3 ( severe ) • Interrupt infusion immediately and manage signs and symptoms .
• Once signs and symptoms resolve or reduce to Grade 1 , resume infusion at no more than 25 % of the rate at which the reaction occurred .
If the patient does not experience further reaction within 1 hour and vital signs are stable , the infusion rate may be increased every 30 minutes as tolerated to a maximum of 50 % of the rate at which the reaction occurred .
• If after rechallenge the reaction returns , stop the infusion immediately .
Grade 4 ( life - threatening ) • Stop the infusion immediately and permanently discontinue MONJUVI .
Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Platelet count of 50 , 000 / mcL or less • Withhold MONJUVI and lenalidomide and monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) weekly until platelet count is 50 , 000 / mcL or higher .
• Resume MONJUVI at the same dose and lenalidomide at a reduced dose .
Refer to lenalidomide prescribing information for dosage modifications .
Neutrophil count of 1 , 000 / mcL or less for at least 7 days OR Neutrophil count of 1 , 000 / mcL or less with an increase of body temperature to 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or higher OR Neutrophil count less than 500 / mcL • Withhold MONJUVI and lenalidomide and monitor CBC weekly until neutrophil count is 1 , 000 / mcL or higher .
• Resume MONJUVI at the same dose and lenalidomide at a reduced dose .
Refer to lenalidomide prescribing information for dosage modifications .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Reconstitute and dilute MONJUVI prior to infusion .
Reconstitution • Calculate the dose ( mg ) and determine the number of vials needed .
• Reconstitute each 200 mg MONJUVI vial with 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP with the stream directed toward the wall of each vial to obtain a final concentration of 40 mg / mL tafasitamab - cxix .
• Gently swirl the vial ( s ) until completely dissolved .
Do not shake or swirl vigorously .
Complete dissolution may take up to 5 minutes .
• Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter or discoloration .
The reconstituted solution should appear as a colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Discard the vial ( s ) if the solution is cloudy , discolored , or contains visible particles .
• Use the reconstituted MONJUVI solution immediately .
If needed , store the reconstituted solution in the vial for a maximum of 12 hours either refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) or room temperature at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) before dilution .
Protect from light during storage .
Dilution • Determine the volume ( mL ) of the 40 mg / mL reconstituted MONJUVI solution needed based on the required dose .
• Remove a volume equal to the required MONJUVI solution from a 250 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP infusion bag and discard it .
• Withdraw the necessary amount of MONJUVI and slowly dilute in the infusion bag that contains the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to a final concentration of 2 mg / mL to 8 mg / mL .
Discard any unused portion of MONJUVI remaining in the vial .
• Gently mix the intravenous bag by slowly inverting the bag .
Do not shake .
Visually inspect the infusion bag with the diluted MONJUVI infusion solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• If not used immediately , store the diluted MONJUVI infusion solution refrigerated for up to 18 hours at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) and / or at room temperature for up to 12 hours at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
The room temperature storage includes time for infusion .
Protect from light during storage .
Do not shake or freeze the reconstituted or diluted infusion solutions .
Administration • Administer MONJUVI as an intravenous infusion .
• For the first infusion , use an infusion rate of 70 mL / h for the first 30 minutes , then , increase the rate so that the infusion is administered within 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours .
• Administer all subsequent infusions within 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
• Infuse the entire contents of the bag containing MONJUVI .
• Do not co - administer other drugs through the same infusion line .
• No incompatibilities have been observed between MONJUVI with infusion containers made of polypropylene ( PP ) , polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) , polyethylene ( PE ) , polyethylenterephthalate ( PET ) , or glass and infusion sets made of polyurethane ( PUR ) or PVC .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 200 mg of tafasitamab - cxix as white to slightly yellowish lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
For injection : 200 mg of tafasitamab - cxix as lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Infusion - Related Reactions : Monitor patients frequently during infusion .
Interrupt or discontinue infusion based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) • Myelosuppression : Monitor complete blood counts .
Manage using dose modifications and growth factor support .
Interrupt or discontinue MONJUVI based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) • Infections : Bacterial , fungal and viral infections can occur during and following MONJUVI .
Monitor patients for infections .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : May cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Infusion - Related Reactions MONJUVI can cause infusion - related reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In L - MIND , infusion - related reactions occurred in 6 % of the 81 patients .
Eighty percent of infusion - related reactions occurred during cycle 1 or 2 .
Signs and symptoms included fever , chills , rash , flushing , dyspnea , and hypertension .
These reactions were managed with temporary interruption of the infusion and / or with supportive medication .
Premedicate patients prior to starting MONJUVI infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients frequently during infusion .
Based on the severity of the infusion - related reaction , interrupt or discontinue MONJUVI [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Institute appropriate medical management .
5 . 2 Myelosuppression MONJUVI can cause serious or severe myelosuppression , including neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and anemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In L - MIND , Grade 3 neutropenia occurred in 25 % of patients , thrombocytopenia in 12 % , and anemia in 7 % .
Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 25 % and thrombocytopenia in 6 % .
Neutropenia led to treatment discontinuation in 3 . 7 % of patients .
Monitor CBC prior to administration of each treatment cycle and throughout treatment .
Monitor patients with neutropenia for signs of infection .
Consider granulocyte colony - stimulating factor administration .
Withhold MONJUVI based on the severity of the adverse reaction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for dosage modifications .
5 . 3 Infections Fatal and serious infections , including opportunistic infections , occurred in patients during treatment with MONJUVI and following the last dose [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In L - MIND , 73 % of the 81 patients developed an infection .
The most frequent infections were respiratory tract infection ( 24 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 17 % ) , bronchitis ( 16 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 10 % ) and pneumonia ( 10 % ) .
Grade 3 or higher infection occurred in 30 % of the 81 patients .
The most frequent grade 3 or higher infection was pneumonia ( 7 % ) .
Infection - related deaths were reported in 2 . 5 % of the 81 patients .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and manage infections as appropriate .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , MONJUVI may cause fetal B - cell depletion when administered to a pregnant woman .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with MONJUVI and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
MONJUVI is initially administered in combination with lenalidomide .
The combination of MONJUVI with lenalidomide is contraindicated in pregnant women because lenalidomide can cause birth defects and death of the unborn child .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information on use during pregnancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are neutropenia , fatigue , anemia , diarrhea , thrombocytopenia , cough , pyrexia , peripheral edema , respiratory tract infection , and decreased appetite .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MORPHOSYS US INC . at 1 - 844 - 667 - 1992 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B - Cell Lymphoma The safety of MONJUVI was evaluated in L - MIND [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients ( n = 81 ) received MONJUVI 12 mg / kg intravenously in combination with lenalidomide for a maximum of 12 cycles , followed by MONJUVI as monotherapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity as follows : • Cycle 1 : Days 1 , 4 , 8 , 15 and 22 of the 28 - day cycle ; • Cycles 2 and 3 : Days 1 , 8 , 15 and 22 of each 28 - day cycle ; • Cycles 4 and beyond : Days 1 and 15 of each 28 - day cycle .
Among patients who received MONJUVI , 57 % were exposed for 6 months or longer , 42 % were exposed for greater than one year , and 24 % were exposed for greater than two years .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 52 % of patients who received MONJUVI .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 6 % of patients included infections ( 26 % ) , including pneumonia ( 7 % ) , and febrile neutropenia ( 6 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 5 % of patients who received MONJUVI , including cerebrovascular accident ( 1 . 2 % ) , respiratory failure ( 1 . 2 % ) , progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( 1 . 2 % ) and sudden death ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of MONJUVI or lenalidomide due to an adverse reaction occurred in 25 % of patients and permanent discontinuation of MONJUVI due to an adverse reaction occurred in 15 % .
The most frequent adverse reactions which resulted in permanent discontinuation of MONJUVI were infections ( 5 % ) , nervous system disorders ( 2 . 5 % ) , respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders ( 2 . 5 % ) .
Dosage interruptions of MONJUVI or lenalidomide due to an adverse reaction occurred in 69 % of patients and dosage interruption of MONJUVI due to an adverse reaction occurred in 65 % .
The most frequent adverse reactions which required a dosage interruption of MONJUVI were blood and lymphatic system disorders ( 41 % ) , and infections ( 27 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were neutropenia , fatigue , anemia , diarrhea , thrombocytopenia , cough , pyrexia , peripheral edema , respiratory tract infection , and decreased appetite .
Table 3 summarizes the adverse reactions in L - MIND .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B - Cell Lymphoma Who Received MONJUVI in L - MINDAdverse Reaction MONJUVI ( N = 81 ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Neutropenia 51 49 Anemia 36 7 Thrombocytopenia 31 17 Febrile neutropenia 12 12 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue [ 1 ] 38 3 . 7 Pyrexia 24 1 . 2 Peripheral edema 24 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 36 1 . 2 Constipation 17 0 Abdominal pain [ 2 ] 15 1 . 2 Nausea 15 0 Vomiting 15 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 26 1 . 2 Dyspnea 12 1 . 2 Infections Respiratory tract infection [ 3 ] 24 4 . 9 Urinary tract infection [ 4 ] 17 4 . 9 Bronchitis 16 1 . 2 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 22 0 Hypokalemia 19 6 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 19 2 . 5 Muscle spasms 15 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash [ 5 ] 15 2 . 5 Pruritus 10 1 . 2 [ 1 ] Fatigue includes asthenia and fatigue [ 2 ] Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , and abdominal pain upper [ 3 ] Respiratory tract infection includes : lower respiratory tract infection , upper respiratory tract infection , respiratory tract infection [ 4 ] Urinary tract infection includes : urinary tract infection , Escherichia urinary tract infection , urinary tract infection bacterial , urinary tract infection enterococcal [ 5 ] Rash includes rash , rash maculo - papular , rash pruritic , rash erythematous , rash pustular Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients who received MONJUVI were : • Blood and lymphatic system disorders : lymphopenia ( 6 % ) • General disorders and administration site conditions : infusion - related reaction ( 6 % ) • Infections : sepsis ( 4 . 9 % ) • Investigations : weight decreased ( 4 . 9 % ) • Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : arthralgia ( 9 % ) , pain in extremity ( 9 % ) , musculoskeletal pain ( 2 . 5 % ) • Neoplasms benign , malignant and unspecified : basal cell carcinoma ( 1 . 2 % ) • Nervous system disorders : headache ( 9 % ) , paresthesia ( 7 % ) , dysgeusia ( 6 % ) • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : nasal congestion ( 4 . 9 % ) , exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 1 . 2 % ) • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : erythema ( 4 . 9 % ) , alopecia ( 2 . 5 % ) , hyperhidrosis ( 2 . 5 % ) Table 4 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in L - MIND .
Table 4 : Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( > 20 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B - Cell Lymphoma Who Received MONJUVI in L - MINDLaboratory Abnormality MONJUVI [ 1 ] All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Chemistry Glucose increased 49 5 Calcium decreased 47 1 . 4 Gamma glutamyl transferase increased 34 5 Albumin decreased 26 0 Magnesium decreased 22 0 Urate increased 20 7 Phosphate decreased 20 5 Creatinine increased 20 1 . 4 Aspartate aminotransferase increased 20 0 Coagulation Activated partial thromboplastin time increased 46 4 . 1 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate was 74 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is the potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assays .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other tafasitamab products may be misleading .
Overall , no treatment - emergent or treatment - boosted anti - tafasitamab antibodies were observed .
No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics , efficacy , or safety profile of tafasitamab - cxix were observed in 2 . 5 % of 81 patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL with pre - existing anti - tafasitamab antibodies in L - MIND .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , MONJUVI may cause fetal B - cell depletion when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on MONJUVI use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk .
Animal reproductive toxicity studies have not been conducted with tafasitamab - cxix .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
MONJUVI is administered in combination with lenalidomide for up to 12 cycles .
Lenalidomide can cause embryo - fetal harm and is contraindicated for use in pregnancy .
Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for additional information .
Lenalidomide is only available through a REMS program .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) monoclonal antibodies are transferred across the placenta .
Based on its mechanism of action , MONJUVI may cause depletion of fetal CD19 positive immune cells .
Defer administering live vaccines to neonates and infants exposed to tafasitamab - cxix in utero until a hematology evaluation is completed .
Data Animal Data Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with tafasitamab - cxix .
Tafasitamab - cxix is an IgG antibody and thus has the potential to cross the placental barrier permitting direct fetal exposure and depleting fetal B lymphocytes .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tafasitamab - cxix in human milk or the effects on the breastfed child or milk production .
Maternal immunoglobulin G is known to be present in human milk .
The effects of local gastrointestinal exposure and limited systemic exposure in the breastfed infant to MONJUVI are unknown .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with MONJUVI and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
Refer to lenalidomide prescribing information for additional information .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential MONJUVI can cause fetal B - cell depletion when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Refer to the prescribing information for lenalidomide for pregnancy testing requirements prior to initiating the combination of MONJUVI with lenalidomide .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with MONJUVI and for at least 3 months after the last dose .
Additionally , refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for additional recommendations for contraception .
Males Refer to the lenalidomide prescribing information for recommendations .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of MONJUVI in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Among 81 patients who received MONJUVI and lenalidomide in L - MIND , 72 % were 65 years and older , while 38 % were 75 years and older .
Clinical studies of MONJUVI did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether effectiveness differs compared to that of younger subjects .
Patients 65 years and older had more serious adverse reactions ( 57 % ) than younger patients ( 39 % ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Tafasitamab - cxix is a humanized CD19 - directed cytolytic monoclonal antibody that contains an IgG1 / 2 hybrid Fc - domain with 2 amino acid substitutions to modify the Fc - mediated functions of the antibody .
It is produced by recombinant DNA technology in mammalian cells ( Chinese hamster ovary ) .
Tafasitamab - cxix has a molecular weight of approximately 150 kDa .
MONJUVI ( tafasitamab - cxix ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , white to slightly yellowish lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for intravenous use after reconstitution and further dilution .
After reconstitution with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the resulting concentration is 40 mg / mL with a pH of 6 . 0 .
Each single - dose vial contains 200 mg tafasitamab - cxix , citric acid monohydrate ( 3 . 7 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 1 mg ) , sodium citrate dihydrate ( 31 . 6 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 378 . 3 mg ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tafasitamab - cxix is an Fc - modified monoclonal antibody that binds to CD19 antigen expressed on the surface of pre - B and mature B lymphocytes and on several B - cell malignancies , including diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) .
Upon binding to CD19 , tafasitamab - cxix mediates B - cell lysis through apoptosis and immune effector mechanisms , including antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) and antibody - dependent cellular phagocytosis ( ADCP ) .
In studies conducted in vitro in DLBCL tumor cells , tafasitamab - cxix in combination with lenalidomide resulted in increased ADCC activity compared to tafasitamab - cxix or lenalidomide alone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tafasitamab - cxix reduced peripheral blood B cell counts by 97 % after eight days of treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL .
Nadir , with a reduction of 100 % , was reached within 16 weeks of treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Mean trough concentrations ( ± standard deviation ) were 179 ( ± 53 ) μg / mL following administration of MONJUVI at 12 mg / kg on Days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 in Cycle 1 - 3 ( plus an additional dose on Cycle 1 Day 4 ) , and 153 ( ± 68 ) μg / mL following administration of MONJUVI at 12 mg / kg on Days 1 and 15 from Cycle 4 onwards .
Overall maximum tafasitamab - cxix serum concentrations were 483 ( ± 109 ) μg / mL .
Distribution The total volume of distribution for tafasitamab - cxix was 9 . 3 L ( 95 % CI : 8 . 6 , 10 L ) .
Elimination The clearance of tafasitamab - cxix was 0 . 41 L / day ( CV : 32 % ) and terminal elimination half - life was 17 days ( 95 % CI : 15 , 18 days ) .
Specific Populations Bodyweight ( 40 to 163 kg ) has a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of tafasitamab - cxix , with higher clearance and volume of distribution expected with higher body weight .
No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of tafasitamab - cxix were observed based on age ( 16 to 90 years ) , sex , mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 - 89 mL / min estimated by the Cockcroft - Gault equation ) , and mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN , or total bilirubin 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ) .
The effect of severe renal impairment to end - stage renal disease ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) , moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ) , and race / ethnicity on tafasitamab - cxix pharmacokinetics is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies No clinically meaningful differences in tafasitamab - cxix pharmacokinetics were observed when used concomitantly with lenalidomide .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and genotoxicity studies have not been conducted with tafasitamab - cxix .
Fertility studies have not been conducted with tafasitamab - cxix .
In the 13 - week repeat - dose general toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys , no adverse effects on male and female reproductive organs were observed up to the highest dose tested , 100 mg / kg / week ( approximately 9 times the human exposure based on AUC at the clinical dose of 12 mg / kg / week ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of MONJUVI in combination with lenalidomide followed by MONJUVI as monotherapy was evaluated in L - MIND , an open - label , multicenter , single arm trial ( NCT02399085 ) .
Eligible patients had relapsed or refractory DLBCL after 1 to 3 prior systemic therapies , including a CD20 - directed cytolytic antibody , and were not candidates for high dose chemotherapy ( HDC ) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation ( ASCT ) .
Patients received MONJUVI 12 mg / kg intravenously in combination with lenalidomide ( 25 mg orally on Days 1 to 21 of each 28 - day cycle ) for a maximum of 12 cycles , followed by MONJUVI as monotherapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity as follows : • Cycle 1 : Days 1 , 4 , 8 , 15 and 22 of the 28 - day cycle ; • Cycles 2 and 3 : Days 1 , 8 , 15 and 22 of each 28 - day cycle ; • Cycles 4 and beyond : Days 1 and 15 of each 28 - day cycle .
Of the 71 patients with DLBCL confirmed by central laboratory who received the combination therapy , the median age was 71 years ( range : 41 to 86 years ) ; 55 % were males , and 100 % had received a prior CD20 - containing therapy .
Race was collected in 92 % of patients ; of these , 95 % were White , and 3 % were Asian .
The median number of prior therapies was two ; 49 % had one prior line of treatment , and 51 % had 2 to 4 prior lines .
Thirty - two patients ( 45 % ) were refractory to their last prior therapy and 30 ( 42 % ) were refractory to rituximab .
Nine patients ( 13 % ) had received prior ASCT .
The primary reasons patients were not candidates for ASCT included age ( 47 % ) , refractoriness to salvage chemotherapy ( 27 % ) , comorbidities ( 13 % ) and refusal of high dose chemotherapy / ASCT ( 13 % ) .
Efficacy was established based on best overall response rate , defined as the proportion of complete and partial responders , and duration of response , as assessed by an Independent Review Committee using the International Working Group Response Criteria ( Cheson , 2007 ) .
Results are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Efficacy Results in L - MIND N = 71 Best overall response rate , n ( % ) 39 ( 55 % ) ( 95 % CI ) ( 43 % , 67 % ) Complete response rate 37 % Partial response rate 18 % Duration of Response Median ( range ) in months [ 1 ] 21 . 7 ( 0 , 24 ) [ 1 ] Kaplan Meier estimates 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING MONJUVI ( tafasitamab - cxix ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to slightly yellowish lyophilized powder for reconstitution supplied as a 200 mg single - dose vial .
Each 200 mg vial is individually packaged in a carton ( NDC 73535 – 208 – 01 ) .
Store refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not shake .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Infusion - Related Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience signs and symptoms of infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Myelosuppression Inform patients about the risk of myelosuppression .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or greater or signs or symptoms of bruising or bleeding .
Advise patients of the need for periodic monitoring of blood counts [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Infections Inform patients about the risk of infections .
Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or greater or signs or symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with MONJUVI and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise patients that lenalidomide has the potential to cause fetal harm and has specific requirements regarding contraception , pregnancy testing , blood and sperm donation , and transmission in sperm .
Lenalidomide is only available through a REMS program [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with MONJUVI and for at least 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : MORPHOSYS US INC .
Boston , MA 02210 U . S . License No . 2152 Marketed by : MORPHOSYS US INC . and INCYTE Corporation .
MONJUVI is a registered trademark of MorphoSys AG Copyright © 2020 MorphoSys AG .
All rights reserved .
Product of Germany This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : JUN 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION MONJUVI ® ( mon - JOO - vee ) ( tafasitamab - cxix ) for injection What is MONJUVI ?
MONJUVI is a prescription medicine given with lenalidomide to treat adults with certain types of diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) that has come back ( relapsed ) or that did not respond to previous treatment ( refractory ) and who cannot receive a stem cell transplant .
It is not known if MONJUVI is safe and effective in children .
Before you receive MONJUVI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have an active infection or have had one recently .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
MONJUVI may harm your unborn baby .
You should not become pregnant during treatment with MONJUVI .
Do not receive treatment with MONJUVI in combination with lenalidomide if you are pregnant because lenalidomide can cause birth defects and death of your unborn baby .
• You should use an effective method of birth control ( contraception ) during treatment and for at least 3 months after your last dose of MONJUVI .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during treatment with MONJUVI .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if MONJUVI passes into your breastmilk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for at least 3 months after your last dose of MONJUVI .
You should also read the lenalidomide Medication Guide for important information about pregnancy , contraception , and blood and sperm donation .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive MONJUVI ?
• MONJUVI will be given to you by your healthcare provider as an intravenous ( IV ) infusion into one of your veins .
• Your healthcare provider will give you medicines before each infusion to decrease your chance of infusion reactions .
If you do not have any reactions , your healthcare provider may decide that you do not need these medicines with later infusions .
• Each treatment cycle of MONJUVI lasts for 28 days .
• Your healthcare provider may need to delay or completely stop treatment with MONJUVI if you have severe side effects .
• Your healthcare provider will decide how many treatments you need .
• If you miss any appointments , call your healthcare provider as soon as possible to reschedule your appointment .
What are the possible side effects of MONJUVI ?
MONJUVI may cause serious side effects , including : • Infusion reactions .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for infusion reactions during your infusion of MONJUVI .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get fever , chills , flushing , headache , or shortness of breath during an infusion of MONJUVI .
• Low blood cell counts ( platelets , red blood cells , and white blood cells ) .
Low blood cell counts are common with MONJUVI , but can also be serious or severe .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood counts during treatment with MONJUVI .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or above , or any bruising or bleeding .
• Infections .
Serious infections , including infections that can cause death , have happened in people during treatment with MONJUVI and after the last dose .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get a fever of 100 . 4 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or above , or develop any signs or symptoms of an infection .
The most common side effects of MONJUVI include : • feeling tired or weak • diarrhea • cough • fever • swelling of lower legs or hands • respiratory tract infection • decreased appetite These are not all the possible side effects of MONJUVI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of MONJUVI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in this Patient Information .
If you would like more information about MONJUVI , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about MONJUVI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in MONJUVI ?
Active ingredient : tafasitamab - cxix .
Inactive ingredients : citric acid monohydrate , polysorbate 20 , sodium citrate dihydrate , and trehalose dihydrate .
Manufactured by : MORPHOSYS US INC . , Boston , MA 02210 , U . S . License No . 2152 , Marketed by : MORPHOSYS US INC . and INCYTE Corporation .
MONJUVI is a registered trademark of MorphoSys AG .
© 2020 MorphoSys AG .
All rights reserved .
For more information call MorphoSys US Inc . , at 1 - 844 - 667 - 1992 or go to www . MONJUVI . com .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg Vial Carton NDC 73535 – 208 – 01 MONJUVI ® ( tafasitamab - cxix ) For Injection 200 mg / vial For Intravenous Infusion Only .
Reconstitute and dilute prior to administration .
Single - dose vial Discard unused portion 1 Vial Rx only morphosys | Incyte [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
