DESCRIPTION Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % is a clear , colorless , sterile solution intended for topical ophthalmic use .
Cromolyn sodium is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : Disodium 5 - 5 ' - [ ( 2 - hydroxytrimethylene ) dioxy ] bis [ 4 - oxo - 4 H - 1 - benzopyran - 2 - carboxylate ] Pharmacologic Category : Mast cell stabilizer .
EACH mL CONTAINS : Active : cromolyn sodium 40 mg ( 4 % ) ; Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : edetate disodium 0 . 1 % and purified water .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 0 - 7 . 0 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In vitro and in vivo animal studies have shown that cromolyn sodium inhibits the degranulation of sensitized mast cells which occurs after exposure to specific antigens .
Cromolyn sodium acts by inhibiting the release of histamine and SRS - A ( slow - reacting substance of anaphylaxis ) from the mast cell .
Another activity demonstrated in vitro is the capacity of cromolyn sodium to inhibit the degranulation of non - sensitized rat mast cells by phospholipase A and the subsequent release of chemical mediators .
Another study showed that cromolyn sodium did not inhibit the enzymatic activity of released phospholipase A on its specific substrate .
Cromolyn sodium has no intrinsic vasoconstrictor , antihistaminic or anti - inflammatory activity .
Cromolyn sodium is poorly absorbed .
When multiple doses of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution are instilled into normal rabbit eyes , less than 0 . 07 % of the administered dose of cromolyn sodium is absorbed into the systemic circulation ( presumably by way of the eye , nasal passages , buccal cavity and gastrointestinal tract ) .
Trace amounts ( less than 0 . 01 % ) of the cromolyn sodium dose penetrate into the aqueous humor and clearance from this chamber is virtually complete within 24 hours after treatment is stopped .
In normal volunteers , analysis of drug excretion indicates that approximately 0 . 03 % of cromolyn sodium is absorbed following administration to the eye .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % is indicated in the treatment of vernal keratoconjunctivitis , vernal conjunctivitis , and vernal keratitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % is contraindicated in those patients who have shown hypersensitivity to cromolyn sodium or to any of the other ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients may experience a transient stinging or burning sensation following application of Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % .
The recommended frequency of administration should not be exceeded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised to follow the patient instructions listed on the Information for Patients sheet .
Users of contact lenses should refrain from wearing lenses while exhibiting the signs and symptoms of vernal keratoconjunctivitis , vernal conjunctivitis , or vernal keratitis .
Do not wear contact lenses during treatment with Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies of cromolyn sodium in mice ( 12 months intraperitoneal administration at doses up to 150 mg / kg three days per week ) , hamsters ( intraperitoneal administration at doses up to 52 . 6 mg / kg three days per week for 15 weeks followed by 17 . 5 mg / kg three days per week for 37 weeks ) , and rats ( 18 months subcutaneous administration at doses up to 75 mg / kg six days per week ) showed no neoplastic effects .
The average daily maximum dose levels administered in these studies were 192 . 9 mg / m2 for mice , 47 . 2 mg / m2 for hamsters and 385 . 8 mg / m2 for rats .
These doses correspond to approximately 6 . 8 , 1 . 7 and 14 times the maximum daily human dose of 28 mg / m2 .
Cromolyn sodium showed no mutagenic potential in the Ames Salmonella / microsome plate assays , mitotic gene conversion in Saccharomycas cerevisiae and in an in vitro cytogenetic study in human peripheral lymphocytes .
No evidence of impaired fertility was shown in laboratory reproduction studies conducted subcutaneously in rats at the highest doses tested , 175 mg / kg / day ( 1050 mg / m2 ) in males and 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 ) in females .
These doses are approximately 37 and 21 times the maximum daily human dose , respectively , based on mg / m2 .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies with cromolyn sodium administered subcutaneously to pregnant mice and rats at maximum daily doses of 540 mg / kg ( 1620 mg / m2 ) and 164 mg / kg ( 984 mg / m2 ) , respectively , and intravenously to rabbits at a maximum daily dose of 485 mg / kg ( 5820 mg / m2 ) produced no evidence of fetal malformation .
These doses represent approximately 57 , 35 , and 205 times the maximum daily human dose , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis .
Adverse fetal effects ( increased resorption and decreased fetal weight ) were noted only at the very high parenteral doses that produced maternal toxicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 4 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reaction attributed to the use of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution , on the basis of reoccurrence following readministration , is transient ocular stinging or burning upon instillation .
The following adverse reactions have been reported as infrequent events .
It is unclear whether they are attributable to the drug : Conjunctival injection ; watery eyes ; itchy eyes ; dryness around the eye ; puffy eyes ; eye irritation ; and styes .
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely and include dyspnea , edema and rash .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is 1 or 2 drops in each eye 4 to 6 times a day at regular intervals .
One drop contains approximately 1 . 6 mg cromolyn sodium .
Patients should be advised that the effect of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution therapy is dependent upon its administration at regular intervals , as directed .
Symptomatic response to therapy ( decreased itching , tearing , redness , and discharge ) is usually evident within a few days , but longer treatment for up to six weeks is sometimes required .
Once symptomatic improvement has been established , therapy should be continued for as long as needed to sustain improvement .
If required , corticosteroids may be used concomitantly with Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % .
HOW SUPPLIED Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % is supplied in a white , opaque , plastic ophthalmic dispenser in the following sizes : 10 mL NDC 71205 - 230 - 10 Storage : Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from light - store in original carton .
Keep tightly closed and out of the reach of children .
Rx Only 9007073 - 0811 Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Printed in USA August 2011 Relabeled by Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PHARMACIST - DETACH HERE AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO PATIENTS Information for the Patient Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is important to use Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % regularly , as directed by your physician .
• 1 .
Thoroughly wash your hands .
• 2 .
Remove safety seal ( Figure 1 ) .
• 3 .
Remove cap ( Figure 2 ) .
• 4 .
Sit or stand comfortably , with your head tilted back ( Figure 3 ) .
• 5 .
Open eyes , look up , and draw the lower lid of your eye down gently with your index finger ( Figure 4 ) .
• 6 .
Hold the Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % bottle upside down .
Place dropper tip as close as possible to the lower eyelid and gently squeeze out the prescribed number of drops ( Figure 5 ) .
• 7 .
Do not touch the eye or eyelid with the dropper tip .
• 8 .
Blink a few times to make sure the eye is covered with the solution .
• 9 .
Close your eye and remove any excess solution with a clean tissue .
• 10 .
Repeat process in the other eye .
SPECIAL TIPS • 1 .
Avoid placing Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % directly on the cornea ( the area just over the pupil ) , because it is especially sensitive .
You will find the administration of the eye drops more comfortable if you place the drops just inside the lower eyelid as shown in Figure 5 on the previous page .
• 2 .
To avoid contamination of the solution , do not touch dropper tip to the eye , fingers , or any other surface .
Replace cap after use .
It is recommended that any remaining contents be discarded after the treatment period prescribed by your physician .
• 3 .
Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from light - store in original carton .
• 4 .
Keep tightly closed and out of the reach of children .
• 5 .
Do not use with any other ocular medication unless directed by your physician .
Do not wear contact lenses during treatment with Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 4 % .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Printed in USA Relabeled by Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Rev . December 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 71205 - 230 - 10 Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP 4 % Rx Only STERILE 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
