( MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTES AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION TYPE 1 , USP ) A MAINTENANCE ELECTROLYTE SOLUTION Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Injection Type 1 , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution designed for intravenous administration .
The solution is formulated to provide fluid and electrolytes for treatment of dehydration and acidosis .
Each 100 mL contains dextrose , hydrous 5 g ; sodium lactate , anhydrous 260 mg ; potassium chloride 141 mg ; magnesium chloride , hexahydrate 30 mg ; monobasic potassium phosphate , anhydrous 15 mg ; and monobasic sodium phosphate , monohydrate 25 mg .
Each liter contains 25 mEq sodium ( Na + ) ; 20 mEq potassium ( K + ) ; 3 mEq magnesium ( Mg + + ) ; 22 mEq chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ; 3 mM of phosphate ( PO4 ≡ ) ; and 23 mEq lactate ( CH3CH ( OH ) COO ¯ ) .
The electrolyte content is hypotonic ( 100 mOsmol / L ) in relation to the extracellular fluid ( 1 pprox ..
280 mOsmol / L ) .
The osmolarity for the total solution is 352 mOsmol / L ( calc . )
.
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
pH is 5 . 0 ( 4 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) .
Dextrose , USP , hydrous is chemically designated C6H12O6 • H2O ( D - glucose , monohydrate ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
Dextrose , hydrous has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Magnesium Chloride , USP , hexahydrate is chemically designated MgCl2 • 6H2O , colorless flakes or crystals very soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Monobasic Potassium Phosphate , NF , anhydrous is chemically designated KH2PO4 , colorless crystals or white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Lactate , USP is chemically designated CH3CH ( OH ) COONa , a 60 % aqueous solution miscible in water .
Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , USP , monohydrate is chemically designated NaH2PO4 • H2O , white crystals or granules freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions inside the plastic container also can leach out certain of their chemical components in very small amounts before the expiration period is attained .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection contains a hypotonic concentration of electrolytes with dextrose .
The letters " MB " mean " modified Butler ' s " solution ; the modified solution contains 5 mEq less sodium , 5 mEq more potassium , and 3 mEq added magnesium , as compared with the original Butler ' s solution .
The modified solution can be used in pediatric patients for treatment of dehydration , acidosis , diarrhea , or burns , and in adults for postoperative fluid and electrolyte therapy .
Solutions containing dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
The lactate anion provides an alkalizing effect resulting from simultaneous removal by the liver of lactate and hydrogen ions .
In the liver , the lactate is metabolized to glycogen which is ultimately converted to carbon dioxide and water by oxidative metabolism .
The lactate anion acts as a source ( alternate ) of bicarbonate when normal production and utilization of lactic acid is not impaired as a result of disordered lactate metabolism .
Since metabolic conversion is dependent on the integrity of cellular oxidative processes , lactate may be inadequate or ineffective as a source of bicarbonate in patients suffering from acidosis associated with shock or other disorders involving reduced perfusion of body tissues .
When oxidative activity is intact , one to two hours time is required for metabolism of lactate .
Magnesium chloride in water dissociates to provide magnesium ( Mg + + ) and chloride ( Cl ‾ ) ions .
Magnesium is the second most plentiful cation of the intracellular fluids .
It is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
Normal plasma concentration ranges from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 or 3 . 0 mEq / liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Phosphate is one of the three major intracellular electrolytes ( along with potassium and magnesium ) and the largest anion component found within the cells .
Its concentration and excretion are largely dependent on intake , acid - base balance and endocrine function .
Its metabolism follows that of calcium in many respects .
Phosphate anion in electrolyte solutions may help to repair phosphate deficiency .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl ‾ ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult and child over 10 days old ; 3 . 5 to 6 . 0 mEq / liter in a child less than 10 days old ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Average normal pediatric daily requirements are based on the child ' s weight as described in the table below : Weight Fluid Requirements Up to 10 kg 100 mL / kg 11 to 20 kg 1 , 000 mL + 50 mL / kg for each kg above 10 kg Above 20 kg 1 , 500 mL + 20 mL / kg for each kg above 20 kg Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments , and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection contains a hypotonic electrolyte concentration .
This should not be confused with the total tonicity ( electrolytes plus nonelectrolytes ) of solutions containing both electrolytes and dextrose .
In general , solutions providing isotonic electrolyte concentrations are most applicable to replacement of acute deficits , whereas hypotonic electrolyte concentrations are best suited for parenteral maintenance of water requirements when only small quantities of electrolytes are desired .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection is indicated for intravenous administration to infants for treatment of dehydration , acidosis , diarrhea , and burns , but only after administration of an initial priming solution : 15 mL of 5 % dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection / kg of body weight .
In adults , Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection is indicated postoperatively for intravenous fluid and electrolyte maintenance therapy , with a small amount of carbohydrate calories for reducing catabolism of endogenous protein reserves .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing potassium are contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered .
WARNINGS Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate ions should be done with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate ions , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ionosol solutions .
It is also not known whether Ionosol solutions can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ionosol solutions should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
In infants , Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection is given only after administration of an initial priming solution : 15 mL of half isotonic saline in 5 % dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection / kg of body weight , administered to small infants at a maximum rate of 0 . 8 mL / minute .
Infants typically tolerate not more than 150 to 200 mL of Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection per kg body weight / day .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
In adults , intravenous infusions of Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection are given postoperatively , at a rate not greater than 4 mL / minute .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
See PRECAUTIONS .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open : Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
To Add Medication • Prepare additive port .
• Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
• The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
To Administer • Attach administration set per manufacturer ' s instructions .
• Regulate rate of administration per institutional policy .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED Ionosol MB and 5 % Dextrose Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes and 5 % Dextrose Injection Type 1 , USP ) is supplied in flexible plastic single - dose containers as follows : NDC Fill Volume / Container size ( mL ) ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
0409 - 7372 - 62 [ 1 ] 250 / 250 0990 - 7372 - 62 null 250 / 250 0409 - 7372 - 03 [ 2 ] 500 / 500 0990 - 7372 - 03 null , null 500 / 500 [ 1 ] Manufactured by ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA [ 2 ] Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : August , 2020 ICU Medical , Inc .
Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA IFU0000258 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Bag Label 500 mL NDC 0990 - 7372 - 03 IONOSOL ® MB and 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION ( MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTES AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION TYPE 1 , USP ) A MAINTENANCE ELECTROLYTE SOLUTION EACH 100 mL CONTAINS DEXTROSE , HYDROUS 5 g ; MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE , HEXAHYDRATE 30 mg ; POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 141 mg ; MONOBASIC POTASSIUM PHOSPHATE , ANHYDROUS 15 mg ; MONOBASIC SODIUM PHOSPHATE , MONOHYDRATE 25 mg ; SODIUM LACTATE , ANHYDROUS 260 mg .
ELECTROLYTES PER LITER ( NOT INCLUDING IONS FOR pH ADJUSTMENT ) : SODIUM 25 mEq ; POTASSIUM 20 mEq ; MAGNESIUM 3 mEq ; CHLORIDE 22 mEq ; PHOSPHATE 3 mM ; LACTATE 23 mEq .
MAY CONTAIN HYDROCHLORIC ACID FOR pH ADJUSTMENT .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
352 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC . )
pH 5 . 0 ( 4 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
3 V icumedical Rx ONLY CONTAINS DEHP IM - 5110 Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Overwrap Label TO OPEN TEAR AT NOTCH 2 HDPE DO NOT REMOVE FROM OVERWRAP UNTIL READY FOR USE .
AFTER REMOVING THE OVERWRAP , CHECK FOR MINUTE LEAKS BY SQUEEZING CONTAINER FIRMLY .
IF LEAKS ARE FOUND , DISCARD SOLUTION AS STERILITY MAY BE IMPAIRED .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE : ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 25 ° C ) .
AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
SEE INSERT .
98 - 4321 - R14 - 3 / 98 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
