Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 1200 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor is rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Phenylisopropyl Dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 3 Stearate / Isostearate / Dimer Dilinoleate Crosspolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Principle Display Label NDC : 11822 - 1820 - 4 daylogic SPORT CONTINUOUS SPRAY SUNSCREEN BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + UVA / UVB PROTECTION WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) NON - GREASY QUICK AND EVEN COVERAGE 50 + NET WT 6 OZ ( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
