Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate USP 4 % Purpose Vaginal antifungal Use • treats vaginal yeast infections Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes , or a weakened immune system .
• been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine warfarin , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • adults and children 12 years of age and over : • insert 1 applicatorful into the vagina at bedtime for 3 nights in a row .
Throw applicator away after use .
• children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • do not use if seal over tube opening has been punctured • do not purchase if carton is open • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • see end flaps of carton and end of tube for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monostearate and stearyl alcohol .
Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Consumer Information Leaflet Miconazole 3 Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) Vaginal Antifungal Cures Most Vaginal Yeast Infections Why should I use Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) ?
Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP contains 4 % miconazole nitrate cream that cures most vaginal yeast infections .
Do not use miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) if this is the first time you have vaginal discharge , itching , burning and discomfort .
See your doctor or health professional first to find out the cause of your symptoms .
If a doctor has told you in the past that you had a vaginal yeast infection and you have the same symptoms now ( such as vaginal discharge , itching or burning ) , then miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) may work for you .
What is a vaginal yeast infection ?
A vaginal yeast infection is a common condition caused by an overgrowth of yeast ( Candida ) that may normally live in the vagina .
Your doctor may call this infection " monilia " or " candidiasis . "
Some women may have a yeast infection on the skin outside of the vagina ( vulva ) at the same time that they have a vaginal infection .
Who can get a vaginal yeast infection ?
You can get a vaginal yeast infection at any age .
It is most common during the childbearing years .
Women who are pregnant or diabetic , taking antibiotics , birth control pills or steroids , or who have a weakened immune system are more likely to get repeated yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Some medical conditions can weaken the body ' s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV – the virus that causes AIDS ) .
The HIV virus causes the body to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
If you may have been exposed to HIV and get repeated vaginal yeast infections , you should see your doctor right away .
For more information on HIV infection , please contact your doctor or the CDC National AIDS HOTLINE .
The CDC phone number is : 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 ( English and Spanish ) , or 1 - 888 - 232 - 6348 ( hearing impaired , TDD ) .
How can I tell if I have a vaginal yeast infection ?
When you have a vaginal yeast infection , you may have one or more of the following symptoms : • vaginal itching • vaginal discharge that may be thick , white , and lumpy like cottage cheese • vaginal soreness , irritation , or burning • rash or redness on the skin outside the vagina ( vulva ) • burning on urination • painful vaginal intercourse ( sex ) Note : Vaginal yeast infections do NOT cause fever , chills , lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , foul - smelling vaginal discharge , or a missed period .
These may be signs of a sexually transmitted disease ( STD ) or a tubal pregnancy .
If you have these symptoms , call your doctor right away .
What are other causes of a vaginal discharge ?
It is normal to have a small amount of vaginal discharge at certain times of the month .
This normal discharge may be clear or slightly white and does not cause itching , pain or a foul odor .
The most common cause of an abnormal vaginal discharge is an infection .
These infections include bacterial vaginosis ( BV ) , trichomoniasis ( Trich ) , gonorrhea ( GC ) and / or chlamydia .
All of these may be transmitted sexually and are called sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
If you have more questions about sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) call the CDC STD Hotline at 1 - 800 - 227 - 8922 .
Although many of the infections mentioned above can cause symptoms similar to a vaginal yeast infection ( vaginal discharge , irritation and itching ) , their diagnosis must be made by a doctor so that proper treatment can be given .
If these infections are not properly treated or if proper treatment is delayed , serious problems , such as pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) may result , which may prevent you from having children in the future .
If you are pregnant and do not get the proper treatment , the infection may be passed to your baby before or during delivery and may cause your baby to have permanent damage .
If you have multiple sex partners or a new sex partner , you should also ask a doctor before use to make sure you do not have an STD .
Why do women get repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
Women may get repeated vaginal yeast infections that may not clear up easily with proper treatment .
Listed below are some of the causes of repeated yeast infections : • hormonal changes occurring a few days before the monthly period • use of antibiotics • use of some birth control pills • pregnancy • diabetes ( " sugar " or " high blood sugar " ) • clothing - wearing tight layers or moist clothing in the genital area • weakened immune system - some drugs ( such as chemotherapy or steroids ) and medical conditions can weaken the body ' s normal ability to fight infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Infection with HIV causes the person to be more likely to get infections , including vaginal yeast infections .
If you get vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) , you should talk to a doctor .
Are vaginal yeast infections sexually transmitted ?
Vaginal yeast infections are usually not spread by having intercourse ( sex ) .
However , if your partner has a rash , itching or discomfort in his genital area , he should contact a doctor to find out the cause of his symptoms and tell the doctor that you are treating your vaginal yeast infection with miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) .
How can I prevent repeated vaginal yeast infections ?
To lower your chances of getting another yeast infection : • Try to keep the genital area cool and dry .
Yeast grow well in warm , moist areas .
The following suggestions may be helpful : • ( 1 ) Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
• ( 2 ) Change out of damp clothes or a wet bathing suit as soon as possible .
• ( 3 ) If you use minipads when you are not having a menstrual period , change the minipads often .
• Talk with your doctor about any drugs you are now taking .
You are more likely to get a vaginal yeast infection if you are taking certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , or birth control pills .
Do not stop taking these drugs without first asking your doctor .
A doctor may need to see you to make sure that you do not have other medical conditions such as diabetes or a weakened immune system .
Can I use Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) during my menstrual period ?
Yes , this product can be used during your menstrual period .
In fact , many women get vaginal yeast infections just before their period because of hormonal changes .
Using miconazole nitrate vaginal cream during your period will not affect how well this product works .
If you have started treatment and your period occurs , you should complete the full course of treatment .
Do not use tampons while using this product , because tampons may remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads instead , and change them often .
Can I use other vaginal products with Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) ?
This drug should not be used with other vaginal products .
• Douches and tampons may remove some of the miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) from the vagina .
• Spermicides may interfere with miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) .
• Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged by this product and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
How can I get the best results when treating my infection ?
• Use 1 applicator full of vaginal cream at bedtime , even during your menstrual period for 3 nights in a row .
• Dry the genital area thoroughly after a shower , bath or swim .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp clothes as soon as possible .
A dry area is less likely to lead to the overgrowth of yeast .
• Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes .
• Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement or after urination .
• Do not douche , because douching may wash the drug out of the vagina .
• Do not use tampons , because they remove some of the drug from the vagina .
Use deodorant - free sanitary napkins or pads as needed .
• Do not use spermicides , as they may interfere with miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) .
• Do not have vaginal intercourse while using miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) .
• Do not scratch the skin outside the vagina .
Scratching can cause more irritation and can spread the infection .
• Tell your doctor about any drugs you are now taking .
Certain drugs such as antibiotics , steroids , and birth control pills , may make it more likely for you to get a vaginal yeast infection .
If you are taking any of these drugs do not stop taking them without first asking a doctor .
• If you have any other medical questions or concerns about vaginal yeast infections , call your doctor .
What warnings should I know about when using Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) ?
For vaginal use only .
Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time .
You may need a different treatment .
• lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You could have a more serious condition .
• vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine , warfarin ( coumadin ) , because bleeding or bruising may occur .
When using this product : • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product .
Stop use and ask your doctor if : • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
These may be signs that this product is not working , or you may have a more serious condition or an allergic reaction .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
What side effects may occur with Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) ?
A mild increase in vaginal burning , itching , or irritation may occur when the applicator containing the cream is inserted .
Abdominal cramping has also been reported .
Stop using miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) and consult your doctor if you have abdominal pain , hives , skin rash , or if you have severe vaginal burning , itching , or irritation or swelling .
What should I do if I have questions about Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) ?
Questions of a medical nature should be taken up with your doctor .
If you have any other questions or need more information on this product , call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 .
Other information : • TAMPER - EVIDENT FEATURE - seal over tube opening .
Do not use if seal has been punctured .
• Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : miconazole nitrate USP 4 % .
Inactive ingredients : cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol .
How should I use Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) with 3 disposable applicators ?
This product is for adults and children 12 years of age and over .
For children under 12 years , ask a doctor .
Directions for using the vaginal cream : Begin treatment before going to bed : • 1 .
To open the tube , unscrew the cap .
The first time the tube is opened , press the sharp point of the cap into the sealed end of the tube .
Push down firmly until the seal is broken .
( See pictures . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Attach the applicator to the tube of cream by placing " A " end of the applicator firmly onto tube of cream .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Gently squeeze the cream into the applicator , continue squeezing until applicator is full .
Separate the applicator from the tube .
DO NOT release pressure on the tube until you have separated it from the filled applicator .
After each use , replace the cap and roll up the tube from the bottom .
• 4 .
Hold the barrel as shown in the picture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Gently insert the applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
This can be done while lying on your back with your knees bent ( as shown in the picture ) or while standing with your feet apart and your knees bent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
With one hand holding the barrel , use the other hand to push the plunger all the way in to place the cream as far back in the vagina as possible .
Then remove both parts of the applicator from the vagina .
• 7 .
Throw away applicator after use .
Do not flush in toilet ..
• 8 .
Lie down as soon as possible after inserting the cream .
This will reduce leakage .
• 9 .
Repeat steps 2 through 8 before going to bed for the next 2 days .
You may want to use deodorant - free pads or pantyshields to protect your clothing during the time that you are using miconazole nitrate vaginal cream USP ( 4 % ) .
This is because the cream can leak or you may get some discharge .
Do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , condoms , or diaphragms until after you have completed treatment and your symptoms are gone .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Made in Canada LPK - 5199 - 3 0220 - 3 35 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 g Tube Carton CURES most vaginal YEAST INFECTIONS NDC 51672 - 2070 - 9 3 Day Treatment Miconazole 3 Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP ( 4 % ) Vaginal Antifungal One 0 . 9 oz ( 25 g ) tube of 3 Day Vaginal Cream with 3 Disposable Applicators [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
