Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each lozenge ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Menthol 5 mg Oral pain reliever Uses temporarily relieves • sore throat • sore mouth • minor mouth irritation • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold Warnings Sore throat warning • If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea or vomiting consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use in a child under 6 years of age .
Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling develops • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older : take 2 lozenges ( one immediately after the other ) and allow each lozenge to dissolve slowly in the mouth ; may be repeated every 4 hours , not to exceed 12 lozenges in any 24 - hour period , or as directed by a doctor • children 6 to under 12 years of age : take 1 lozenge and allow to dissolve slowly in the mouth ; may be repeated every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 lozenges in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • tamper evident : product is sealed in blister package for your protection .
Do not use if carton is damaged or if printed seal on blister is broken or missing .
• store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients D & C red # 33 , FD & C red # 40 , flavors , isomalt , maltitol syrup , propylene glycol , sorbitol , sucralose , water Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 963 - 3382 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 16 Lozenge Blister Pack NDC 63824 - 161 - 16 NEW !
Delsym ® COUGH RELIEF PLUS SOOTHING ACTION Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg ( Cough Suppressant ) Menthol 5 mg ( Oral Pain Reliever ) • Quiets cough • Relieves sore throat • Soothing action 16 LOZENGES Sugar Free Cherry [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
