DESCRIPTION Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is applied topically and used in the removal of excessive keratin in hyperkeratotic skin disorders .
Each gram of Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam contains salicylic acid 6 % as the active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : dimethicone , ethylparaben , glycerin , methylcellulose , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polysorbate 20 , polysorbate 80 , povidone , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sodium hydroxide , stearic acid and trolamine and in propellants butane and propane .
CHEMICAL STRUCTURE Salicylic acid is a 2 - hydroxy derivative of benzoic acid having the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Salicylic acid has been shown to produce desquamation of the horny layer of skin while not affecting qualitative or quantitative changes in structure of the viable epidermis .
The mechanism of action has been attributed to dissolution of intercellular cement substance .
In a study of the percutaneous absorption of salicylic acid from Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam in four patients with extensive active psoriasis , Taylor and Halprin showed that peak serum levels never exceeded 5 mg / 100 mL even though more than 60 % of the applied salicylic acid was absorbed .
Systemic toxic reactions are usually associated with much higher serum leverls ( 30 to 40 mg / 100 mL ) .
Peak serum levels occurred within 5 hours of the topical application under occlusion .
The sites were occluded for 10 hours over the entire body surface below the neck .
Since salicylates are distributed in the extracellular space , patients with a contracted extracellular space due to dehydration or diuretics have higher salicylate levels than those with a normal extracellular space .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
The major metabolites identified in the urine after topical administration are salicyluric acid ( 52 % ) , salicylate glucuronides ( 42 % ) , and free salicylic acid ( 6 % ) .
The urinary metabolites after percutaneous absorption differ from those after oral salicylate administration ; those derived from percutaneous absorption contain more glucuronides and less salicyluric and salicylic acid .
Almost 95 % of a single dose of salicylate is excreted within 24 hours of its entrance into the extracellular space .
Fifty to eighty percent of salicylate is protein bound to albumin .
Salicylates compete with the binding of several drugs and can modify the action of these drugs .
By similar competetive mechanisms other drugs can influence the serum levels of salicylate .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
The mechanism of action of topically applied salicylic acid has been attributed to the dissolution of intercellular cement substance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For Dermatologic Use : Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is a topical aid in the removal of excessive keratin in hyperkeratotic skin disorders , including verrucae and the various ichthyoses , keratosis palmaris and plantaris , keratosis pilaris , pityriasis rubra pilaris and psoriasis .
For Podiatric Use : Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is a topical aid in the removal of excessive keratin on dorsal and plantar hyperkeratotic lesions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should not be used in any patient known to be sensitive to salicylic acid or any other listed ingredients .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should not be used in children under 2 years of age .
WARNINGS Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is for external use only .
It is not for ophthalmic , oral , anal or intravaginal use .
Contact with eyes , lips , broken or inflamed skin , and all mucous membranes should be avoided .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should not be used by persons who have a known hypersensitivity to salicylic acid or any of the other listed ingredients .
Prolonged use over large areas , especially in children and those patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment could result in salicylism .
Concomitant use of other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels should be avoided where the potential for toxicity is present .
In children under 12 years of age and those patients with renal or hepatic impairment , the area to be treated should be limited and the patient monitored closely for signs of salicylate toxicity : nausea , vomiting , dizziness , loss of hearing , tinnitus , lethargy , hyperpnoea , diarrhea , psychic disturbances .
In the event of salicylic acid toxicity , the use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be discontinued .
Fluids should be administered to promote urinary excretion .
Treatment with sodium bicarbonate ( oral or intravenous ) should be instituted as appropriate .
Condidering the potential of developing Reye ’ s syndrome , salicylate products should not be administered to children or teenagers with varicella or influenza , unless directed by a physician .
PRECAUTIONS Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be used only as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it is prescribed .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should not be used on any skin area where inflammation or exudation is present as increased absorption may occur .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult with prescribing physician .
DRUG INTERACTIONS ( The following interactions are from a published review and include reports concerning both oral and topical salicylate administration .
The relationship of these interactions to the use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is not known . )
I . Due to the competition of salicylate with other drugs for binding to serum albumin , the following drug interactions may occur : Drug Description of Interaction Tolbutamide ; Sulfonylureas Hypoglycemia potentiated Methotrexate Decrease tubular reabsorption ; clinical toxicity from methotrexate can result Oral Anticoagulants Increased bleeding II .
Drugs changing salicylate levels by altering renal tubular reabsorption : Drug Description Corticosteroids Decreases plasma salicylate level ; tapering doses of steroids may promote salicylism Ammonium Sulfate Increases plasma salicylate level III .
Drugs with complicated interactions with salicylates : Drug Description Heparin Salicylate decreases platelet adhesivesness and interferes with hemostasis in heparin - treated patients Pyrazinamide Inhibits pyrazinamide - induced hyperuricemia Uricosuric Agents Effect of probenecid , sulfinpyrazone and phenylbutazone inhibited The following alterations of laboratory tests have been reported during salicylate therapy : Laboratory Tests Effect of Salicylates Thyroid Function Decreased PBI ; increased T3 uptake Urinary Sugar False negative with glucose oxidase ; false positive with Clinitest with high - dose salicylat therapy ( 2 - 5 g qd ) 5 Hydroxyindole Acetic Acid False negative with fluorometric test Acetone , Ketone Bodies False positive FeCl3 in Gerhardt reaction ; red color persists with boiling 17 - OH Corticosteroids False reduced values with > 4 . 8 g qd salicylate Vanilmandelic Acid False reduced values Uric Acid May increase or decrease depending on dose Prothrombin Decreased levels ; slightly increased prothrombin time Pregnancy ( Category C ) - Orally administered salicylic acid has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and monkeys .
It is difficult to extrapolate from oral doses of acetylsalicylic acid used in these studies to topical administration as the oral dose to monkeys may represent 4 times the maximum daily human dose of salicylic acid ( as supplied in one tube , 40 g of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel ) when applied topically over a large body surface .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topically applied salicylic acid is excreted in human milk .
Due to the fact that many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised by physicians when administering Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam to nursing mothers and nursing mothers should certainly not apply Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam to the chest area or any other part of the body with which the nursing child ’ s mouth is likely to come in contact .
Because of the potential for serious advers reactions in nursing infants from the mother ’ s use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
No data are available concerning the potential carcinogenic or reproductive effects of Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam .
It has been shown to lack mutagenic potential in the Ames Salmonella test .
KEEP THIS AND ALL OTHER MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation is possible .
Peeling of the skin may increase as the salicylic acid works to loosen excess keratin .
If excessive burning , stinging or peeling occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Unless otherwise directed by a prescribing physician , Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be applied to the affected area twice a day .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be rubbed into the skin until it is completely absorbed .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam should be shaken vigorously before each application and inverted to administer .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Foam is supplied in a 70 gram or 2 . 5 ounce aerosolized canister bearing the NDC # 42192 - 112 - 70 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Contains flammable materials .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose to temperatures over 120 ° F ( 48 ° C ) even when empty .
NDC 42192 - 112 - 70 SALICYLIC ACID 6 % FOAM Hydrating Topical Foam Rx Only Net wt .
2 . 5 oz ( 70 g ) Acella Pharmaceuticals Dosage and Administration : Apply Salicylic Acid 6 % foam topically to cover affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Shake vigorously before each application and invert can to administer .
Store at room temperature 59 degrees to 77 degrees F ( 15 degrees to 15 degrees C ) See prescribing information for additional details .
Ingredients : Salicylic Acid 6 % , Dimethicone , Ethylparaben , Glycerin , Methylcellulose , Methylparabaen , Phenoxyethanol , Polyoxyl 40 Stearate , Polysorbate 20 , Polysorbate 80 , Povidone , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium citrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , and Trolamine and in propellants Butane and Propane .
Warning : contains flammable materials .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to temperatures over 120 degrees F ( 48 degrees C ) even when empty .
Keep out of reach of children .
Manufactured for Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev 0909v4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
