Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to : • eczema • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • external genital , feminine and anal itching Other uses or the use of the product for more than 7 days should be undertaken only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years : Ask a doctor for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Store at room temperature • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see crimp of tube Inactive Ingredients Purified Water , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Petrolatum , Glyceryl Stearate , Polysorbate 60 , Sorbitan Stearate , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Disodium Edta PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL BUDPAK ANTI - ITCH CREAM Hydrocortisone 1 % NET WT 0 . 5 OZ .
( 14 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
