Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each lozenge ) Purposes Benzocaine 7 . 5 mg Oral pain reliever Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Uses For the temporary relief of occasional • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold • sore throat • sore mouth • minor irritation • pain • pain associated with canker sores Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other ' caine ' anesthetics .
Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
• for teething • in children under 6 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling develops • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older take 2 lozenges ( one immediately after the other ) and allow each lozenge to dissolve slowly in the mouth ; may be repeated every 4 hours as needed , not to exceed 12 lozenges in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor or dentist children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1 lozenge and allow product to dissolve slowly in the mouth ; may be repeated every 4 hours as needed , not to exceed 6 lozenges in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor or dentist children under 6 years of age do not use Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • protect contents from humidity Inactive ingredients FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , flavors , isomalt , purified water , sucralose Questions ?
1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 16 Lozenge Blister Pack Carton NDC 63824 - 744 - 16 READ ALL WARNINGS Cēpacol ® EXTRA STRENGTH # 1 DOCTOR RECOMMENDED † SORE THROAT & COUGH Benzocaine 7 . 5 mg Oral Pain Reliever | Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough Suppressant • Relieves Sore Throat Pain • Quiets Cough • Fast Acting • Maximum Numbing * 16 Lozenges mixed berry * based on amount of benzocaine per adult dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
