Rx only For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % contains clobetasol propionate , USP , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical dermatologic use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Clobetasol propionate is pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 17 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) - , ( 11β , 16β ) - , with the empirical formula C25H32ClFO5 , a molecular weight of 466 . 97 .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate is a white or almost white , odorless , crystalline powder and is insoluble in water .
Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg clobetasol propionate , USP , per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate foam has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The precise mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of topical steroids in the treatment of steroid - responsive dermatoses , in general , is uncertain .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Due to the fact that circulating levels are well below the level of detection , the use of pharmacodynamic endpoints for assessing the systemic exposure of topical corticosteroids is necessary .
They are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
In addition , some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
CLINICAL STUDIES A well - controlled clinical study evaluated 188 subjects with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with one of four treatments : Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % , Vehicle foam , a commercially available clobetasol propionate solution , or Vehicle solution .
The efficacy of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % in treating scalp psoriasis at the end of the 2 weeks ' treatment was superior to that of Vehicle ( foam and solution ) , and was comparable to that of the commercially available Scalp Application .
See Table 1 below .
Table 1 : Efficacy results from a controlled clinical trial in scalp psoriasis Clobetasol Propionate Foam , 0 . 05 % n ( % ) Vehicle Foam n ( % ) Total number of subjects 62 31 Subjects with Treatment Success 39 ( 63 ) 1 ( 3 ) Subjects with Parameter Clear at Endpoint ( Scalp Psoriasis ) Scaling - Clear at Endpoint 42 ( 68 ) 3 ( 10 ) Erythema - Clear at Endpoint 27 ( 44 ) 2 ( 6 ) Plaque Thickness - Clear at Endpoint 41 ( 66 ) 3 ( 10 ) Another well - controlled clinical study evaluated 279 subjects with mild to moderate plaque - type psoriasis ( mean Body Surface Area at baseline was 6 . 7 % with a range from 1 % to 20 % ) of non - scalp regions .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % or Vehicle foam .
The face and intertriginous areas were excluded from treatment .
The efficacy of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % in treating non - scalp psoriasis at the end of 2 weeks ' treatment was superior to that of Vehicle foam .
See Table 2 below .
Table 2 : Efficacy results from a controlled clinical trial in non - scalp psoriasis Clobetasol Propionate Foam , 0 . 05 % n ( % ) Vehicle Foam n ( % ) Total number of subjects 139 140 Subjects with Treatment Success 39 ( 28 ) 4 ( 3 ) Physician ' s Static Global Assessment - Clear or Almost Clear at Endpoint 94 ( 68 ) 30 ( 21 ) Scaling - Clear or Almost Clear at Endpoint 101 ( 73 ) 42 ( 30 ) Erythema - Clear or Almost Clear at Endpoint 88 ( 63 ) 35 ( 25 ) Plaque Thickness - Clear at Endpoint 44 ( 32 ) 5 ( 4 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % is a super - potent topical corticosteroid indicated for short - term topical treatment of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of moderate to severe corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses of the scalp , and for short - term topical treatment of mild to moderate plaque - type psoriasis on non - scalp regions excluding the face and intertriginous areas .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
In a controlled pharmacokinetic study , some subjects experienced reversible suppression of the adrenals following 14 days of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % therapy ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Use in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to clobetasol propionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Clobetasol propionate is a super - potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the adrenals at 7 . 0 g of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % per day .
Lesser amounts of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % were not studied .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has caused reversible adrenal suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of adrenal suppression .
If adrenal suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use .
If irritation develops , clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than by noting a clinical exacerbation , as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for adrenal suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate .
Clobetasol propionate was non - mutagenic in three different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate at dosage levels up to 0 . 05 mg / kg per day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate has not been tested for teratogenicity by the topical route ; however , it is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously , it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and the mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
Teratogenicity studies in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and teratogenicity at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 1 . 4 and 0 . 04 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % based on body surface area comparisons .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In rabbits , clobetasol propionate was teratogenic at doses of 0 . 003 and 0 . 01 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 02 and 0 . 05 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % based on body surface area comparisons .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of clobetasol propionate in pregnant women .
Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % in pediatric patients have not been established ; therefore , use in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of adrenal suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients are therefore at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
Adrenal suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a controlled pharmacokinetic study , 5 of 13 subjects experienced reversible suppression of the adrenals at any time during the 14 days of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % therapy to at least 20 % of the body surface area .
Of the 13 subjects studied , 1 of 9 with psoriasis were suppressed after 14 days and all 4 of the subjects with atopic dermatitis had abnormal cortisol levels indicative of adrenal suppression at some time after starting therapy with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % .
See Table 3 below .
Table 3 : Subjects with reversible HPA axis suppression at any time during treatmentDermatosis Clobetasol Propionate Foam , 0 . 05 % Psoriasis 1 of 9 Atopic Dermatitis 4 of 4 Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible adrenal suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
See PRECAUTIONS .
In a controlled clinical trial ( 188 subjects ) with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % in subjects with psoriasis of the scalp , there were no localized scalp adverse reactions reported in the clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % treated subjects .
In two controlled clinical trials ( 360 subjects ) with clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % in subjects with psoriasis of non - scalp regions , localized adverse events that occurred in the clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % treated subjects included application site burning ( 10 % ) , application site dryness ( < 1 % ) , and other application site reactions ( 4 % ) .
In larger controlled trials with other clobetasol propionate formulations , the most frequently reported local adverse reactions have included burning , stinging , irritation , pruritus , erythema , folliculitis , cracking and fissuring of the skin , numbness of the fingers , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia ( all less than 2 % ) .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , but they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids such as clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
See PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note : For proper dispensing of foam , hold the can upside down and depress the actuator .
Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should be applied to the affected area twice daily , once in the morning and once at night .
Invert the can and dispense a small amount of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % ( up to a maximum of a golf - ball - size dollop or one and a half capfuls ) into the cap of the can , onto a saucer or other cool surface , or to the lesion , taking care to avoid contact with the eyes .
Dispensing directly onto hands is not recommended ( unless the hands are the affected area ) , as the foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin .
When applying clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % to a hair - bearing area , move the hair away from the affected area so that the foam can be applied to each affected area .
Pick up small amounts with fingertips and gently massage into affected area until the foam disappears .
Repeat until entire affected area is treated .
Apply the smallest amount possible that sufficiently covers the affected area ( s ) .
No more than one and a half capfuls of foam should be used at each application .
Do not apply to face or intertriginous areas .
Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % is a super - high - potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 g / week should not be used .
Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Unless directed by a physician , clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should not be used with occlusive dressings .
Instructions for applying clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % Apply clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % twice a day , once in the morning and once at night .
Apply only enough to cover the affected areas .
Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % should not be applied to the groin , or other skin fold areas .
To use clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Before applying clobestasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % for the first time , break the tiny plastic piece at the base of the can ' s rim by gently pushing back ( away from the piece ) on the nozzle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Turn the can upside down .
Push the button to squirt a small amount of clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % into the cap of the can , onto a saucer or other cool surface , or your affected skin area .
This amount should be no more than 1 1 / 2 capfuls , about the size of a golf ball .
Do not squirt clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % directly onto your hands ( unless your hands are the affected areas ) , because the foam will begin to melt right away on contact with your warm skin .
If your fingers are warm , rinse them in cold water first .
( Be sure to dry them thoroughly before handling the foam . )
If the can seems warm or the foam seems runny , run the can under cold water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using your fingertips , gently massage clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % into the affected areas until the foam disappears .
If you are treating areas with hair such as the scalp , move any hair away so that the foam can be applied directly to the affected areas .
Repeat the process until the affected areas are treated .
Keep the foam away from your eyes , as it will sting and may cause eye problems if there is frequent contact with your eyes .
If the foam gets your eyes , rinse them well with cold water right away .
If the stinging continues , contact your doctor right away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash your hands after apply clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % .
Throw away any of the unused medicine that you squirted out of the can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 50 g ( NDC 54868 - 6291 - 0 ) aluminum cans .
Store at controlled room temperature 68 - 77ºF ( 20 - 25ºC ) .
WARNING FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Keep out of reach of children .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) .
STIEFEL ® Manufactured for Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GlaxoSmithKline company RTP , NC 27709 USA PRASCO ® Distributed by Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA October 2009 304031 P / N : 129168 © 2009 Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GlaxoSmithKline company Printed in : US October 2009 Relabeling " Additional barcode label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Principal Display Panel NDC 54868 - 6291 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol Propionate Foam , 0 . 05 % Rx Only Net Wt .
50 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Invert can and then press firmly to dispense Dosage : Use only as prescribed by your physician .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Warning : FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 oF ( 49 oC ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 68 o – 77 oF ( 20 o – 25 oC ) .
CFC FREE Description : Clobetasol propionate foam , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg clobetasol propionate , USP , per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
