Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide ( stabilized ) 3 % Purpose First Aid Antiseptic / Oral Debriding Agent Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in removal of phlegm , mucous , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions First Aid Antiseptic • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of product on the area 1 to 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first Oral Debriding Agent ( oral rinse ) : Adults and children 2 years of age & over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other Information • Keep tightly closed in a cool dark place • Do not shake bottle • Hold away from face when opening Inactive Ingredient Purified Water PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label REF : P903016 NDC 43128 - 001 - 16 Hydrogen Peroxide 3 % USP Tamper evident cap for your protection .
If ring - band is detached from cap or missing do not use .
16 oz .
( 473 mL ) Made in USA for : NDC , Inc . , 407 New Sanford Rd .
La Vergne , TN 37086 www . ProAdvantagebyNDC . com Pro ADVANTAGE ® by NDC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
