Rx only Oral Antihypertensive Tablets of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 and 0 . 3 mg Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Clonidine hydrochloride , USP is a centrally acting alpha - agonist hypotensive agent available as tablets for oral administration in three dosage strengths : 0 . 1 mg , 0 . 2 mg and 0 . 3 mg .
The 0 . 1 mg tablet is equivalent to 0 . 087 mg of the free base .
The inactive ingredients are dibasic calcium phosphate , FD & C Yellow # 6 aluminum lake , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate .
The clonidine hydrochloride 0 . 1 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue # 1 aluminum lake and FD & C Red # 40 aluminum lake .
Clonidine hydrochloride is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound .
The chemical name is 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenylamino ) - 2 - imidazoline hydrochloride .
The following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine hydrochloride is an odorless , bitter , white , crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
Clonidine hydrochloride tablets act relatively rapidly .
The patient ' s blood pressure declines within 30 to 60 minutes after an oral dose , the maximum decrease occurring within 2 to 4 hours .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact ; therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
Acute studies with clonidine hydrochloride in humans have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % to 20 % ) of cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance : at a 45 ° tilt there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long - term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic response to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a re - evaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates growth hormone release in both children and adults , but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of clonidine is dose - proportional in the range of 100 to 600 mcg .
The absolute bioavailability of clonidine on oral administration is 70 % to 80 % .
Peak plasma clonidine levels are attained in approximately 1 to 3 hours .
Following intravenous administration , clonidine displays biphasic disposition with a distribution half - life of about 20 minutes and an elimination half - life ranging from 12 to 16 hours .
The half - life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Clonidine crosses the placental barrier .
It has been shown to cross the blood - brain barrier in rats .
Following oral administration about 40 % to 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
Neither food nor the race of the patient influences the pharmacokinetics of clonidine .
The antihypertensive effect is reached at plasma concentrations between about 0 . 2 and 2 . 0 ng / mL in patients with normal excretory function .
A further rise in the plasma levels will not enhance the antihypertensive effect .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
Clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Withdrawal Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride tablets , the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets .
Because children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting , they may be particularly susceptible to hypertensive episodes resulting from abrupt inability to take medication .
PRECAUTIONS General In patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to clonidine transdermal system , continuation of clonidine transdermal system or substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride therapy may be associated with the development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction to clonidine transdermal system , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
The sympatholytic action of clonidine may worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
There are post - marketing reports of patients with conduction abnormalities and / or taking other sympatholytic drugs who developed severe bradycardia requiring IV atropine , IV isoproterenol and temporary cardiac pacing while taking clonidine .
In hypertension caused by pheochromocytoma , no therapeutic effect of clonidine hydrochloride tablets can be expected .
Perioperative Use Administration of clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP should be continued to within four hours of surgery and resumed as soon as possible thereafter .
Blood pressure should be carefully monitored during surgery and additional measures to control blood pressure should be available if required .
Information for Patients Patients should be cautioned against interruption of clonidine hydrochloride tablets therapy without their physician ' s advice .
Since patients may experience a possible sedative effect , dizziness , or accommodation disorder with use of clonidine , caution patients about engaging in activities such as driving a vehicle or operating appliances or machinery .
Also , inform patients that this sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
Patients who wear contact lenses should be cautioned that treatment with clonidine hydrochloride tablets may cause dryness of eyes .
Drug Interactions Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
If a patient receiving clonidine hydrochloride is also taking tricyclic antidepressants , the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced , necessitating an increase in the clonidine dose .
If a patient receiving clonidine is also taking neuroleptics , orthostatic regulation disturbances ( e . g . , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , fatigue ) may be induced or exacerbated .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction , e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , and beta - blockers .
Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concomitantly with diltiazem or verapamil .
Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats ( see Toxicology ) .
Based on observations in patients in a state of alcoholic delirium it has been suggested that high intravenous doses of clonidine may increase the arrhythmogenic potential ( QT - prolongation , ventricular fibrillation ) of high intravenous doses of haloperidol .
Causal relationship and relevance for clonidine oral tablets have not been established .
Toxicology In several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride , a dose - dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer .
Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid .
In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats , eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before , and periodically after , the start of clonidine therapy .
In 353 of these 908 patients , the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer .
Except for some dryness of the eyes , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and , according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle , retinal function was unchanged .
In combination with amitriptyline , clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic dietary administration of clonidine was not carcinogenic to rats ( 132 weeks ) or mice ( 78 weeks ) dosed , respectively , at up to 46 or 70 times the maximum recommended daily human dose as mg / kg ( 9 or 6 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by clonidine doses as high as 150 mcg / kg ( approximately 3 times MRDHD ) .
In a separate experiment , fertility of female rats appeared to be affected at dose levels of 500 to 2000 mcg / kg ( 10 to 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 2 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRDHD ) of clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP produced no evidence of a teratogenic or embryotoxic potential in rabbits .
In rats , however , doses as low as ⅓ the oral MRDHD ( 1 / 15 the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) of clonidine were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same time or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the oral MRDHD ) when the dams were treated on gestation days 6 to 15 .
Increases in resorption were observed at much higher dose levels ( 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 4 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in mice and rats treated on gestation days 1 to 14 ( lowest dose employed in the study was 500 mcg / kg ) .
No adequate , well - controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Clonidine crosses the placental barrier ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers As clonidine hydrochloride is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clonidine hydrochloride tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established in adequate and well - controlled trials ( see WARNINGS , Withdrawal ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which appear to be dose - related ) are dry mouth , occurring in about 40 of 100 patients ; drowsiness , about 33 in 100 ; dizziness , about 16 in 100 ; constipation and sedation , each about 10 in 100 .
The following less frequent adverse experiences have also been reported in patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride tablets , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established .
Body as a Whole : Fatigue , fever , headache , pallor , weakness , and withdrawal syndrome .
Also reported were a weakly positive Coombs ’ test and increased sensitivity to alcohol .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , congestive heart failure , electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , sinus node arrest , junctional bradycardia , high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) , orthostatic symptoms , palpitations , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , syncope , and tachycardia .
Cases of sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System : Agitation , anxiety , delirium , delusional perception , hallucinations ( including visual and auditory ) , insomnia , mental depression , nervousness , other behavioral changes , paresthesia , restlessness , sleep disorder , and vivid dreams or nightmares .
Dermatological : Alopecia , angioneurotic edema , hives , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , anorexia , constipation , hepatitis , malaise , mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests , nausea , parotitis , pseudo - obstruction ( including colonic pseudo - obstruction ) , salivary gland pain , and vomiting .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity , difficulty in micturition , erectile dysfunction , loss of libido , nocturia , and urinary retention .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Gynecomastia , transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase , and weight gain .
Musculoskeletal : Leg cramps and muscle or joint pain .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa .
Ophthalmological : Accommodation disorder , blurred vision , burning of the eyes , decreased lacrimation , and dryness of eyes .
OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Clonidine overdosage may result in the rapid development of CNS depression ; therefore , induction of vomiting with ipecac syrup is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated following recent and / or large ingestions .
Administration of activated charcoal and / or a cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date involved a 28 - year - old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semicoma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / mL after 1 hour , 190 ng / mL after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / mL after 2 hours , and 120 ng / mL after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The dose of clonidine hydrochloride tablets , USP must be adjusted according to the patient ’ s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a general guide to its administration .
Initial Dose 0 . 1 mg tablet twice daily ( morning and bedtime ) .
Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Maintenance Dose Further increments of 0 . 1 mg per day may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved .
Taking the larger portion of the oral daily dose at bedtime may minimize transient adjustment effects of dry mouth and drowsiness .
The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 6 mg per day given in divided doses .
Studies have indicated that 2 . 4 mg is the maximum effective daily dose , but doses as high as this have rarely been employed .
Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Patients should be carefully monitored .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED Clonidine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP are available as : 0 . 2 mg : orange , oval , scored , convex , debossed " 25 " bisect " 42 " on one side and debossed " V " on the reverse side , supplied as follows : • Bottles of 30 : NDC 33261 - 0623 - 30 • Bottles of 60 : NDC 33261 - 0623 - 60 • Bottles of 90 : NDC 33261 - 0623 - 90 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Manufactured for : QUALITEST PHARMACEUTICALS Huntsville , AL 35811 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 8181999 R6 / 12 - R6 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
