Rx only DESCRIPTION Doxercalciferol , the active ingredient in Doxercalciferol Injection , is a synthetic vitamin D2 analog that undergoes metabolic activation in vivo to form 1 a , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D2 ( 1 a , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 ) , a naturally occurring , biologically active form of vitamin D2 .
Doxercalciferol injection is available as a sterile , clear , colorless aqueous solution for intravenous injection .
Doxercalciferol single - use injection is supplied in a 2 mL amber glass ampul containing 4 mcg / 2 mL or 2 mcg / mL .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of solution contains doxercalciferol , 2 mcg ; Polysorbate 20 , 4 mg ; sodium chloride , 1 . 5 mg ; sodium ascorbate , 10 mg ; sodium phosphate , dibasic , anhydrous 7 . 6 mg ; sodium dihydrogen phosphate , dihydrate , 2 . 34 mg ; and disodium edetate , 1 . 1 mg .
Doxercalciferol is a colorless crystalline compound with a calculated molecular weight of 412 . 66 and a molecular formula of C28H44O2 .
It is soluble in oils and organic solvents , but is relatively insoluble in water .
Chemically , doxercalciferol is ( 1α , 3β , 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E ) - 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1 , 3 - diol and has the structural formula presented in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Chemical Structure of Doxercalciferol [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other names frequently used for doxercalciferol are 1α - hydroxyvitamin D2 , 1α - OH - D2 , and 1α - hydroxyergocalciferol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vitamin D levels in humans depend on two sources : ( 1 ) exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun for conversion of 7 - dehydrocholesterol in the skin to vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) and ( 2 ) dietary intake of either vitamin D2 ( ergocalciferol ) or vitamin D3 .
Vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 must be metabolically activated in the liver and kidney before becoming fully active on target tissues .
The initial step in the activation process is the introduction of a hydroxyl group in the side chain at C - 25 by the hepatic enzyme , CYP 27 ( a vitamin D - 25 - hydroxylase ) .
The products of this reaction are 25 - ( OH ) D2 and 25 - ( OH ) D3 , respectively .
Further hydroxylation of these metabolites occurs in the mitochondria of kidney tissue , catalyzed by renal 25 - hydroxyvitamin D - 1 - α - hydroxylase to produce 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 , the primary biologically active form of vitamin D2 , and 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D3 ( calcitriol ) , the biologically active form of vitamin D3 .
Mechanism of Action Calcitriol ( 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D3 ) and 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 regulate blood calcium at levels required for essential body functions .
Specifically , the biologically active vitamin D metabolites control the intestinal absorption of dietary calcium , the tubular reabsorption of calcium by the kidney and , in conjunction with parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) , the mobilization of calcium from the skeleton .
They act directly on bone cells ( osteoblasts ) to stimulate skeletal growth , and on the parathyroid glands to suppress PTH synthesis and secretion .
These functions are mediated by the interaction of these biologically active metabolites with specific receptor proteins in the various target tissues .
In uremic patients , deficient production of biologically active vitamin D metabolites ( due to lack of or insufficient 25 - hydroxyvitamin D - 1 - alpha - hydroxylase activity ) leads to secondary hyperparathyroidism , which contributes to the development of metabolic bone disease in patients with renal failure .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After intravenous administration , doxercalciferol is activated by CYP 27 in the liver to form 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 ( major metabolite ) and 1α , 24 - dihydroxyvitamin D2 ( minor metabolite ) .
Activation of doxercalciferol does not require the involvement of the kidneys .
Peak blood levels of 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 are reached at 8 + / - 5 . 9 hours ( mean + / - SD ) after a single intravenous dose of 5 mcg of doxercalciferol .
The mean elimination half - life of 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 after an oral dose is approximately 32 to 37 hours with a range of up to 96 hours .
The mean elimination half - life in patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) and in healthy volunteers appears to be similar following an oral dose .
Hemodialysis causes a temporary increase in 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 mean concentrations presumably due to volume contraction .
1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 is not removed from blood during hemodialysis .
Clinical Studies The safety and effectiveness of doxercalciferol injection were evaluated in two open - label , single - arm , multi - centered clinical studies ( Study C and Study D ) in a total of 70 patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis ( Stage 5 CKD ) .
Patients in Study C were an average age of 54 years ( range : 23 to 73 ) , were 50 % male , and were 61 % African - American , 25 % Caucasian , and 14 % Hispanic , and had been on hemodialysis for an average of 65 months .
Patients in Study D were an average age of 51 years ( range : 28 to 76 ) , were 48 % male , and 100 % African - American and had been on hemodialysis for an average of 61 months .
This group of 70 of the 138 patients who had been treated with doxercalciferol capsules in prior clinical studies ( Study A and Study B ) received doxercalciferol injection in an open - label fashion for 12 weeks following an 8 - week washout ( control ) period .
Dosing of doxercalciferol injection was initiated at the rate of 4 mcg administered at the end of each dialysis session ( 3 times weekly ) for a total of 12 mcg per week .
The dosage of doxercalciferol was adjusted in an attempt to achieve iPTH levels within a targeted range of 150 to 300 pg / mL .
The dosage was increased by 2 mcg per dialysis session after 8 weeks of treatment if the iPTH levels remained above 300 pg / mL and were greater than 50 % of baseline levels .
The maximum dosage was limited to 18 mcg per week .
If at any time during the trial iPTH fell below 150 pg / mL , doxercalciferol injection was immediately suspended and restarted at a lower dosage the following week .
Results Fifty - two of the 70 patients who were treated with doxercalciferol injection achieved iPTH levels ≤ 300 pg / mL .
Forty - one of these patients exhibited plasma iPTH levels ≤ 300 pg / mL on at least three occasions .
Thirty - six patients had plasma iPTH levels < 150 pg / mL on at least one occasion during study participation .
Mean weekly doses in Study C ranged from 8 . 9 mcg to 12 . 5 mcg .
In Study D , the mean weekly doses ranged from 9 . 1 mcg to 11 . 6 mcg .
Decreases in plasma iPTH from baseline values were calculated using as baseline the average of the last three values obtained during the 8 - week washout period and are displayed in the table below .
Plasma iPTH levels were measured weekly during the 12 - week study .
Table 1 : iPTH Summary Data for Patients Receiving Doxercalciferol InjectioniPTH Level Study C ( n = 28 ) Study D ( n = 42 ) Combined Protocols ( n = 70 ) Baseline ( Mean of Weeks - 2 , - 1 and 0 ) Mean ( SE ) 698 ( 60 ) 762 ( 65 ) 736 ( 46 ) Median 562 648 634 On - treatment ( Week 12 [ 1 ] ) Mean ( SE ) 406 ( 63 ) 426 ( 60 ) 418 ( 43 ) Median 311 292 292 Change from Baseline [ 2 ] Mean ( SE ) - 292 ( 55 ) - 336 ( 41 ) - 318 ( 33 ) Median - 274 - 315 - 304 P - value [ 3 ] 0 . 004 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 [ 1 ] Values were carried forward for the two patients on study for 10 weeks [ 2 ] Treatment iPTH minus baseline iPTH [ 3 ] Wilcoxon one - sample test In both studies , iPTH levels increased progressively and significantly in 62 . 9 % of patients during the 8 - week washout ( control ) period during which no vitamin D derivatives were administered .
In contrast , doxercalciferol injection treatment resulted in a clinically significant reduction ( at least 30 % ) from baseline in mean iPTH levels during the 12 - week open - label treatment period in more than 92 % of the 70 treated patients .
Table 2 shows the numbers of patients who achieved iPTH levels below 300 pg / mL on one , two , or three or more non - consecutive occasions during the 12 - week treatment period .
Thirty - seven of 70 patients ( 53 % ) had plasma iPTH levels within the targeted range ( 150 to 300 pg / mL ) during Weeks 10 to 12 .
Table 2 : Number of Times iPTH ≤ 300 pg / mL 1 2 ≥ 3 Study C 3 / 28 0 / 28 16 / 28 Study D 4 / 42 4 / 42 25 / 42 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxercalciferol injection is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with chronic kidney disease on dialysis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxercalciferol injection should not be given to patients with a tendency towards hypercalcemia or current evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
Doxercalciferol injection is contraindicated in patients with previous hypersensitivity to doxercalciferol or any of its ingredients ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Overdosage of any form of vitamin D , including doxercalciferol injection is dangerous ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Progressive hypercalcemia due to overdosage of vitamin D and its metabolites may be so severe as to require emergency attention .
Acute hypercalcemia may exacerbate tendencies for cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the action of digitalis drugs .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
The serum calcium times serum phosphorus ( Ca X P ) product should be maintained at < 55 mg2 / dL2 in patients with chronic kidney disease .
Radiographic evaluation of suspect anatomical regions may be useful in the early detection of this condition .
Since doxercalciferol is a precursor for 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 , a potent metabolite of vitamin D2 , pharmacologic doses of vitamin D and its derivatives should be withheld during doxercalciferol injection treatment to avoid possible additive effects and hypercalcemia .
Oral calcium - based or other non - aluminum - containing phosphate binders and a low phosphate diet should be used to control serum phosphorus levels in patients undergoing dialysis .
Uncontrolled serum phosphorus exacerbates secondary hyperparathyroidism and can lessen the effectiveness of doxercalciferol injection in reducing blood PTH levels .
If hypercalcemia occurs after initiating doxercalciferol injection therapy , the dose of doxercalciferol injection and / or calcium - containing phosphate binders should be decreased .
If hyperphosphatemia occurs after initiating doxercalciferol injection , the dose of doxercalciferol injection should be decreased and / or the dose of phosphate binders increased .
( See dosing recommendations for doxercalciferol injection under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Magnesium - containing antacids and doxercalciferol injection should not be used concomitantly in patients on chronic renal dialysis because such use may lead to the development of hypermagnesemia .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including fatal outcome , have been reported post marketing in patients on hemodialysis following administration of doxercalciferol injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis with symptoms of angioedema ( involving face , lips , tongue and airways ) , hypotension , unresponsiveness , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , and cardiopulmonary arrest .
These reactions may occur separately or together .
Monitor patients receiving doxercalciferol injection upon initiation of treatment for hypersensitivity reactions .
Should a hypersensitivity reaction occur , discontinue doxercalciferol , monitor and treat if indicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General The principal adverse effects of treatment with doxercalciferol injection are hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatemia , and oversuppression of PTH ( iPTH less than 150 pg / mL ) .
Prolonged hypercalcemia can lead to calcification of soft tissues , including the heart and arteries , and hyperphosphatemia can exacerbate hyperparathyroidism .
Oversuppression of PTH may lead to adynamic bone syndrome .
All of these potential adverse effects should be managed by regular patient monitoring and appropriate dosage adjustments .
During treatment with doxercalciferol injection , patients usually require dose titration , as well as adjustment in co - therapy ( i . e . , dietary phosphate binders ) in order to maximize PTH suppression while maintaining serum calcium and phosphorus levels within prescribed ranges .
In two open - label , single - arm , multi - centered studies , the incidence of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia increased during therapy with doxercalciferol injection ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The observed increases during doxercalciferol injection treatment underscore the importance of regular safety monitoring of serum calcium and phosphorus levels throughout treatment .
Patients with higher pre - treatment serum levels of calcium ( > 10 . 5 mg / dL ) or phosphorus ( > 6 . 9 mg / dL ) were more likely to experience hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia .
Therefore , doxercalciferol injection should not be given to patients with a recent history of hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia , or evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
Table 3 : Incidence Rates of Hypercalcemia and Hyperphosphatemia in Two Phase 3 Studies with Doxercalciferol InjectionStudy Hypercalcemia ( per 100 patient weeks ) Hyperphosphatemia ( per 100 patient weeks ) Washout ( Off Treatment ) Open - Label ( Treatment ) Washout ( Off Treatment ) Open - Label ( Treatment ) Study C 0 . 9 0 . 9 0 . 9 2 . 4 Study D 0 . 3 1 1 . 2 3 . 7 Information for the Patient The patient , spouse , or guardian should be informed about adherence to instructions about diet , calcium supplementation , and avoidance of the use of nonprescription drugs without prior approval from the patient ’ s physician .
Patients should also be carefully informed about the symptoms of hypercalcemia ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Laboratory Tests Serum levels of iPTH , calcium , and phosphorus should be determined prior to initiation of doxercalciferol injection treatment .
During the early phase of treatment ( i . e . , first 12 weeks ) , serum iPTH , calcium , and phosphorus levels should be determined weekly .
For dialysis patients in general , serum or plasma iPTH and serum calcium , phosphorus , and alkaline phosphatase should be determined periodically .
Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted .
Magnesium - containing antacids and doxercalciferol should not be used concomitantly because such use may lead to the development of hypermagnesemia ( see WARNINGS ) .
Although not examined specifically , enzyme inducers ( such as glutethimide and phenobarbital ) may affect the 25 - hydroxylation of doxercalciferol and may necessitate dosage adjustments .
Cytochrome P450 inhibitors ( such as ketoconazole and erythromycin ) may inhibit the 25 - hydroxylation of doxercalciferol .
Hence , formation of the active doxercalciferol moiety may be hindered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of doxercalciferol have not been conducted .
No evidence of genetic toxicity was observed in an in vitro bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Ames test ) or a mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay .
Doxercalciferol caused structural chromatid and chromosome aberrations in an in vitro human lymphocyte clastogenicity assay with metabolic activation .
However , doxercalciferol was negative in an in vivo mouse micronucleus clastogenicity assay .
Doxercalciferol had no effect on male or female fertility in rats at oral doses up to 2 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 60 mcg / wk based on mcg / m2 body surface area ) .
Use in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits , at doses up to 20 mcg / kg / day and 0 . 1 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 25 times and less than the maximum recommended human oral dose of 60 mcg / week based on mcg / m2 body surface area , respectively ) have revealed no teratogenic or fetotoxic effects due to doxercalciferol .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether doxercalciferol is excreted in human milk .
Because other vitamin D derivatives are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from doxercalciferol , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of doxercalciferol injection in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the 70 patients treated with doxercalciferol injection in the two Phase 3 clinical studies , 12 patients were 65 years or over .
In these studies , no overall differences in efficacy or safety were observed between patients 65 years or older and younger patients .
Hepatic Insufficiency Studies examining the influence of hepatic insufficiency on the metabolism of doxercalciferol were inconclusive .
Since patients with hepatic insufficiency may not metabolize doxercalciferol appropriately , the drug should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function .
More frequent monitoring of iPTH , calcium , and phosphorus levels should be done in such individuals .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Doxercalciferol injection has been evaluated for safety in 70 patients with chronic renal disease on hemodialysis ( who had been previously treated with oral doxercalciferol ) from two 12 - week , open - label , single - arm , multi - centered studies .
( Dosage titrated to achieve target plasma iPTH levels , see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies . )
Because there was no placebo group included in the studies of doxercalciferol injection , Table 4 provides the adverse event incidence rates from placebo - controlled studies of oral doxercalciferol .
Table 4 : Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 2 % of Doxercalciferol Injection Treated Patients and More Frequently than Placebo During the Double - Blind Phase of Two Clinical StudiesAdverse Event Doxercalciferol Injection ( n = 61 ) % Placebo ( n = 61 ) % Body as a Whole Abscess 3 . 3 0 . 0 Headache 27 . 9 18 . 0 Malaise 27 . 9 19 . 7 Cardiovascular System Bradycardia 6 . 6 4 . 9 Digestive System Anorexia 4 . 9 3 . 3 Constipation 3 . 3 3 . 3 Dyspepsia 4 . 9 1 . 6 Nausea / Vomiting 21 . 3 19 . 7 Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 4 . 9 0 . 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Edema 34 . 4 21 . 3 Weight increase 4 . 9 0 . 0 Nervous System Dizziness 11 . 5 9 . 8 Sleep Disorder 3 . 3 0 . 0 Respiratory System Dyspnea 11 . 5 6 . 6 Skin Pruritus 8 . 2 6 . 6 A patient who reported the same medical term more than once was counted only once for that medical term .
Potential adverse effects of doxercalciferol injection are , in general , similar to those encountered with excessive vitamin D intake .
The early and late signs and symptoms of vitamin D intoxication associated with hypercalcemia include : Early Weakness , headache , somnolence , nausea , vomiting , dry mouth , constipation , muscle pain , bone pain , metallic taste , and anorexia .
Late Polyuria , polydipsia , anorexia , weight loss , nocturia , conjunctivitis ( calcific ) , pancreatitis , photophobia , rhinorrhea , pruritus , hyperthermia , decreased libido , elevated blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , albuminuria , hypercholesterolemia , elevated serum aspartate transaminase ( AST ) and alanine transaminase ( ALT ) , ectopic calcification , hypertension , cardiac arrhythmias , sensory disturbances , dehydration , apathy , arrested growth , urinary tract infections , and , rarely , overt psychosis .
Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity reactions , including fatal outcome , have been reported in patients on hemodialysis following administration of doxercalciferol injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis with symptoms of angioedema ( involving face , lips , tongue and airways ) , hypotension , unresponsiveness , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , cardiopulmonary arrest , pruritus and skin burning sensation ( see WARNINGS ) .
These reactions may occur separately or together .
OVERDOSAGE Administration of doxercalciferol injection to patients in excess doses can cause hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , hyperphosphatemia , and over - suppression of PTH secretion leading in certain cases to adynamic bone disease .
High intake of calcium and phosphate concomitant with doxercalciferol injection may lead to similar abnormalities .
High levels of calcium in the dialysate bath may contribute to hypercalcemia .
Treatment of Hypercalcemia and Overdosage General treatment of hypercalcemia ( greater than 1 mg / dL above the upper limit of the normal range ) consists of immediate suspension of doxercalciferol injection therapy , institution of a low calcium diet , and withdrawal of calcium supplements .
Serum calcium levels should be determined at least weekly until normocalcemia ensues .
Hypercalcemia usually resolves in 2 to 7 days .
When serum calcium levels have returned to within normal limits , doxercalciferol injection therapy may be reinstituted at a dose that is at least 1 mcg lower than prior therapy .
Serum calcium levels should be obtained weekly after all dosage changes and during subsequent dosage titration .
Persistent or markedly elevated serum calcium levels may be corrected by dialysis against a reduced calcium or calcium - free dialysate .
Treatment of Accidental Overdosage of Doxercalciferol Injection The treatment of acute accidental overdosage of doxercalciferol injection should consist of general supportive measures .
Serial serum electrolyte determinations ( especially calcium ) , rate of urinary calcium excretion , and assessment of electrocardiographic abnormalities due to hypercalcemia should be obtained .
Such monitoring is critical in patients receiving digitalis .
Discontinuation of supplemental calcium and institution of a low calcium diet are also indicated in accidental overdosage .
If persistent and markedly elevated serum calcium levels occur , treatment with standard medical care should be followed , as needed .
Based on similarities between doxercalciferol and its active metabolite , 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 , it is expected that doxercalciferol is not removed from the blood by dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Administration : For intravenous use only .
The optimal dose of doxercalciferol injection must be carefully determined for each patient .
The recommended initial dose of doxercalciferol injection is 4 mcg administered intravenously as a bolus dose 3 times weekly at the end of dialysis ( approximately every other day ) .
The initial dose should be adjusted , as needed , in order to lower blood iPTH into the range of 150 to 300 pg / mL .
The dose may be increased at 8 - week intervals by 1 mcg to 2 mcg if iPTH is not lowered by 50 % and fails to reach the target range .
Dosages higher than 18 mcg weekly have not been studied .
Drug administration should be suspended if iPTH falls below 100 pg / mL and restarted one week later at a dose that is at least 1 mcg lower than the last administered dose .
During titration , iPTH , serum calcium , and serum phosphorus levels should be obtained weekly .
If hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatemia , or a serum calcium times phosphorus product greater than 55 mg2 / dL2 is noted , the dose of doxercalciferol injection should be decreased or suspended and / or the dose of phosphate binders should be appropriately adjusted .
If suspended , the drug should be restarted at a dose that is 1 mcg lower .
Dosing must be individualized and based on iPTH levels with monitoring of serum calcium and serum phosphorus levels .
Table 5 presents a suggested approach in dose titration : Table 5 : Initial DosingiPTH Level Doxercalciferol Injection Dose > 400 pg / mL 4 mcg 3 times per week at the end of dialysis , or approximately every other day Dose Titration iPTH Level Doxercalciferol Injection Dose Decreased by < 50 % and above 300 pg / mL Increase by 1 mcg to 2 mcg at 8 - week intervals as necessary Decreased by > 50 % and above 300 pg / mL Maintain 150 to 300 pg / mL Maintain < 100 pg / mL Suspend for one week , then resume at a dose that is at least 1 mcg lower HOW SUPPLIED Doxercalciferol Injection is available in the following package : 4 mcg / 2 mL ( 2 mcg / mL ) , 2 mL pre - scored amber ampuls packaged in 25 s ( NDC 0641 - 6154 - 25 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : HIKMA FARMACÊUTICA ( PORTUGAL ) , S . A . Estrada do Rio da Mό , 8 , 8 A e 8 B – Fervença – 2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT , PORTUGAL Distributed by : WEST - WARD A Hikma Company Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA PIN349 - WES / 2 Revised July 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container NDC 0641 - 6154 - 01 2 mL Ampul Doxercalciferol Injection Rx only 4 mcg / 2 mL ( 2 mcg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only Protect From Light Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 0641 - 6154 - 25 Rx only Doxercalciferol Injection 4 mcg / 2 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Only Protect From Light Discard Unused Portion 25 x 2 mL Ampuls CONTENTS Active Ingredient : Doxercalciferol , 0 . 0002 % Inactive ingredients : Polysorbate 20 , 0 . 4 % ; Sodium Chloride , 0 . 15 % ; Sodium Ascorbate , 1 . 0 % ; Sodium Phosphate , Dibasic , Anhydrous , 0 . 76 % ; Sodium Dihydrogen Phosphate , Dihydrate , 0 . 234 % ; Edetate , Disodium , Dihydrate , 0 . 11 % ; Water for Injection , 97 . 35 % Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT : Keep covered in carton until time of use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
