WARNING : SERIOUS PSYCHIATRIC AND BEHAVIORAL REACTIONS • Serious or life - threatening psychiatric and behavioral adverse reactions including aggression , hostility , irritability , anger , and homicidal ideation and threats have been reported in patients taking FYCOMPA ( 5 . 1 ) .
• These reactions occurred in patients with and without prior psychiatric history , prior aggressive behavior , or concomitant use of medications associated with hostility and aggression ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Advise patients and caregivers to contact a healthcare provider immediately if any of these reactions or changes in mood , behavior , or personality that are not typical for the patient are observed while taking FYCOMPA or after discontinuing FYCOMPA ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Closely monitor patients particularly during the titration period and at higher doses ( 5 . 1 ) .
• FYCOMPA should be reduced if these symptoms occur and should be discontinued immediately if symptoms are severe or are worsening ( 5 . 1 ) .
WARNING : SERIOUS PSYCHIATRIC AND BEHAVIORAL REACTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Serious or life - threatening psychiatric and behavioral adverse reactions including aggression , hostility , irritability , anger , and homicidal ideation and threats have been reported in patients taking FYCOMPA ( 5 . 1 ) • Monitor patients for these reactions as well as for changes in mood , behavior , or personality that are not typical for the patient , particularly during the titration period and at higher doses ( 5 . 1 ) • FYCOMPA should be reduced if these symptoms occur and should be discontinued immediately if symptoms are severe or are worsening ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FYCOMPA , a non - competitive AMPA glutamate receptor antagonist , is indicated for : • Treatment of partial - onset seizures with or without secondarily generalized seizures in patients with epilepsy 4 years of age and older ( 1 . 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in patients with epilepsy 12 years of age and older ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Partial - Onset Seizures FYCOMPA is indicated for the treatment of partial - onset seizures with or without secondarily generalized seizures in patients with epilepsy 4 years of age and older .
1 . 2 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures FYCOMPA is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in patients with epilepsy 12 years of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosing in the absence ofmoderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers • Starting dose : 2 mg once daily orally at bedtime ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • May increase dose based on clinical response and tolerability by increments of 2 mg once daily no more frequently than at weekly intervals ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Recommended maintenance dose in monotherapy or adjunctive therapy for partial - onset seizures : 8 mg to 12 mg once daily at bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended maintenance dose in adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures : 8 mg once daily at bedtime ( 2 . 2 ) • Measure oral suspension using provided adaptor and dosing syringe ( 2 . 7 ) Dosing in the presence of concomitant moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers : see section 2 . 3 Specific Populations • Mild and Moderate Hepatic Impairment : Maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg ( mild ) and 4 mg ( moderate ) once daily at bedtime ( 2 . 4 ) • Severe Hepatic Impairment : Not recommended ( 2 . 4 ) • Severe Renal Impairment or on Hemodialysis : Not recommended ( 2 . 5 ) • Elderly : Increase dose no more frequently than every 2 weeks ( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Dosage for Partial - Onset Seizures Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy The recommended starting dosage of FYCOMPA in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is 2 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime .
Increase dosage no more frequently than at weekly intervals by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability .
The recommended maintenance dose range is 8 mg to 12 mg once daily , although some patients may respond to a dose of 4 mg daily .
A dose of 12 mg once daily resulted in somewhat greater reductions in seizure rates than the dose of 8 mg once daily , but with a substantial increase in adverse reactions .
Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducing drugs , which include certain antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage for Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures Adjunctive Therapy The recommended starting dosage of FYCOMPA in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 2 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime .
Increase dosage no more frequently than at weekly intervals by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability .
The recommended maintenance dose is 8 mg once daily taken at bedtime .
Patients who are tolerating FYCOMPA at 8 mg once daily and require further reduction of seizures may benefit from a dose increase up to 12 mg once daily if tolerated .
Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducing drugs , which include certain AEDs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of Moderate or Strong CYP3A4 Enzyme Inducers Moderate and strong CYP3A4 inducers , including enzyme - inducing AEDs such as phenytoin , carbamazepine , and oxcarbazepine , cause a reduction in FYCOMPA plasma levels [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older receiving these concomitant enzyme - inducing drugs , the recommended starting dosage of FYCOMPA is 4 mg once daily taken orally at bedtime .
Increase dosage by increments of 2 mg once daily based on individual clinical response and tolerability , no more frequently than at weekly intervals .
A maintenance dose has not been established in clinical trials .
The highest dose studied in patients on concomitant enzyme - inducing AEDs was 12 mg once daily .
When moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn from a patient ’ s treatment regimen , the patient should be closely monitored for clinical response and tolerability .
Dose adjustment of FYCOMPA may be necessary .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment , the starting dose of FYCOMPA is 2 mg once daily .
Increase dosage by increments of 2 mg once daily no more frequently than every 2 weeks .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg for patients with mild hepatic impairment and 4 mg for patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
FYCOMPA is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ seeUse in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment FYCOMPA can be used in patients with moderate renal impairment with close monitoring .
A slower titration may be considered , based on clinical response and tolerability .
FYCOMPA is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment or patients undergoing hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 6 Dosage Information forElderly Patients In elderly patients , increase dosage no more frequently than every 2 weeks during titration [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 7 Administration of Oral Suspension FYCOMPA oral suspension , 0 . 5 mg / mL , should be shaken well before every administration .
The provided adapter and graduated oral dosing syringe should be used to administer the oral suspension .
A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device .
The adapter , which is supplied in the product carton , should be inserted firmly into the neck of the bottle before use and remain in place for the duration of the usage of the bottle .
The dosing syringe should be inserted into the adapter and the dose withdrawn from the inverted bottle .
The cap should be replaced after each use .
The cap fits properly when the adapter is in place [ see Instructions for Use ] .
Discard any unused FYCOMPA oral suspension remaining 90 days after first opening the bottle .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets • 2 mg tablets : orange , round , debossed with “ 2 ” on one side and “ Є 275 ” on the other .
• 4 mg tablets : red , round , debossed with “ 4 ” on one side and “ Є 277 ” on the other .
• 6 mg tablets : pink , round , debossed with “ 6 ” on one side and “ Є 294 ” on the other .
• 8 mg tablets : purple , round , debossed with “ 8 ” on one side and “ Є 295 ” on the other .
• 10 mg tablets : green , round , debossed with “ 10 ” on one side and “ Є 296 ” on the other .
• 12 mg tablets : blue , round , debossed with “ 12 ” on one side and “ Є 297 ” on the other .
Oral Suspension 0 . 5 mg / mL white to off - white opaque liquid suspension for oral administration .
• Tablets : 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , 10 mg , and 12 mg ( 3 ) • Oral Suspension : 0 . 5 mg / mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation : Monitor for suicidal thoughts or behavior ( 5 . 2 ) • Neurologic Effects : Monitor for dizziness , gait disturbance , somnolence , and fatigue ( 5 . 3 ) • Patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery ( 5 . 3 ) • Falls : Monitor for falls and injuries ( 5 . 4 ) • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multi - Organ Hypersensitivity : Discontinue if no alternate etiology ( 5 . 5 ) • Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs : In patients with epilepsy , there may be an increase in seizure frequency ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Serious Psychiatric and Behavioral Reactions In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , hostility - and aggression - related adverse reactions occurred in 12 % and 20 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , compared to 6 % of patients in the placebo group .
These effects were dose - related and generally appeared within the first 6 weeks of treatment , although new events continued to be observed through more than 37 weeks .
FYCOMPA - treated patients experienced more hostility - and aggression - related adverse reactions that were serious , severe , and led to dose reduction , interruption , and discontinuation more frequently than placebo - treated patients .
In general , in placebo - controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , neuropsychiatric events were reported more frequently in patients being treated with FYCOMPA than in patients taking placebo .
These events included irritability , aggression , anger , and anxiety , which occurred in 2 % or greater of FYCOMPA - treated patients and twice as frequently as in placebo - treated patients .
Other symptoms that occurred with FYCOMPA and were more common than with placebo included belligerence , affect lability , agitation , and physical assault .
Some of these events were reported as serious and life - threatening .
Homicidal ideation and / or threat were exhibited in 0 . 1 % of 4 , 368 FYCOMPA - treated patients in controlled and open label trials , including non - epilepsy trials .
Homicidal ideation and / or threat have also been reported postmarketing in patients treated with FYCOMPA .
In the partial - onset seizure clinical trials , these events occurred in patients with and without prior psychiatric history , prior aggressive behavior , or concomitant use of medications associated with hostility and aggression .
Some patients experienced worsening of their pre - existing psychiatric conditions .
Patients with active psychotic disorders and unstable recurrent affective disorders were excluded from the clinical trials .
The combination of alcohol and FYCOMPA significantly worsened mood and increased anger .
Patients taking FYCOMPA should avoid the use of alcohol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Similar serious psychiatric and behavioral events were observed in the primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure clinical trial .
In healthy volunteers taking FYCOMPA , observed psychiatric events included paranoia , euphoric mood , agitation , anger , mental status changes , and disorientation / confusional state .
In the non - epilepsy trials , psychiatric events that occurred in perampanel - treated patients more often than placebo - treated patients included disorientation , delusion , and paranoia .
In the postmarketing setting , there have been reports of psychosis ( acute psychosis , hallucinations , delusions , paranoia ) and delirium ( delirium , confusional state , disorientation , memory impairment ) in patients treated with FYCOMPA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Patients , their caregivers , and families should be informed that FYCOMPA may increase the risk of psychiatric events .
Patients should be monitored during treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose of FYCOMPA , and especially when taking higher doses and during the initial few weeks of drug therapy ( titration period ) or at other times of dose increases .
Dose of FYCOMPA should be reduced if these symptoms occur .
Permanently discontinue FYCOMPA for persistent severe or worsening psychiatric symptoms or behaviors and refer for psychiatric evaluation .
5 . 2 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , including FYCOMPA , increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication .
Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression , suicidal thoughts or behavior , and / or any unusual changes in mood or behavior .
Pooled analyses of 199 placebo - controlled clinical trials ( mono - and adjunctive therapy ) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk ( adjusted Relative Risk 1 . 8 , 95 % CI : 1 . 2 , 2 . 7 ) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo .
In these trials , which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks , the estimated incidence of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27 , 863 AED - treated patients was 0 . 43 % , compared to 0 . 24 % among 16 , 029 placebo - treated patients , representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated .
There were four suicides in drug - treated patients in the trials and none in placebo - treated patients , but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as 1 week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed .
Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks , the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed .
The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed .
The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication .
The risk did not vary substantially by age ( 5 - 100 years ) in the clinical trials analyzed .
Table 1 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs .
Table 1 .
Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysisIndication Placebo Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events per 1000 patients Relative Risk : Incidence of Events in drug Patients / Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference : Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1 . 0 3 . 4 3 . 5 2 . 4 Psychiatric 5 . 7 8 . 5 1 . 5 2 . 9 Other 1 . 0 1 . 8 1 . 9 0 . 9 Total 2 . 4 4 . 3 1 . 8 1 . 9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions , but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications .
Anyone considering prescribing FYCOMPA or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness .
Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior .
Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment , the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated .
5 . 3 Neurologic Effects Dizziness and Gait Disturbance FYCOMPA caused dose - related increases in events related to dizziness and disturbance in gait or coordination [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , dizziness and vertigo were reported in 35 % and 47 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , compared to 10 % of placebo - treated patients .
The gait disturbance related events ( including ataxia , gait disturbance , balance disorder , and abnormal coordination ) were reported in 12 % and 16 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , compared to 2 % of placebo - treated patients .
Elderly patients had an increased risk of these adverse reactions compared to younger adults and pediatric patients .
These adverse reactions occurred mostly during the titration phase and led to discontinuation in 3 % of FYCOMPA - treated patients compared to 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
These adverse reactions were also observed in the primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure clinical trial .
Somnolence and Fatigue FYCOMPA caused dose - dependent increases in somnolence and fatigue - related events ( including fatigue , asthenia , and lethargy ) .
In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , 16 % and 18 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , reported somnolence compared to 7 % of placebo patients .
In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , 12 % and 15 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , reported fatigue - related events compared to 5 % of placebo patients .
Somnolence or fatigue - related events led to discontinuation in 2 % of FYCOMPA - treated patients and 0 . 5 % of placebo - treated patients .
Elderly patients had an increased risk of these adverse reactions compared to younger adults and pediatric patients .
In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , these adverse reactions occurred mostly during the titration phase .
These adverse reactions were also observed in the primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure clinical trial .
Risk Amelioration Prescribers should advise patients against engaging in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating motor vehicles or dangerous machinery , until the effect of FYCOMPA is known .
Patients should be carefully observed for signs of central nervous system ( CNS ) depression , such as somnolence and sedation , when FYCOMPA is used with other drugs with sedative properties because of potential additive effects .
5 . 4 Falls An increased risk of falls , in some cases leading to serious injuries including head injuries and bone fracture , occurred in patients being treated with FYCOMPA ( with and without concurrent seizures ) .
In the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , falls were reported in 5 % and 10 % of patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg and 12 mg per day , respectively , compared to 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
Falls were reported as serious and led to discontinuation more frequently in FYCOMPA - treated patients than placebo - treated patients .
Elderly patients had an increased risk of falls compared to younger adults and pediatric patients .
5 . 5 Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) , also known as Multiorgan hypersensitivity , has been reported in patients taking antiepileptic drugs , including FYCOMPA .
DRESS may be fatal or life - threatening .
DRESS typically , although not exclusively , presents with fever , rash , lymphadenopathy , and / or facial swelling , in association with other organ system involvement , such as hepatitis , nephritis , hematological abnormalities , myocarditis , or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection .
Eosinophilia is often present .
Because this disorder is variable in its expression , other organ systems not noted here may be involved .
It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity , such as fever or lymphadenopathy , may be present even though rash is not evident .
If such signs or symptoms are present , the patient should be evaluated immediately .
FYCOMPA should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established .
5 . 6 Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs There is the potential of increased seizure frequency in patients with seizure disorders when antiepileptic drugs are withdrawn abruptly .
FYCOMPA has a half - life of approximately 105 hours so that even after abrupt cessation , blood levels fall gradually .
In epilepsy clinical trials FYCOMPA was withdrawn without down - titration .
Although a small number of patients exhibited seizures following discontinuation , the data were not sufficient to allow any recommendations regarding appropriate withdrawal regimens .
A gradual withdrawal is generally recommended with antiepileptic drugs , but if withdrawal is a response to adverse events , prompt withdrawal can be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious Psychiatric and Behavioral Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Suicidal Behavior and Ideation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Neurologic Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Falls [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) / Multiorgan Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and ≥ 1 % higher than placebo ) include dizziness , somnolence , fatigue , irritability , falls , nausea , weight gain , vertigo , ataxia , headache , vomiting , contusion , abdominal pain , and anxiety ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eisai at 1 - 888 - 274 - 2378 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Partial - Onset Seizures Adult and Adolescent Patients ( 12 years of age and older ) A total of 1 , 038 patients receiving FYCOMPA ( 2 , 4 , 8 , or 12 mg once daily ) constituted the safety population in the pooled analysis of the placebo - controlled trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) in patients with partial - onset seizures .
Approximately 51 % of patients were female , and the mean age was 35 years .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation In controlled clinical trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , the rate of discontinuation as a result of an adverse reaction was 3 % , 8 % , and 19 % in patients randomized to receive FYCOMPA at the recommended doses of 4 mg , 8 mg , and 12 mg per day , respectively , and 5 % in patients randomized to receive placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The adverse reactions most commonly leading to discontinuation ( ≥ 1 % in the 8 mg or 12 mg FYCOMPA group and greater than placebo ) were dizziness , somnolence , vertigo , aggression , anger , ataxia , blurred vision , irritability , and dysarthria [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions Table 2 gives the incidence in the controlled clinical trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) of the adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients with partial - onset seizures in the FYCOMPA 12 mg dose group and more frequent than placebo ( in order of decreasing frequency for the 12 mg dose group ) .
The most common dose - related adverse reactions in patients receiving FYCOMPA at doses of 8 mg or 12 mg ( ≥ 4 % and occurring at least 1 % higher than the placebo group ) included dizziness ( 36 % ) , somnolence ( 16 % ) , fatigue ( 10 % ) , irritability ( 9 % ) , falls ( 7 % ) , nausea ( 7 % ) , ataxia ( 5 % ) , balance disorder ( 4 % ) , gait disturbance ( 4 % ) , vertigo ( 4 % ) , and weight gain ( 4 % ) .
For almost every adverse reaction , rates were higher on 12 mg and more often led to dose reduction or discontinuation .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo - Controlled Trials in Adult and Adolescent Patients with Partial - Onset Seizures ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) ( Reactions ≥ 2 % of Patients in Highest FYCOMPA Dose ( 12 mg ) Group and More Frequent than Placebo ) Placebo n = 442 % FYCOMPA 4 mg n = 172 % 8 mg n = 431 % 12 mg n = 255 % Dizziness 9 16 32 43 Somnolence 7 9 16 18 Headache 11 11 11 13 Irritability 3 4 7 12 Fatigue 5 8 8 12 Falls 3 2 5 10 Ataxia 0 1 3 8 Nausea 5 3 6 8 Vertigo 1 4 3 5 Back pain 2 2 2 5 Dysarthria 0 1 3 4 Anxiety 1 2 3 4 Blurred vision 1 1 3 4 Gait disturbance 1 1 4 4 Weight gain 1 4 4 4 Cough 3 1 1 4 Upper respiratory tract infection 3 3 3 4 Vomiting 3 2 3 4 Hypersomnia 0 1 2 3 Anger < 1 0 1 3 Aggression 1 1 2 3 Balance disorder 1 0 5 3 Diplopia 1 1 1 3 Head injury 1 1 1 3 Hypoaesthesia 1 0 0 3 Pain in extremity 1 0 2 3 Constipation 2 2 2 3 Myalgia 2 1 1 3 Coordination abnormal 0 1 < 1 2 Euphoric mood 0 0 < 1 2 Confusional state < 1 1 1 2 Hyponatremia < 1 0 0 2 Limb injury < 1 1 1 2 Mood altered < 1 1 < 1 2 Arthralgia 1 0 3 2 Asthenia 1 1 2 2 Contusion 1 0 2 2 Memory impairment 1 0 1 2 Musculoskeletal pain 1 1 1 2 Oropharyngeal pain 1 2 2 2 Paraesthesia 1 0 1 2 Peripheral edema 1 1 1 2 Skin laceration 1 0 2 2 Pediatric Patients ( 4 to < 12 years of age ) In two studies in pediatric patients 4 to < 12 years of age with epilepsy , a total of 225 patients received FYCOMPA , with 110 patients exposed for at least 6 months , and 21 patients for at least 1 year .
Adverse reactions in pediatric patients 4 to < 12 years of age were similar to those seen in patients 12 years of age and older .
Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures A total of 81 patients receiving FYCOMPA 8 mg once daily constituted the safety population in the placebo - controlled trial in patients with primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures ( Study 4 ) .
Approximately 57 % of patients were female , and the mean age was 27 years .
In the controlled primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure clinical trial ( Study 4 ) , the adverse reaction profile was similar to that noted for the controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Table 3 gives the incidence of adverse reactions in patients receiving FYCOMPA 8 mg ( ≥ 4 % and higher than in the placebo group ) in Study 4 .
The most common adverse reactions in patients receiving FYCOMPA ( ≥ 10 % and greater than placebo ) were dizziness ( 32 % ) , fatigue ( 15 % ) , headache ( 12 % ) , somnolence ( 11 % ) , and irritability ( 11 % ) .
The adverse reactions most commonly leading to discontinuation in patients receiving FYCOMPA 8 mg ( ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo ) were vomiting ( 2 % ) and dizziness ( 2 % ) .
Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions in a Placebo - Controlled Trial in Patients with Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizures ( Study 4 ) ( Reactions ≥ 4 % of Patients in FYCOMPA Group and More Frequent than Placebo ) Placebo n = 82 % FYCOMPA 8 mg n = 81 % Dizziness 6 32 Fatigue 6 15 Headache 10 12 Somnolence 4 11 Irritability 2 11 Vertigo 2 9 Vomiting 2 9 Weight gain 4 7 Contusion 4 6 Nausea 5 6 Abdominal pain 1 5 Anxiety 4 5 Urinary tract infection 1 4 Ligament sprain 0 4 Balance disorder 1 4 Rash 1 4 Weight Gain Weight gain has occurred with FYCOMPA .
In controlled partial - onset seizure clinical trials , FYCOMPA - treated adults gained an average of 1 . 1 kg ( 2 . 5 lbs ) compared to an average of 0 . 3 kg ( 0 . 7 lbs ) in placebo - treated adults with a median exposure of 19 weeks .
The percentages of adults who gained at least 7 % and 15 % of their baseline body weight in FYCOMPA - treated patients were 9 . 1 % and 0 . 9 % , respectively , as compared to 4 . 5 % and 0 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients , respectively .
Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended .
Similar increases in weight were also observed in adult and adolescent patients treated with FYCOMPA in the primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure clinical trial .
Elevated triglycerides Increases in triglycerides have occurred with FYCOMPA use .
Comparison of Sex and Race No significant sex differences were noted in the incidence of adverse reactions .
Although there were few non - Caucasian patients , no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions compared to Caucasian patients were observed .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of FYCOMPA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Dermatologic : Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Psychiatric : Acute psychosis , hallucinations , delusions , paranoia , delirium , confusional state , disorientation , memory impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Contraceptives : 12 mg once daily may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel ( 7 . 1 ) • Moderate and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers ( including carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , and phenytoin ) : increase clearance of perampanel and decrease perampanel plasma concentrations .
When moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn , monitor patients closely .
Dose adjustment of FYCOMPA may be necessary ( 2 . 3 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Contraceptives With concomitant use , FYCOMPA at a dose of 12 mg per day reduced levonorgestrel exposure by approximately 40 % [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use of FYCOMPA with contraceptives containing levonorgestrel may render them less effective .
Additional non - hormonal forms of contraception are recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Moderate and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of known moderate and strong CYP3A4 inducers including carbamazepine , phenytoin , or oxcarbazepine with FYCOMPA decreased the plasma levels of perampanel by approximately 50 - 67 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The starting doses for FYCOMPA should be increased in the presence of moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
When these moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers are introduced or withdrawn from a patient ’ s treatment regimen , the patient should be closely monitored for clinical response and tolerability .
Dose adjustment of FYCOMPA may be necessary [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of FYCOMPA and CNS depressants including alcohol may increase CNS depression .
A pharmacodynamic interaction study in healthy subjects found that the effects of FYCOMPA on complex tasks such as driving ability were additive or supra - additive to the impairment effects of alcohol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Multiple dosing of FYCOMPA 12 mg per day also enhanced the effects of alcohol to interfere with vigilance and alertness , and increased levels of anger , confusion , and depression .
These effects may also be seen when FYCOMPA is used in combination with other CNS depressants .
Care should be taken when administering FYCOMPA with these agents .
Patients should limit activity until they have experience with concomitant use of CNS depressants ( e . g . , benzodiazepines , narcotics , barbiturates , sedating antihistamines ) .
Advise patients not to drive or operate machinery until they have gained sufficient experience on FYCOMPA to gauge whether it adversely affects these activities .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs ) , such as FYCOMPA , during pregnancy .
Encourage women who are taking FYCOMPA during pregnancy to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 or visiting http : / / www . aedpregnancyregistry . org .
Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use in pregnant women .
In animal studies , perampanel induced developmental toxicity in pregnant rat and rabbit at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of perampanel ( 1 , 3 , or 10 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis resulted in an increase in visceral abnormalities ( diverticulum of the intestine ) at all doses tested ; maternal toxicity was observed at the mid and high doses .
In a dose - ranging study at higher oral doses ( 10 , 30 , or 60 mg / kg / day ) , embryo lethality and reduced fetal body weight were observed at the mid and high doses tested .
The lowest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg / day ) is similar to a human dose of 8 mg / day based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Upon oral administration of perampanel ( 1 , 3 , or 10 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis , embryo lethality and maternal toxicity were observed at the mid and high doses tested ; the no - effect dose for embryo - fetal developmental toxicity in rabbit ( 1 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 2 times a human dose of 8 mg / day based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Oral administration of perampanel ( 1 , 3 , or 10 mg / kg / day ) to rats throughout gestation and lactation resulted in fetal and pup deaths at the mid and high doses ( associated with maternal toxicity ) and delayed sexual maturation in males and females at the highest dose tested .
No effects were observed on measures of neurobehavioral or reproductive function in the offspring .
The no - effect dose for pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity in rat ( 1 mg / kg / day ) is similar to a human dose of 8 mg / day based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of perampanel in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Perampanel and / or its metabolites are present in rat milk , and are detected at concentrations higher than that in maternal plasma .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for FYCOMPA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from FYCOMPA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Use of FYCOMPA may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives containing levonorgestrel .
Advise women taking FYCOMPA who are using a levonorgestrel - containing contraceptive to use an additional non - hormonal form of contraception while using FYCOMPA and for a month after discontinuation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of FYCOMPA for the treatment of partial - onset seizures have been established in pediatric patients 4 years of age and older .
The safety and effectiveness of FYCOMPA in patients 12 years of age and older was established by three randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter studies , which included 72 pediatric patients between 12 and 16 years of age exposed to FYCOMPA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) andClinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Use of FYCOMPA for the treatment of partial - onset seizures in pediatric patients 4 years to less than 12 years of age is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of FYCOMPA in patients 12 years of age and older with partial onset seizures , pharmacokinetic data from adult and pediatric patients , and safety data in 225 pediatric patients 4 years to less than 12 years of age treated with FYCOMPA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of FYCOMPA for the adjunctive therapy of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older was established in a single randomized double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter trial ( n = 164 ) , which included 11 pediatric patients 12 to 16 years of age exposed to FYCOMPA ; an additional 6 patients were treated with FYCOMPA in the open - label extension of the study [ seeClinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of FYCOMPA for the treatment of partial - onset seizures in pediatric patients less than 4 years of age or for the treatment of primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age have not been established .
Juvenile Animal Data Oral administration of perampanel ( 1 , 3 , 3 / 10 / 30 mg / kg / day ; high dose increased on postnatal days [ PND ] 28 and 56 ) to young rats for 12 weeks starting on PND 7 resulted in reduced body weight , reduced growth , neurobehavioral impairment ( water maze performance and auditory startle habituation ) at the mid and high doses , and delayed sexual maturation at the high doses .
CNS signs ( reduced activity , incoordination , excessive grooming / scratching ) , pup death , decreased hindlimb splay , and decreased hindlimb grip strength were observed at all doses .
Effects on pup body weight , pup growth , hindlimb splay , impairment in the water maze performance , and auditory startle persisted after dosing was stopped .
A no - effect dose for postnatal developmental toxicity was not identified in this study .
Oral administration of perampanel ( 1 , 5 , 5 / 10 mg / kg / day ; high dose increased on PND 56 ) to juvenile dogs for 33 weeks , starting on PND 42 , resulted in CNS signs ( incoordination , excessive grooming / licking / scratching , spatial disorientation , and / or ataxic gait ) at all doses tested .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of FYCOMPA did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine the safety and efficacy of FYCOMPA in the elderly population .
Because of increased likelihood for adverse reactions in the elderly , dosing titration should proceed slowly in patients aged 65 years and older [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Use of FYCOMPA in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended , and dosage adjustments are recommended in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild renal impairment .
FYCOMPA should be used with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment , and slower titration may be considered .
Use in patients with severe renal impairment or patients undergoing hemodialysis is not recommended [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance FYCOMPA contains perampanel and is listed as a Schedule III controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse Prescription drug abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , for its rewarding psychological or physiological effects .
Drug addiction , which develops after repeated drug abuse , is characterized by a strong desire to take a drug despite harmful consequences , difficulty in controlling its use , giving a higher priority to drug use than to obligations , increased tolerance , and sometimes physical withdrawal .
Drug abuse and drug addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence ( for example , abuse may not be accompanied by physical dependence ) [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) ] .
Studies of human abuse potential were performed to evaluate the abuse potential of FYCOMPA ( 8 mg , 24 mg , and 36 mg ) as compared to alprazolam C - IV ( 1 . 5 mg and 3 mg ) , and oral ketamine C - III ( 100 mg ) in recreational polydrug users .
Supra - therapeutic doses of FYCOMPA 24 and 36 mg produced responses for “ Euphoria ” that were similar to ketamine 100 mg and alprazolam 3 mg .
For “ High , ” FYCOMPA 24 mg and 36 mg produced responses comparable to ketamine 100 mg and significantly higher than both doses of alprazolam on a visual analog scale ( VAS ) .
“ Drug Liking , ” “ Overall Drug Liking , ” and “ Take Drug Again ” for FYCOMPA were each statistically lower than ketamine 100 mg .
In addition , for “ Bad Drug Effects , ” FYCOMPA 24 mg and 36 mg produced responses significantly higher than ketamine 100 mg .
For “ Sedation , ” FYCOMPA 24 and 36 mg produced responses similar to alprazolam 3 mg and higher than ketamine 100 mg .
Additionally , on VAS measures related to dissociative phenomena such as “ Floating , ” “ Spaced Out , ” and “ Detached , ” FYCOMPA at supratherapeutic doses produced responses similar to ketamine 100 mg and greater than both doses of alprazolam tested .
Of note , due to somnolence a number of subjects had missing data around Tmax of FYCOMPA .
The above described data might represent an underestimate of FYCOMPA ’ s effects .
The duration of effects of higher doses of FYCOMPA on the majority of measures was much greater than alprazolam 3 mg and ketamine 100 mg .
In this study , the incidence of euphoria following FYCOMPA administration 8 mg , 24 mg , and 36 mg was 37 % , 46 % , 46 % , respectively , which was higher than alprazolam 3 mg ( 13 % ) but lower than ketamine 100 mg ( 89 % ) .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical dependence is characterized by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug .
A nonclinical dependence study in rats demonstrated withdrawal symptoms , including hyperreactivity to handling , muscle rigidity , and decreases in food consumption and body weights .
FYCOMPA may cause dependence and withdrawal symptoms that may include anxiety , nervousness , irritability , fatigue , lethargy , asthenia , mood swings , and insomnia .
10 OVERDOSAGE The highest reported overdose of FYCOMPA was 300 mg .
Events reported after FYCOMPA overdose include somnolence , stupor , coma , psychiatric or behavioral reactions , altered mental status , and dizziness or gait disturbances .
There is no available specific antidote to the overdose reactions of FYCOMPA .
In the event of overdose , standard medical practice for the management of any overdose should be used .
An adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation should be ensured ; monitoring of cardiac rhythm and vital sign measurement is recommended .
A certified poison control center should be contacted for updated information on the management of overdose with FYCOMPA .
Due to its long half - life , the reactions caused by FYCOMPA could be prolonged .
11 DESCRIPTION FYCOMPA tablets and oral suspension contain perampanel , a non - competitive AMPA receptor antagonist , as a 4 : 3 hydrate .
The chemical name of the active ingredient is 2 - ( 1 ′ , 6 ′ - dihydro - 6 ′ - oxo - 1 ′ - phenyl [ 2 , 3 ′ - bipyridin ] - 5 ′ - yl ) - benzonitrile , hydrate ( 4 : 3 ) .
The molecular formula is C23H15N3O •¾ H2O and the molecular weight is 362 . 90 ( 349 . 39 for anhydrous perampanel ) .
It is a white to yellowish white powder .
It is freely soluble in 1 - methyl - 2 - pyrrolidinone , sparingly soluble in acetonitrile and acetone , slightly soluble in methanol , ethanol and ethyl acetate , very slightly soluble in 1 - octanol and diethyl ether , and practically insoluble in heptane and water .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tablets FYCOMPA tablets are round , bi - convex , film - coated tablets containing 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , 10 mg , or 12 mg of perampanel .
Tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Tablets of different strengths may contain yellow ferric oxide ( 10 mg and 2 mg ) , red ferric oxide ( 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg ) , black ferric oxide ( 8 mg ) , and FD & C Blue No . 2 ( indigo carmine ) aluminum lake ( 10 mg and 12 mg ) .
Oral Suspension FYCOMPA oral suspension is a white to off - white opaque liquid providing perampanel in a concentration of 0 . 5 mg / mL .
The oral suspension contains the following inactive ingredients : sorbitol , microcrystalline cellulose , carboxymethyl - cellulose sodium , poloxamer , simethicone , citric acid , sodium benzoate and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Perampanel is a non - competitive antagonist of the ionotropic α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionic acid ( AMPA ) glutamate receptor on post - synaptic neurons .
Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and is implicated in a number of neurological disorders caused by neuronal over excitation .
The precise mechanism by which FYCOMPA exerts its antiepileptic effects in humans is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Psychomotor Performance In a healthy volunteer study to assess the effects of FYCOMPA tablets on psychomotor performance using a standard battery of assessments including simulated driving , single and multiple daily doses of FYCOMPA 4 mg did not impair simple psychomotor tasks , driving performance , or sensorimotor coordination .
Single and multiple doses of 8 mg and 12 mg impaired psychomotor performance in a dose - related manner .
Car handling ability was impaired after dosing of FYCOMPA 12 mg , but postural stability was not significantly impaired .
Performance testing returned to baseline within 2 weeks of cessation of FYCOMPA dosing .
Interactions with Alcohol In the above study ( seePsychomotor Performance ) , when administered to healthy subjects receiving alcohol to achieve a blood concentration of 80 - 100 mg / 100 mL , FYCOMPA consistently impaired simple psychomotor performance after single doses of 4 to 12 mg , and after 21 days of multiple 12 mg / day doses .
The effects of FYCOMPA on complex tasks such as driving ability were additive or supra - additive to the impairment effects of alcohol .
FYCOMPA enhanced the effects of alcohol on vigilance and alertness , and increased levels of anger , confusion , and depression .
Potential to Prolong QT Interval In a placebo - controlled thorough QT study of perampanel in healthy subjects , there was no evidence that perampanel caused QT interval prolongation of clinical significance at doses of 6 or 12 mg ( i . e . , the upper bound of the 95 % confidence interval for the largest placebo - adjusted baseline - corrected QTc was below 10 msec ) .
The exposures observed with the 12 mg dose in this study will not cover the exposures expected in patients with hepatic impairment taking doses over 6 mg / day .
At the highest recommended dose ( 12 mg ) , perampanel did not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetics of perampanel are similar in healthy subjects , patients with partial - onset seizures , and patients with primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures .
The half - life of perampanel is about 105 hours , so that steady state is reached in about 2 - 3 weeks .
AUC of perampanel increased in a dose - proportional manner after single - dose administration of 0 . 2 - 12 mg tablets and after multiple - dose administration of 1 - 12 mg tablets once daily .
FYCOMPA oral suspension has comparable bioavailability to FYCOMPA tablets under steady state .
Both formulations may be used interchangeably .
The pharmacokinetics of perampanel are similar when used as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial - onset seizures ( in the absence of concomitant moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers ) .
Absorption Perampanel is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration with negligible first - pass metabolism .
Median time to reach peak concentration ( tmax ) ranged from 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours under fasted condition .
Co - administration of FYCOMPA tablet with a high fat meal had no impact on the total exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) of perampanel and reduced the peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of perampanel by 11 % - 40 % .
The tmax was delayed by approximately 1 - 3 hours in fed state compared to that under fasted conditions .
Distribution Data from in vitro studies indicate that , in the concentration range of 20 to 2000 ng / mL , perampanel is approximately 95 - 96 % bound to plasma proteins , mainly bound to albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein .
Blood to plasma ratio of perampanel is 0 . 55 - 0 . 59 .
Metabolism Perampanel is extensively metabolized via primary oxidation and sequential glucuronidation .
Oxidative metabolism is primarily mediated by CYP3A4 / 5 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 , based on results of in vitro studies using recombinant human CYPs and human liver microsomes .
Other CYP enzymes may also be involved .
Following administration of radiolabeled perampanel , unchanged perampanel accounted for 74 - 80 % of total radioactivity in systemic circulation , whereas only trace amounts of individual perampanel metabolites were detected in plasma .
Elimination Following administration of a radiolabeled perampanel tablet dose to 8 healthy elderly subjects , 22 % of administered radioactivity was recovered in the urine and 48 % in the feces .
In urine and feces , recovered radioactivity was primarily composed of a mixture of oxidative and conjugated metabolites .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of pooled data from 19 Phase 1 studies reported that t1 / 2 of perampanel was 105 hours on average .
Apparent clearance of perampanel in healthy subjects and patients was approximately 12 mL / min .
Specific Populations Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of perampanel following a single 1 mg tablet dose were evaluated in 12 subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A and B , respectively ) compared with 12 demographically matched healthy subjects .
The total ( free and protein bound ) exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) of perampanel was 50 % greater in subjects with mild hepatic impairment and more than doubled ( 2 . 55 - fold ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment compared to their healthy controls .
The AUC0 - inf of free perampanel in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment was 1 . 8 - fold and 3 . 3 - fold , respectively , of those in matched healthy controls .
The t1 / 2 was prolonged in subjects with mild impairment ( 306 vs . 125 hours ) and moderate impairment ( 295 vs . 139 hours ) .
Perampanel has not been studied in subjects with severe hepatic impairment [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment A dedicated study has not been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of perampanel in patients with renal impairment .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on pooled data from patients with partial - onset seizures and receiving FYCOMPA tablets up to 12 mg / day in placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Results showed that perampanel apparent clearance was decreased by 27 % in patients with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 50 - 80 mL / min ) compared to patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) , with a corresponding 37 % increase in AUC .
Considering the substantial overlap in the exposure between normal and mildly impaired patients , no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild renal impairment .
Perampanel has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment and patients undergoing hemodialysis [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Sex In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures receiving FYCOMPA tablets in placebo - controlled clinical trials , perampanel apparent clearance in females ( 0 . 54 L / hr ) was 18 % lower than in males ( 0 . 66 L / hr ) .
No dosage adjustment is necessary based on sex .
Pediatrics In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of healthy subjects and pediatric and adult patients with partial onset seizures , including 123 children 4 years to less than 12 years of age , 226 adolescents 12 years to less than 18 years of age , and 1912 adults 18 years of age and older , no significant effect of age or body weight on perampanel clearance was found .
Geriatrics In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset seizures and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures ranging in age from 12 to 74 years receiving FYCOMPA tablets in placebo - controlled trials , no significant effect of age on perampanel apparent clearance was found [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Race In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset seizures and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , which included 614 Caucasians , 15 Blacks , 4 Japanese , 4 American Indians / Alaska Natives , 79 Chinese and 108 other Asians receiving FYCOMPA tablets in placebo - controlled trials , no significant effect of race on perampanel apparent clearance was found .
No dosage adjustment is necessary .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug Metabolizing Enzymes In human liver microsomes , perampanel at a concentration of 30 μmol / L , about 10 fold the steady state Cmax at a 12 mg dose , had a weak inhibitory effect on CYP2C8 , CYP3A4 , UGT1A9 , and UGT2B7 .
Perampanel did not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , UGT1A1 , UGT1A4 , and UGT1A6 up to a concentration of 30 µmol / L . Compared with positive controls ( including phenobarbital and rifampin ) , perampanel was found to weakly induce CYP2B6 ( 30 µmol / L ) and CYP3A4 / 5 ( ≥ 3 µmol / L ) in cultured human hepatocytes .
Perampanel also induced UGT1A1 ( ≥ 3 µmol / L ) and UGT1A4 ( 30 µmol / L ) .
Perampanel did not induce CYP1A2 at concentrations up to 30 µmol / L . Transporters In vitro studies showed that perampanel is not a substrate or significant inhibitor of the following : organic anion transporting polypeptides 1B1 and 1B3 ; organic anion transporters 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 ; organic cation transporters 1 , 2 , and 3 ; efflux transporters P - glycoprotein and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein .
In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with AEDs Effect of Concomitant AEDs on FYCOMPA : Carbamazepine .
As an inducer of CYP enzymes , carbamazepine increases perampanel clearance .
Steady state administration of carbamazepine at 300 mg BID in healthy subjects reduced the Cmax and AUC0 - inf of a single 2 mg tablet dose of perampanel by 26 % and 67 % , respectively .
The t1 / 2 of perampanel was shortened from 56 . 8 hours to 25 hours .
In clinical studies examining partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , a population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that perampanel AUC was reduced by 64 % in patients on carbamazepine compared to the AUC in patients not on enzyme - inducing AEDs [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Oxcarbazepine .
In clinical studies examining partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , a population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that perampanel AUC was reduced by 48 % in patients on oxcarbazepine compared to patients not on enzyme - inducing AEDs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Eslicarbazepine .
Eslicarbazepine is structurally similar to oxcarbazepine and thus may also reduce perampanel plasma concentrations when used concomitantly .
Phenytoin .
In clinical studies examining partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures , a population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that perampanel AUC was reduced by 43 % in patients on phenytoin compared to patients not on enzyme - inducing AEDs [ seeDosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Phenobarbital and Primidone : In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in clinical trials ( 40 patients co - administered phenobarbital and 9 patients co - administered primidone ) , no significant effect on perampanel AUC was found .
A modest effect of phenobarbital and primidone on perampanel concentrations cannot be excluded .
Topiramate : Population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in clinical trials showed that perampanel AUC was reduced by approximately 19 % in patients on topiramate compared to patients not on enzyme - inducing AEDs .
Other AEDs : Population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset and primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in clinical trials showed that clobazam , clonazepam , lamotrigine , levetiracetam , valproate , and zonisamide did not have an effect on perampanel clearance .
Other strong CYP3A inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , St . John ’ s wort ) may also greatly increase clearance of perampanel and reduce perampanel plasma concentrations [ seeDrug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Effect of FYCOMPA on Concomitant AEDs : FYCOMPA tablets up to 12 mg / day did not significantly affect the clearance of clonazepam , levetiracetam , phenobarbital , phenytoin , topiramate , or zonisamide based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of patients with partial - onset seizures in clinical trials .
FYCOMPA had a statistically significant effect on the clearance of carbamazepine , clobazam , lamotrigine , and valproic acid , but the increases in clearance of these drugs were each less than 10 % at the highest perampanel dose evaluated ( 12 mg / day ) .
FYCOMPA co - administration resulted in a 26 % decrease in oxcarbazepine clearance and increased its concentrations .
The concentrations of 10 - monohydroxy metabolite ( MHD ) , the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine , were not measured .
Drug - drug Interaction Studies with Other Drugs Effect of Other Drugs on FYCOMPA Ketoconazole .
Co - administration of single 1 - mg dose of perampanel tablet with 400 mg once daily doses of ketoconazole , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , for 8 days in healthy subjects prolonged perampanel t1 / 2 by 15 % ( 67 . 8 vs . 58 . 4 hours ) and increased AUC0 - inf by 20 % .
Contraceptives .
Perampanel Cmax and AUC0 - 72 h were not altered when a single 6 - mg dose of perampanel tablet was administered to healthy female subjects following a 21 - day course of oral contraceptives containing ethinylestradiol 30 µg and levonorgestrel 150 µg .
Effect of FYCOMPA on Other Drugs Midazolam .
Perampanel administered as 6 mg tablet once daily doses for 20 days decreased AUC0 - inf and Cmax of midazolam ( a CYP3A4 substrate ) by 13 % and 15 % , respectively , in healthy subjects .
Contraceptives .
Co - administration of perampanel 4 mg tablet once daily with an oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol 30 µg and levonorgestrel 150 µg for 21 days did not alter Cmax or AUC0 - 24 h of either ethinylestradiol or levonorgestrel in healthy female subjects .
In another study , a single dose of the oral contraceptive was administered following 21 - day once daily dosing of FYCOMPA 12 mg or 8 mg tablets in healthy females .
FYCOMPA at 12 mg did not alter AUC0 - 24 h of ethinylestradiol but decreased its Cmax by 18 % , and also decreased Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h of levonorgestrel by 42 % and 40 % , respectively .
FYCOMPA at 8 mg did not have significant effect on Cmax or AUC0 - 24 h of either ethinylestradiol or levonorgestrel , with a decrease in AUC0 - 24 h of levonorgestrel ( 9 % on average ) [ seeDrug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Levodopa .
Perampanel tablets administered as 4 mg once daily doses for 19 days had no effect on Cmax and AUC0 - inf of levodopa in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Perampanel was administered orally to mice ( 1 , 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 10 , 30 , or 100 mg / kg / day in males ; 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day in females ) for up to 104 weeks .
There was no evidence of drug - related tumors in either species .
Plasma perampanel exposures ( AUC ) at the highest doses tested were less than that in humans dosed at 8 mg / day .
Mutagenesis Perampanel was negative in the in vitro Ames and mouse lymphoma tk assays , and in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility In male and female rats administered perampanel ( oral doses of 1 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day ) prior to and throughout mating and continuing in females to gestation day 6 , there were no clear effects on fertility .
Prolonged and / or irregular estrus cycles were observed at all doses but particularly at the highest dose tested .
Plasma perampanel exposures ( AUC ) at all doses were lower than that in humans dosed at 8 mg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 1 Partial - Onset Seizures The efficacy of FYCOMPA in partial - onset seizures , with or without secondary generalization , was studied in patients who were not adequately controlled with 1 to 3 concomitant AEDs in 3 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter trials ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) in adult and pediatric patients ( 12 years of age and older ) .
All trials had an initial 6 - week Baseline Period , during which patients were required to have more than five seizures in order to be randomized .
The Baseline Period was followed by a 19 - week Treatment Period consisting of a 6 - week Titration Phase and a 13 - week Maintenance Phase .
Patients in these 3 trials had a mean duration of epilepsy of approximately 21 years and a median baseline seizure frequency ranging from 9 to 14 seizures per 28 days .
During the trials , more than 85 % of patients were taking 2 to 3 concomitant AEDs with or without concurrent vagal nerve stimulation , and approximately 50 % were on at least one AED known to induce CYP3A4 , an enzyme critical to the metabolism of FYCOMPA ( i . e . , carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , or phenytoin ) , resulting in a significant reduction in FYCOMPA ’ s serum concentration [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Each study evaluated placebo and multiple FYCOMPA dosages ( see Figure 1 ) .
During the Titration period in all 3 trials , patients on FYCOMPA received an initial 2 mg once daily dose , which was subsequently increased in weekly increments of 2 mg per day to the final dose .
Patients experiencing intolerable adverse reactions were permitted to have their dose reduced to the previously tolerated dose .
The primary endpoint in Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 was the percent change in seizure frequency per 28 days during the Treatment Period as compared to the Baseline Period .
The criterion for statistical significance was p < 0 . 05 .
A statistically significant decrease in seizure rate was observed at doses of 4 to 12 mg per day .
Dose response was apparent at 4 to 8 mg with little additional reduction in frequency at 12 mg per day .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Tables 4 and 5 present an analysis combining data from all 3 studies , grouping patients based upon whether or not concomitant enzyme - inducing AEDs ( carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , or phenytoin ) were used .
The analysis revealed a substantially reduced effect in the presence of inducers .
Table 4 .
Median Percent Reduction for Combined Studies ( Study 1 , 2 and 3 ) Based on the Presence or Absence of Concomitant Enzyme - Inducing AEDs ( carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin ) a Without Enzyme - Inducing AEDs With Enzyme - Inducing AEDs Placebo % FYCOMPA % Placebo % FYCOMPA % 2 mg / day 16 23 14 16 4 mg / day 16 22 14 33 8 mg / day 19 45 12 24 12 mg / day 19 54 9 22 aPatients from Latin American region are excluded because of a significant treatment - by - regioninteraction due to high placebo response Table 5 .
Responder Rate for Combined Studies ( Study 1 , 2 and 3 ) Based on the Presence or Absence of Concomitant Enzyme - Inducing AEDs ( carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin ) a , b Without Enzyme - Inducing AEDs With Enzyme - Inducing AEDs Placebo % FYCOMPA % Placebo % FYCOMPA % 2 mg / day 19 26 18 20 4 mg / day 19 35 18 26 8 mg / day 17 45 19 32 12 mg / day 15 54 21 33 aPatients from Latin American region are excluded because of a significant treatment - by - regioninteraction due to high placebo response bThe proportion of patients with at least a 50 % decrease in seizure frequency Figure 2 shows the proportion of patients with different percent reductions during the maintenance phase over baseline across all three trials .
Patients in whom the seizure frequency increased are shown at left as “ worse . ”
Patients in whom the seizure frequency decreased are shown in the remaining four categories .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The percentages of patients with a 50 % or greater reduction in seizure frequency were 19 % , 29 % , 35 % , 35 % for placebo , 4 , 8 , and 12 mg , respectively .
14 . 2 Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic ( PGTC ) Seizures The efficacy of FYCOMPA as adjunctive therapy in patients 12 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures was established in one multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( Study 4 ) , conducted at 78 sites in 16 countries .
Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 AEDs experiencing at least 3 primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures during the 8 - week baseline period were randomized to either FYCOMPA or placebo .
Efficacy was analyzed in 162 patients ( FYCOMPA N = 81 , placebo N = 81 ) who received medication and at least one post - treatment seizure assessment .
Patients were titrated over 4 weeks up to a dose of 8 mg per day or the highest tolerated dose and treated for an additional 13 weeks on the last dose level achieved at the end of the titration period .
The total treatment period was 17 weeks .
Study drug was given once per day .
The primary endpoint was the percent change from baseline in primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure frequency per 28 days during the treatment period as compared to the baseline period .
The criterion for statistical significance was p < 0 . 05 .
Table 6 shows the results of this study .
A statistically significant decrease in seizure rate was observed with FYCOMPA compared to placebo .
Table 6 .
Median Percent Reduction from Baseline in Primary Generalized Tonic - Clonic Seizure Frequency in Study 4 Placebo ( N = 81 ) FYCOMPA 8 mg ( N = 81 ) Percent Reduction During Treatment 38 76 a a P - value compared to placebo : < 0 . 0001 .
Statistically significant as compared to placebo based on ANCOVA with treatment and pooled country as factors and the ranked baseline seizure frequency per 28 days as a covariate .
Figure 3 shows the proportion of patients with different percent reductions during the maintenance phase over baseline in primary generalized tonic - clonic seizure frequency .
Patients in whom the seizure frequency increased are shown at left as “ worse . ”
Patients in whom the seizure frequency decreased are shown in the remaining four categories .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied FYCOMPA Tablets • 2 mg are orange , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 2 ” on one side and “ Є 275 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 272 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 272 - 90 • 4 mg are red , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 4 ” on one side and “ Є 277 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 274 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 274 - 90 • 6 mg are pink , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 6 ” on one side and “ Є 294 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 276 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 276 - 90 • 8 mg are purple , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 8 ” on one side and “ Є 295 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 278 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 278 - 90 • 10 mg are green , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 10 ” on one side and “ Є 296 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 280 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 280 - 90 • 12 mg are blue , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 12 ” on one side and “ Є 297 ” on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 62856 - 282 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 62856 - 282 - 90 FYCOMPA Oral Suspension • 0 . 5 mg / mL is a white to off - white opaque liquid .
It is supplied in a round amber PET bottle with a child - resistant closure .
It is packaged with a dispenser set that provides two 20 - mL graduated oral dosing syringes and a push - in bottle adapter .
• Bottle containing 340 mL NDC 62856 - 290 - 38 16 . 2 Storage Tablets : store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Oral Suspension : Do not store above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Use within 90 days after the first opening of the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Administration of Oral Suspension Advise patients who are prescribed the oral suspension to shake the bottle well before every administration and to use the adaptor and oral dosing syringe provided .
Advise patients that a household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device .
Instruct patients to discard any unused FYCOMPA oral suspension remaining 90 days after first opening the bottle [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Serious Psychiatric and Behavioral Reactions Counsel patients , families , and caregivers of patients of the need to monitor for the emergence of anger , aggression , hostility , hallucinations , delusions , confusion , unusual changes in mood , personality , or behavior , and other behavioral symptoms .
Advise them to report any such symptoms immediately to their healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Suicidal Thinking and Behavior Counsel patients , their caregivers , and families that AEDs , including FYCOMPA , may increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior and advise them of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of symptoms of depression , any unusual changes in mood or behavior , or the emergence of suicidal thoughts , behavior , or thoughts about self - harm .
Instruct patients , caregivers , and families to report behaviors of concern immediately to healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Neurologic Effects : Dizziness , Gait Disturbance , Somnolence , and Fatigue Counsel patients that FYCOMPA may cause dizziness , gait disturbance , somnolence , and fatigue .
Advise patients taking FYCOMPA not to drive , operate complex machinery , or engage in other hazardous activities until they have become accustomed to any such effects associated with FYCOMPA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Falls Counsel patients that FYCOMPA may cause falls and injuries [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
DRESS / Multi - organ Hypersensitivity Instruct patients that a fever associated with signs of other organ system involvement ( e . g . , rash , lymphadenopathy , hepatic dysfunction ) may be drug - related and should be reported to their healthcare provider immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs Counsel patients that abrupt discontinuation of FYCOMPA may increase seizure frequency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Contraceptives Counsel females of reproductive potential that FYCOMPA may decrease efficacy of contraceptives containing levonorgestrel , and advise them to use an additional non - hormonal form of contraception while using FYCOMPA and for a month after discontinuation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants Counsel patients that FYCOMPA may enhance the impairment effects of alcohol .
These effects may also be seen if FYCOMPA is taken with other CNS depressants [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Missed Doses Counsel patients that if they miss a dose , they should resume dosing the following day at their prescribed daily dose .
Instruct patients to contact their physician if more than one day of dosing is missed .
Controlled Substance Counsel patients that FYCOMPA is a controlled substance that can be misused and abused [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise women who are exposed to FYCOMPA during pregnancy that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes .
Encourage these patients to enroll in the NAAED Pregnancy Registry [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
FYCOMPA ® is a registered trademark owned by Eisai R & D Management Co . , Ltd .
Marketed by Eisai Inc . , Nutley , NJ 07110 © 2012 - 2021 Eisai Inc .
MEDICATIONGUIDE FYCOMPA ® ( fī - COM - puh ) ( perampanel ) tablets , for oral use , CIII FYCOMPA ® ( fī - COM - puh ) ( perampanel ) oral suspension , CIII What is the most important information I should know about FYCOMPA ?
1 .
FYCOMPA may cause mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse aggressive behavior ( including homicidal behavior ) , hostility , anger , anxiety , or irritability • being suspicious or distrustful ( believing things that are not true ) • seeing objects or hearing things that are not there • confusion • difficulty with memory • other unusual or extreme changes in behavior or mood Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any new or worsening mental problems while taking FYCOMPA .
2 .
Like other antiepileptic drugs , FYCOMPA may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • new or worse depression • feeling agitated or restless • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • attempt to commit suicide • new or worse anxiety • panic attacks • new or worse irritability • acting on dangerous impulses • other unusual changes in behavior or mood Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
• Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Do not stop FYCOMPA without first talking with a healthcare provider .
Stopping FYCOMPA suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping FYCOMPA suddenly can cause you to have seizures more often .
What is FYCOMPA ?
FYCOMPA is a prescription medicine used : • to treat partial - onset seizures with or without secondarily generalized seizures in people with epilepsy who are 4 years of age and older • with other medicines to treat primary generalized tonic - clonic seizures in people with epilepsy who are 12 years of age and older FYCOMPA is a controlled substance ( CIII ) because it can be abused or lead to drug dependence .
Keep your FYCOMPA in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your FYCOMPA to anyone else because it may harm them .
Selling or giving away this medicine is against the law .
It is not known if FYCOMPA is safe and effective for partial onset seizures in children under 4 years of age or for primary generalized tonic clonic seizures in patients under 12 years of age .
Before taking FYCOMPA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , includingif you : • have or have had depression , mood problems , aggressive or hostile behavior ( for example , homicidal behavior ) , suicidal thoughts or behavior , or other psychiatric problems .
• have liver or kidney problems • drink alcohol • have abused prescription medicines , street drugs , or alcohol in the past • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if FYCOMPA will harm your unborn baby .
○ If you become pregnant while taking FYCOMPA , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 or go to http : / / www . aedpregnancyregistry . org .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of FYCOMPA and other antiepileptic medicine during pregnancy .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if FYCOMPA passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take FYCOMPA .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take FYCOMPA or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking FYCOMPA with certain other medicines can cause side effects or reduce the benefit of either drug .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • contraceptives ( birth control ) .
FYCOMPA may lower your contraceptive ’ s ability to prevent pregnancy if your contraceptive contains levonorgestrel .
Use an additional non - hormonal form of contraception ( like condoms or a diaphragm and spermicide ) while using FYCOMPA and for 1 month after you have stopped taking FYCOMPA .
• carbamazepine ( CARBATROL , TEGRETOL , TEGRETOL - XR , EQUETRO , EPITOL ) • phenytoin ( DILANTIN , PHENYTEK ) • oxcarbazepine ( TRILEPTAL ) • rifampin ( RIFADIN , RIMACTANE ) • St . John ’ s Wort How should I take FYCOMPA ?
• See the Instructions for Use below for complete information on how to use the dosing syringes and how to measure the dose of FYCOMPA Oral Suspension .
• Take FYCOMPA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much FYCOMPA to take and when to take it .
FYCOMPA is usually taken 1 time a day at bedtime .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose .
Do not change the dose without talking to your healthcare provider .
• If you take FYCOMPA Oral Suspension , shake the bottle well before you take each dose .
• Measure the dose of FYCOMPA Oral Suspension using the bottle adapter and dosing syringes provided .
Donot use a household teaspoon .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about what to do if you miss more than 1 dose of FYCOMPA .
• If you take too much FYCOMPA , call your local Poison Control Center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking FYCOMPA ?
• Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how FYCOMPA affects you .
FYCOMPA may make you dizzy , sleepy , or tired .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking FYCOMPA until you talk to your healthcare provider .
FYCOMPA taken with alcohol or medicines that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
FYCOMPA when taken with alcohol may also make your mood worse , increase anger , confusion , and depression .
What are the possible side effects of FYCOMPA ?
See “ What is the most important information I should know about FYCOMPA ? ”
FYCOMPA may cause other serious side effects , including : • Dizziness , vertigo ( sense of spinning ) , and problems walking normally .
You may have problems walking normally if you are unsteady because you feel dizzy .
These symptoms can increase when the dose of FYCOMPA is increased .
Your risk of feeling dizzy and having problems walking normally may be higher if you are elderly .
• Sleepiness and tiredness .
See “ What should I avoid while taking FYCOMPA ? ”
• Increased risk of falls .
Taking FYCOMPA can increase your chance of falling .
These falls can cause serious injuries .
Your risk of falling may be higher if you are elderly .
• A serious allergic reaction that may affect your skin or other parts of your body such as your liver , kidneys , heart , or blood cells .
This allergic reaction can be life - threatening and can cause death .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : ○ a skin rash , hives ○ fever or swollen glands that do not go away ○ swelling of your face ○ shortness of breath , swelling of the legs , yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes , or dark urine .
The most common side effects of FYCOMPA include : • dizziness • sleepiness • tiredness • irritability • falls • nausea and vomiting • weight gain • vertigo ( sense of spinning ) • problems walking normally • problems with muscle coordination • headache • bruising • abdominal pain • anxiety These are not all of the possible side effects of FYCOMPA .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store FYCOMPA ?
• Store FYCOMPA tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store FYCOMPA oral suspension below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Replace the cap tightly after opening .
• Use FYCOMPA oral suspension within 90 days after the bottle is first opened .
Keep FYCOMPA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of FYCOMPA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use FYCOMPA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give FYCOMPA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about FYCOMPA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in FYCOMPA ?
Active ingredient : perampanel Inactive ingredients ( tablets ) : lactose monohydrate , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Tablets of different strengths also may contain yellow ferric oxide ( 10 mg and 2 mg ) , red ferric oxide ( 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg ) , black ferric oxide ( 8 mg ) , and FD & C blue # 2 ( indigo carmine ) aluminum lake ( 10 mg and 12 mg ) .
Inactive ingredients ( oral suspension ) : sorbitol , microcrystalline cellulose , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , poloxamer , simethicone , citric acid , sodium benzoate , and purified water .
Marketed by Eisai Inc . , Nutley , NJ 07110 FYCOMPA ® is a trademark owned by Eisai R & D Management Co . Ltd .
For more information , go to www . FYCOMPA . com or 1 - 888 - 274 - 2378 .
© 2012 - 2021 Eisai Inc .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 12 / 2021 Instructions for Use FYCOMPA ® ( fī - COM - puh ) ( perampanel ) Oral Suspension Read this Instructions for Use before you start using FYCOMPA Oral Suspension and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Prepare the FYCOMPA Oral Suspension dose You will need the following supplies : See Figure A • FYCOMPA Oral Suspension bottle • Bottle adapter • Dosing syringe ( 2 dosing syringes are included in the FYCOMPA Oral Suspension box ) Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 .
Remove the FYCOMPA Oral Suspension bottle , bottle adapter , and 2 syringes from the box .
See Figure A Step 2 .
Shake the bottle well before each use .
See Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Uncap the bottle and insert the bottle adapter into the bottle by pressing downward .
See Figure C and Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] After the bottle adapter is in place , it cannot be removed .
Step 4 .
Check the dose in milliliters ( mL ) as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Find this number on the syringe .
See Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Push the plunger of the syringe all the way down then insert the syringe into the upright bottle through the opening in the bottle adapter .
See Figure F [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
With the syringe in place , turn the bottle upside down .
Pull the plunger to withdraw the dose prescribed by your healthcare provider ( the amount of liquid medicine in Step 4 ) .
If you see air bubbles in the oral syringe , fully push in the plunger so that the oral solution flows back into the bottle .
Then , withdraw the prescribed dose of oral suspension .
See Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] Measure the mLs of medicine from the white layer at the end of the plunger , not the black layer .
Step 7 .
If the dose is more than 20 mL , you can use : • 2 syringes or • 1 syringe , taking 2 steps to draw up the medicine in that same syringe For example : If the dose is 24 mL , draw up 20 mL in the first syringe and the remaining 4 mL in the second syringe .
or If the dose is 24 mL , draw up 20 mL in the single syringe and squirt the medicine into the mouth , then draw up the remaining 4 mL in that same syringe .
If the dose is more than 20 mL , repeat Steps 4 through 6 when drawing up the remaining dose of medicine .
Step 8 .
Turn the bottle right - side up and remove the syringe from the bottle adapter . See Figure H [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 .
Slowly squirt the FYCOMPA oral suspension directly into the corner of the mouth until all of the liquid medicine is given .
If you need 2 syringes for the dose , slowly squirt the medicine from the first syringe into the mouth , then slowly squirt the medicine from the second syringe into the mouth .
See Figure I [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 .
Rinse the syringe ( or syringes ) with tap water after each use .
See Figure J • Fill a cup with water • Pull back on the plunger and draw the water from the cup into the syringe • Push down on the plunger to release the water into the sink [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 .
Cap the bottle tightly .
The cap will fit over the bottle adapter .
SeeFigure K [ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store FYCOMPA Oral Suspension ?
• Store FYCOMPA oral suspension below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Replace the cap tightly after opening .
• Use FYCOMPA oral suspension within 90 days after the bottle is first opened .
• After 90 days safely throw away any FYCOMPA Oral Suspension that has not been used .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
FYCOMPA ® is a registered trademark owned by Eisai R & D Management Co . , Ltd .
Marketed by Eisai Inc . , Nutley , NJ 07110 © 2012 - 2021 Eisai Inc .
Revised : 12 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 272 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 2 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 272 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 2 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 272 - 14 14 tablets Rx only Fycompa ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 2 mg 2 week sample Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 274 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 4 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 274 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 4 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 274 - 14 14 tablets Rx only Fycompa ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 4 mg 2 week sample Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 276 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 6 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 276 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 6 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 278 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 8 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 278 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 8 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 280 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 10 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 280 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 10 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 282 - 30 30 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 12 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 mg Tablet NDC 62856 - 282 - 90 90 tablets Rx only Fycompa ™ ( perampanel ) tablets CIII 12 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 5 mg / mL Oral Suspension NDC 62856 - 290 - 38 0 . 5 mg / mL Rx only Fycompa ® ( perampanel ) ORAL SUSPENSION CIII 340 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 5 mg / mL Oral Suspension NDC 62856 - 290 - 38 0 . 5 mg / mL Rx only Fycompa ® ( perampanel ) ORAL SUSPENSION CIII 340 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
