1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefazolin and other antibacterial drugs , cefazolin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Cefazolin for Injection is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible bacteria .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated in the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms : Respiratory tract infections ( 1 . 1 ) ; urinary tract infections ( 1 . 2 ) ; skin and skin structure infections ( 1 . 3 ) ; biliary tract infections ( 1 . 4 ) ; bone and joint infections ( 1 . 5 ) ; genital infections ( 1 . 6 ) ; septicemia ( 1 . 7 ) ; endocarditis ( 1 . 8 ) ; and perioperative prophylaxis ( 1 . 9 ) .
1 . 1 Respiratory Tract Infections Respiratory tract infections due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes .
Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of cefazolin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available .
1 . 2 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli and Proteus mirabilis .
1 . 3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Skin and skin structure infections due to S . aureus , S . pyogenes , and Streptococcus agalactiae .
1 . 4 Biliary Tract Infections Biliary infections due to E . coli , various isolates of streptococci , P . mirabilis , and S . aureus .
1 . 5 Bone and Joint Infections Bone and joint infections due to S . aureus .
1 . 6 Genital Infections Genital infections due to E . coli and P . mirabilis .
1 . 7 Septicemia Septicemia due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus , P . mirabilis , and E . coli .
1 . 8 Endocarditis Endocarditis due to S . aureus and S . pyogenes .
1 . 9 Perioperative Prophylaxis The prophylactic administration of cefazolin preoperatively , intraoperatively , and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy , and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those older than 70 years , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice , or common duct bile stones ) .
The perioperative use of cefazolin may also be effective in surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for cultures should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of Cefazolin .
THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION WITH STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 mg per mL AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 mL OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION .
THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION For intravenous use only over approximately 30 minutes .
( 2 ) THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin ( 2 . 1 ) Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CrCl Greater Than or Equal to 55 mL / min ( 2 . 1 ) Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram Every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg Every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram Every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg Every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) * 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams Every 6 hours Perioperative prophylaxis 1 gram to 2 grams ½ to 1 hour prior to start of surgery 500 mg to 1 gram During surgery for lengthy procedures 500 mg to 1 gram Every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively * In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Adult Population Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of Cefazolin .
Cefazolin for Injection should be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , USP to a concentration of 100 mg per mL and further diluted in 50 mL of a compatible solution .
The recommended adult dosages are outlined in Table 1 .
Cefazolin for Injection should be administered intravenously ( IV ) over approximately 30 minutes .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CrCl Greater Than or Equal to 55 mL / min .
* In rare instances , doses up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram Every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg Every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram Every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg Every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) * 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams Every 6 hours 2 . 2 Perioperative Prophylactic Use Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended doses are : • 1 gram to 2 grams I . V . administered ½ hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery .
• For lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) , 500 mg to 1 gram I . V . during surgery ( administration modified depending on the duration of the operative procedure ) .
• 500 mg to 1 gram I . V . every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively .
It is important that ( i ) the preoperative dose be given just ( ½ to 1 hour ) prior to the start of surgery so that adequate antibacterial concentrations are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( ii ) cefazolin may be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient concentrations of the antibacterial drug at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
The prophylactic administration of cefazolin should usually be discontinued within a 24 - hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
2 . 3 Patients with Renal Impairment Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients with renal impairment who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
Cefazolin may be used in patients with renal impairment with the dosage adjustments outlined in Table 2 .
All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection .
Table 2 : Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance Dose Frequency 55 mL / minute or greater Full dose Normal frequency 35 to 54 mL / minute Full dose Every 8 hours or longer 11 to 34 mL / minute ½ usual dose Every 12 hours 10 mL / minute or less ½ usual dose Every 18 to 24 hours 2 . 4 Preparation for Use of Cefazolin for Injection , USP bag SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
Directions for Proper Use of a Pharmacy Bulk Package • NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the hospital pharmacy admixture service only in a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Using aseptic technique , the container closure may be penetrated only one time after reconstitution using a suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage .
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 HOURS from initial reconstitution port closure entry is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations .
This time limit should begin with the introduction of the solvent or diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Discard any unused portion after 4 HOURS .
This pharmacy bulk package is not intended to be dispensed as a unit .
• PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION : DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT , IF THE DRY POWDER IS DARK YELLOW OR BROWN , IF THE SEALS ARE NOT INTACT , OR IF THERE IS ANY OTHER DAMAGE TO THE BAG .
IN SUCH CASES , DISCARD THE BAG IMMEDIATELY .
• After initial reconstitution port entry , use entire contents of the Pharmacy Bulk Package promptly .
Any unused portion must be discarded after 4 HOURS .
• Gather the following items prior to the reconstitution of the product : Appropriate number of bags of Sterile Water for Injection and , depending upon the method of filling , appropriate sterile tubing and adapters .
INSTRUCTION FOR RECONSTITUTION OF THE PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE BAG SmartPak ® The entire contents of the bag and the preparation process ( reconstitution and dilution ) should be completed within 4 hours of initial entry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Document the date and time reconstitution starts in the designated place on the container label .
The entire contents of the bag must be used within 4 hours from the time of initial entry .
• Remove the translucent unthreaded cap from the reconstitution ( smaller ) port and discard it .
• Reconstitute the powder through the reconstitution ( smaller ) port , using Sterile Water for Injection according to the table below Reconstitution Table SmartPak ® Bag Size Amount of Sterile Water Approximate Concentration 100 grams 960 mL 100 mg / mL ( 1 g / 10 mL ) 300 grams 2880 mL 100 mg / mL ( 1 g / 10 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • After reconstitution is complete , remove the transfer needle from the reconstitution port .
• Place the bag on a flat surface of a laminar flow hood and mix for at least 15 minutes for the 100 gram product or 25 minutes for the 300 gram product by rocking gently from side to side .
CAUTION : To avoid possible leakage caused by the heavy weight of the added water , do not shake vigorously or pull strongly on the bag .
• When foam dissipates , visually inspect the bag to verify the solution is clear , colorless to pale yellow and free of particulate matter .
DO NOT USE THE INNER BAG IF PARTICULATE OR FOREIGN MATTER IS PRESENT .
• Unscrew the clear threaded cap from the transfer ( larger ) port and discard it .
Attach sterile tubing and filling adapter unit to the transfer port .
• Reconstituted solution can now be transferred using the transfer port and the filling adapter .
It should be noted that the spike placed into the transfer port of the Pharmacy Bulk Package SmartPak ® is NEVER removed during this procedure and that the reconstitution port is self - sealing .
Dilution • Hang the bag from two eyelets .
• Following reconstitution , transfer 10 mL of the reconstituted solution into transfusion bags , each containing 50 mL of one of the compatible solutions below .
Compatible solutions for dilution are the following : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Detrose Injection , USP • Dilution should be completed within the 4 hour preparation process .
• When diluted according to the instructions above , cefazolin is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Administration Prior to administration , parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 100 grams Cefazolin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® • 300 grams Cefazolin for Injection , USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION Pharmacy Bulk Package bags , 100 grams and 300 grams ( 3 ) THIS IS A PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to cefazolin or other cephalosporin class antibacterial drugs , penicillins or other beta - lactams ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity to Cefazolin or the Cephalosporin Class of Antibacterial Drugs , Penicillins or Other Beta - lactams Cefazolin for Injection , USP is contraindicated in patients who have a history of immediate hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions ) to cefazolin or the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs , penicillins or other beta - lactams [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Cross - hypersensitivity may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue the drug .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use in patients with renal impairment : Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin : Dose adjustment required for patients with CrCl less than 55 mL / min .
( 5 . 2 ) • Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea : May range from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions to Cefazolin , Cephalosporins , Penicillins or Other Beta - lactams Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta - lactam antibacterial drugs .
Before therapy with Cefazolin for Injection , USP is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous immediate hypersensitivity reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins , or carbapenems .
Exercise caution if this product is to be given to penicillin - sensitive patients because cross - hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibacterial drugs has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to Cefazolin for Injection , USP occurs , discontinue the drug .
5 . 2 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Cefazolin for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bags SmartPak ® should not be used in renally impaired patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
As with other beta - lactam antibacterial drugs , seizures may occur if inappropriately high doses are administered to patients with impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / minute ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Clostridium difficile - associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with the use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial drug treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Risk of Development of Drug - resistant Bacteria Prescribing Cefazolin for Injection , USP in the absence of proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
As with other antimicrobials , prolonged use of Cefazolin for Injection , USP may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ' s condition is essential .
Should superinfection occur during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 5 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Urinary Glucose The administration of cefazolin may result in a false - positive reaction with glucose in the urine when using CLINITEST ® tablets .
It is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( e . g . , CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Coombs ' Test Positive direct Coombs tests have been reported during treatment with cefazolin , In hematologic studies or in transfusion - cross - matching procedures when antiglobulin tests are performed on the minor side or in Coombs ' testing of newborns whose mothers have received cephalosporin antibacterial drugs before parturition , it should be recognized that a positive Coombs ' test may be due to the drug .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to cefazolin are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity reactions [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions : gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) and allergic reactions ( anaphylaxis , urticaria , skin rash ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Samson Medical Technologies , L . L . C . at 1 - 877 - 418 - 3600 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The following adverse reactions were reported from clinical trials : Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , mouth ulcers , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , epigastric pain , heartburn , flatus , anorexia , and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Allergic : Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , urticaria , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic : Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic : Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed .
As with other cephalosporins , reports of hepatitis have been received .
Renal : As with other cephalosporins , reports of increased BUN and creatinine levels , as well as renal failure , have been received .
Local Reactions : Instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions : Pruritus ( including genital , vulvar and anal pruritus , genital moniliasis , and vaginitis ) .
Dizziness , fainting , lightheadedness , confusion , weakness , tiredness , hypotension , somnolence and headache .
6 . 2 Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefazolin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibacterials : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , renal impairment , toxic nephropathy , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , hepatic impairment including cholestasis and pancytopenia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Probenecid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood levels .
Probenecid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood concentrations .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Cefazolin for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal Impairment : Cefazolin for Injection USP – Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in renally impaired patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
Lower daily dosage of Cefazolin for Injection is required in patients with impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / min . )
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits at doses of 2000 , 4000 and 240 mg / kg / day or 1 - 3 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefazolin .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery When cefazolin has been administered prior to caesarean section , drug concentrations in cord blood have been approximately one quarter to one third of maternal drug levels .
The drug appears to have no adverse effect on the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when cefazolin is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than a 250 mg adult of cefazolin .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 920 subjects who received cefazolin in clinical studies , 313 ( 34 % ) were 65 years and over , while 138 ( 15 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag , SmartPak ® should not be used in patients with renal impairment who require less than a 250 mg dose of Cefazolin .
When cefazolin is administered to patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / minute ) , lower daily dosage is required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Cefazolin for Injection USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package bag SmartPak ® should not be used in patients who require less than a 250 mg dose of cefazolin .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP , is a sterile , lyophilized , semisynthetic cephalosporin for intravenous administration .
It is the sodium salt of 3 - { [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] - methyl } - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Each Pharmacy Bulk Package contains 48 mg ( 2 . 1 mEq ) of sodium per 1 gram of cefazolin sodium .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP , is supplied in 100 grams and 300 grams SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Packages bags equivalent .
Each SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Package bag contains cefazolin sodium equivalent to 100 grams or 300 grams of cefazolin .
BEFORE ADMINISTRATION , THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE REQUIRES RECONSTITUTION USING STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP TO A CONCENTRATION OF 100 mg per mL AND FURTHER DILUTION IN 50 mL OF A COMPATIBLE SOLUTION AND INFUSED INTRAVENOUSLY .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for intravenous use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
The molecular formula is C14H13N8NaO4S3 .
The molecular weight is 476 . 49 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The pH of the reconstituted solution is between 4 and 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic relationship for cefazolin has not been evaluated in patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for cefazolin is approximately 1 . 8 hours following IV administration .
In a study , using normal volunteers , of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) , cefazolin produced a steady serum level at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of cefazolin in normal volunteers ( N = 12 ) following a single 15 - minute intravenous infusion of 2 grams of Cefazolin for Injection , USP are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean ( Standard Deviation ) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Cefazolin in Normal Volunteers * Tmax reported as median ( range ) N = number of subjects observed ; Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; Tmax = time to maximum plasma concentration ; AUC0 - inf = area under the plasma concentration - time curve extrapolated to infinity ; t ½ = apparent plasma terminal elimination half - life ; CL = total clearance ; Vz = volume of distribution N Cmax ( mcg / mL ) Tmax * ( h ) AUC0 - inf ( mcg * h / mL ) t ½ ( h ) CL ( L / h ) Vz ( L ) Single 2 g Dose as a 15 - Minute I . V . Infusion 12 280 . 9 ( 45 . 9 ) 0 . 25 ( 0 . 25 - 0 . 33 ) 509 . 9 ( 89 . 3 ) 2 . 01 ( 0 . 28 ) 4 . 03 ( 0 . 68 ) 11 . 5 ( 1 . 53 ) Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that cefazolin produces mean peak serum levels approximately equivalent to those seen in normal volunteers .
Bile levels in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum levels by up to five times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile levels of cefazolin are considerably lower than serum levels ( < 1 . 0 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the cefazolin concentration becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of cefazolin across the placenta .
Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
12 . 4 Microbiology PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefazolin and other antibacterial drugs , cefazolin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 12 . 4 ) Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Resistance Predominant mechanisms of bacterial resistance to cephalosporins include the presence of extended - spectrum beta - lactamases and enzymatic hydrolysis .
Antimicrobial Activity Cefazolin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) section .
• Gram - Positive Bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus • Staphylococcus epidermidis • Streptococcus agalactiae • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin , • Gram - Negative Bacteria • Escherichia coli • Proteus mirabilis Most isolates of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri , Serratia spp .
and Pseudomonas spp .
are resistant to cefazolin .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of Cefazolin for Injection , USP have not been performed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cefazolin for Injection , USP , is available in the following SmartPak ® Pharmacy Bulk Packages bags : 100 grams * One Pharmacy Bulk Package bag Product No . 1100 NDC 66288 - 1100 - 1 300 grams ** One Pharmacy Bulk Package bag Product No . 1300 NDC 66288 - 1300 - 1 * Each 100 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package bag contains sterile cefazolin sodium equivalent to 100 grams of cefazolin .
** Each 300 gram Pharmacy Bulk Package bag contains sterile cefazolin sodium equivalent to 300 grams of cefazolin .
SmartPak ® system components are not made with natural rubber latex .
As with other cephalosporins , cefazolin tends to darken depending on storage conditions within the stated recommendations ; however , product potency is not adversely affected .
Storage Conditions Prior to reconstitution , store dry powder at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect From Light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment and discontinuation of cefazolin .
Patients should report to their health care provider any previous allergic reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins or other similar antibacterials .
Patients should be advised that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics , which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterials .
If this occurs , patients should contact a physician as soon as possible .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including cefazolin , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefazolin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefazolin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Rx only SmartPak is a registered trademark of Samson Medical Technologies , L . L . C . Clinitest is a registered trademark of Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics .
Clinistix is a registered trademark of Bayer Healthcare LLC .
C1100i Manufactured for SAMSON MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES , L . L . C . Cherry Hill , NJ 08003 by ACS Dobfar S . p . A . 20067 Tribiano ( Milano ) Italy Principal Display Panel – 100 g Inner Bag Label NDC 66288 - 1100 - 1 SMARTPAK ® CEFAZOLIN For Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 100 grams [ ONE HUNDRED GRAMS ] per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 100 g Outer Bag Label NDC 66288 - 1100 - 1 SMARTPAK ® CEFAZOLIN For Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 100 grams [ ONE HUNDRED GRAMS ] per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 300 g Inner Bag Label NDC 66288 - 1300 - 1 SMARTPAK ® CEFAZOLIN For Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 300 grams [ THREE HUNDRED GRAMS ] per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 300 g Outer Bag Label NDC 66288 - 1300 - 1 SMARTPAK ® CEFAZOLIN For Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION 300 grams [ THREE HUNDRED GRAMS ] per Pharmacy Bulk Package Bag FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
