Physician Information Women who use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP may lose significant bone mineral density .
Bone loss is greater with increasing duration of use and may not be completely reversible .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP during adolescence or early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion , will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP should be used as a long - term birth control method ( e . g . longer than 2 years ) only if other birth control methods are inadequate .
( See WARNINGS . )
Patients should be counseled that this product does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
DESCRIPTION Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP contains medroxyprogesterone acetate , a derivative of progesterone , as its active ingredient .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate is active by the parenteral and oral routes of administration .
It is a white to off - white ; odorless crystalline powder that is stable in air and that melts between 200 ° C and 210 ° C .
It is freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in acetone and dioxane , sparingly soluble in alcohol and methanol , slightly soluble in ether , and insoluble in water .
The chemical name for Medroxyprogesterone Acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 - methyl - , ( 6α - ) .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for intramuscular ( IM ) injection is available in vials and prefilled syringes , each containing 1 mL of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate sterile aqueous suspension 150 mg / mL .
Each mL contains : Medroxyprogesterone acetate 150 mg Polyethylene glycol 3350 28 . 9 mg Polysorbate 80 2 . 41 mg Sodium chloride 8 . 68 mg Methylparaben 1 . 37 mg Propylparaben 0 . 150 mg Water for injection qs When necessary , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid , or both .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , when administered at the recommended dose to women every 3 months , inhibits the secretion of gonadotropins which , in turn , prevents follicular maturation and ovulation and results in endometrial thinning .
These actions produce its contraceptive effect .
Following a single 150 mg IM dose of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , Medroxyprogesterone Acetate concentrations , measured by an extracted radioimmunoassay procedure , increase for approximately 3 weeks to reach peak plasma concentrations of 1 to 7 ng / mL .
The levels then decrease exponentially until they become undetectable ( < 100 pg / mL ) between 120 to 200 days following injection .
Using an unextracted radioimmunoassay procedure for the assay of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate in serum , the apparent half - life for Medroxyprogesterone Acetate following IM administration of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is approximately 50 days .
Women with lower body weights conceive sooner than women with higher body weights after discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
The effect of hepatic and / or renal disease on the pharmacokinetics of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is indicated only for the prevention of pregnancy .
The loss of bone mineral density ( BMD ) in women of all ages and the impact on peak bone mass in adolescents should be considered , along with the decrease in BMD that occurs during pregnancy and / or lactation , in the risk / benefit assessment for women who use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP long - term ( see WARNINGS . )
It is a long - term injectable contraceptive in women when administered at 3 - month ( 13 - week ) intervals .
Dosage does not need to be adjusted for body weight .
In five clinical studies using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , the 12 - month failure rate for the group of women treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP was zero ( no pregnancies reported ) to 0 . 7 by Life - Table method .
Pregnancy rates with contraceptive measures are typically reported for only the first year of use as shown in Table 1 .
Except for intrauterine devices ( IUD ) , implants , sterilization , and Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , the efficacy of these contraceptive measures depends in part on the reliability of use .
The effectiveness of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is dependent on the patient returning every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) for reinjection .
Table 1 Lowest Expected and Typical Failure Rates [ 1 ] Expressed as Percent of Women Experiencing an Accidental Pregnancy in the First Year of Continuous UseMethod Lowest Expected Typical Source : Trussell et al1 Injectable progestogen Medroxyprogesterone 0 . 3 0 . 3 Acetate Implants Norplant ( 6 capsules ) 0 . 2 [ 2 ] 0 . 2 null Female sterilization 0 . 2 0 . 4 Male sterilization 0 . 1 0 . 15 Pill 3 Combined 0 . 1 Progestogen only 0 . 5 IUD 3 Progestasert 2 Copper T 380 A 0 . 8 Condom 2 12 Diaphragm 6 18 Cap 6 18 Spermicides 3 21 Sponge Parous women 9 28 Nulliparous women 6 18 Periodic abstinence 1 – 9 20 Withdrawal 4 18 No method 85 85 [ 1 ] Lowest expected - when used exactly as directed .
Typical - includes those not following directions exactly .
[ 2 ] from Norplant ® package insert .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy .
• Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding .
• Known or suspected malignancy of breast .
• Active thrombophlebitis , or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders , or cerebral vascular disease .
• Significant liver disease .
• Known hypersensitivity to Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ( Medroxyprogesterone Acetate or any of its other ingredients ) .
WARNINGS 1 .
Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density ( BMD ) as bone metabolism accommodates to a lower estrogen level .
This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life .
In both adults and adolescents , the decrease in BMD appears to be at least partially reversible after Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is discontinued and ovarian estrogen production increases .
A study to assess the reversibility of loss of BMD in adolescents is ongoing .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP should be used as a long - term birth control method ( e . g . longer than 2 years ) only if other birth control methods are inadequate .
BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP long term .
In adolescents , interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity .
Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk / benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP in women with osteoporosis risk factors .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis ( e . g . , metabolic bone disease , chronic alcohol and / or tobacco use , anorexia nervosa , strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids ) .
Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake .
BMD Changes in Adult Women In a controlled , clinical study , adult women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for up to 5 years showed spine and hip BMD mean decreases of 5 – 6 % , compared to no significant change in BMD in the control group .
The decline in BMD was more pronounced during the first two years of use , with smaller declines in subsequent years .
Mean changes in lumbar spine BMD of - 2 . 86 % , - 4 . 11 % , - 4 . 89 % , - 4 . 93 % and - 5 . 38 % after 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 years , respectively , were observed .
Mean decreases in BMD of the total hip and femoral neck were similar .
After stopping use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ( 150 mg ) , there was partial recovery of BMD toward baseline values during the 2 - year post - therapy period .
Longer duration of treatment was associated with less complete recovery during this 2 - year period following the last injection .
Table 2 shows the extent of recovery of BMD for women who completed 5 years of treatment .
Table 2 .
Mean Percent Change from Baseline in BMD in Adults by Skeletal Site and CohortTime in Study Spine Total Hip Femoral Neck Medroxy - progesterone Acetate [ 1 ] Control [ 2 ] Medroxy - progesterone Acetate null Control null Medroxy - progesterone Acetate null Control null 5 years n = 33 n = 105 n = 21 n = 65 n = 34 n = 106 - 5 . 38 % 0 . 43 % - 5 . 16 % 0 . 19 % - 6 . 12 % - 0 . 27 % 7 years n = 12 n = 60 n = 7 n = 39 n = 13 n = 63 - 3 . 13 % 0 . 53 % - 1 . 34 % 0 . 94 % - 5 . 38 % - 0 . 11 % [ 1 ] The treatment group consisted of women who received Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for 5 years and were then followed for 2 years post - use .
[ 2 ] The control group consisted of women who did not use hormonal contraception and were followed for 7 years .
BMD Changes in Adolescent Females ( 12 – 18 years of age ) Preliminary results from an ongoing , open - label , self - selected , non - randomized clinical study of adolescent females ( 12 – 18 years ) also showed that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP use was associated with a significant decline in BMD from baseline ( Table 3 ) .
In general , adolescents increase bone density during the period of growth following menarche , as seen in the untreated cohort .
However , the two cohorts were not matched at baseline for age , gynecologic age , race , BMD and other factors that influence the rate of acquisition of bone mineral density , with the result that they differed with respect to these demographic factors .
Preliminary data from the small number of adolescents participating in the 2 - year post - use observation period demonstrated partial recovery of BMD .
Table 3 .
Mean Percent Change from Baseline in BMD in Adolescents by Skeletal Site and CohortDuration of Treatment Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ( 150 mg IM ) Unmatched , Untreated Cohort N Mean % Change N Mean % Change Total Hip BMD Week 60 ( 1 . 2 years ) 103 - 2 . 82 171 1 . 32 Week 144 ( 2 . 8 years ) 45 - 6 . 16 111 1 . 74 Week 240 ( 4 . 6 years ) 9 - 6 . 92 69 1 . 12 Femoral Neck BMD Week 60 103 - 3 . 05 171 1 . 87 Week 144 45 - 6 . 01 111 2 . 54 Week 240 9 - 6 . 06 69 1 . 45 Lumbar Spine BMD Week 60 104 - 2 . 42 171 3 . 47 Week 144 46 - 2 . 78 111 5 . 41 Week 240 9 - 4 . 17 70 5 . 12 2 .
Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns .
Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting , or rarely , heavy or continuous bleeding .
If abnormal bleeding persists or is severe , appropriate investigation should be instituted to rule out the possibility of organic pathology , and appropriate treatment should be instituted when necessary .
As women continue using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea .
By month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55 % of women , and by month 24 amenorrhea was reported by 68 % of women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP . 2 3 .
Cancer Risks Long - term case - controlled surveillance of users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP found slight or no increased overall risk of breast cancer3 and no overall increased risk of ovarian , 4 liver , 5 or cervical6 cancer and a prolonged , protective effect of reducing the risk of endometrial7 cancer in the population of users .
A pooled analysis14 from two case - control studies , the World Health Organization Study3 and the New Zealand Study13 , reported the relative risk ( RR ) of breast cancer for women who had ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP as 1 . 1 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0 . 97 to 1 . 4 ) .
Overall , there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2 . 0 ( 95 % CI 1 . 5 to 2 . 8 ) .
The World Health Organization Study3 , a component of the pooled analysis14 described above , showed an increased RR of 2 . 19 ( 95 % CI 1 . 23 to 3 . 89 ) of breast cancer associated with use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age .
However , the overall RR for ever - users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP was only 1 . 2 ( 95 % CI 0 . 96 to 1 . 52 ) .
[ NOTE : A RR of 1 . 0 indicates neither an increased nor a decreased risk of cancer associated with the use of the drug , relative to no use of the drug .
In the case of the subpopulation with a RR of 2 . 19 , the 95 % CI is fairly wide and does not include the value of 1 . 0 , thus inferring an increased risk of breast cancer in the defined subgroup relative to nonusers .
The value of 2 . 19 means that women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who are under 35 years of age have a 2 . 19 fold ( 95 % CI 1 . 23 to 3 . 89 - fold ) increased risk of breast cancer relative to nonusers .
The National Cancer Institute8 reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women , all races , age 30 to 34 years of 26 . 7 per 100 , 000 .
A RR of 2 . 19 , thus , increases the possible risk from 26 . 7 to 58 . 5 cases per 100 , 000 women .
The attributable risk , thus , is 31 . 8 per 100 , 000 women per year . ]
A statistically insignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous - cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years ( RR 1 . 22 to 1 . 28 and 95 % CI 0 . 93 to 1 . 70 ) .
The overall , nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous - cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP was estimated to be 1 . 11 ( 95 % CI 0 . 96 to 1 . 29 ) .
No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed .
4 .
Thromboembolic Disorders The physician should be alert to the earliest manifestations of thrombotic disorders ( thrombophlebitis , pulmonary embolism , cerebrovascular disorders , and retinal thrombosis ) .
Should any of these occur or be suspected , the drug should not be readministered .
5 .
Ocular Disorders Medication should not be readministered pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia , or migraine .
If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions , medication should not be readministered .
6 .
Unexpected Pregnancies To ensure that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is not administered inadvertently to a pregnant woman , the first injection must be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period ; ONLY within the first 5 - days postpartum if not breast - feeding , and if exclusively breast - feeding , ONLY at the sixth postpartum week ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Neonates from unexpected pregnancies that occur 1 to 2 months after injection of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP may be at an increased risk of low birth weight , which , in turn , is associated with an increased risk of neonatal death .
The attributable risk is low because such pregnancies are uncommon . 9 , 10 A significant increase in incidence of polysyndactyly and chromosomal anomalies was observed among infants of users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , the former being most pronounced in women under 30 years of age .
The unrelated nature of these defects , the lack of confirmation from other studies , the distant preconceptual exposure to Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , and the chance effects due to multiple statistical comparisons , make a causal association unlikely . 11 Neonates exposed to Medroxyprogesterone Acetate in utero and followed to adolescence , showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical , intellectual , sexual , or social development .
Several reports suggest an association between intrauterine exposure to progestational drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy and genital abnormalities in male and female fetuses .
The risk of hypospadias ( five to eight per 1 , 000 male births in the general population ) may be approximately doubled with exposure to these drugs .
There are insufficient data to quantify the risk to exposed female fetuses , but because some of these drugs induce mild virilization of the external genitalia of the female fetus and because of the increased association of hypospadias in the male fetus , it is prudent to avoid the use of these drugs during the first trimester of pregnancy .
To ensure that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is not administered inadvertently to a pregnant woman , it is important that the first injection be given only during the first 5 days after the onset of a normal menstrual period within 5 days postpartum if not breast - feeding and if breast - feeding , at the sixth week postpartum ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
7 .
Ectopic Pregnancy Health - care providers should be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain .
8 .
Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
In nursing mothers treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , milk composition , quality , and amount are not adversely affected .
Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty .
No adverse effects have been noted .
9 .
Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
If an anaphylactic reaction occurs appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Serious anaphylactic reactions require emergency medical treatment .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL 1 .
Physical Examination It is good medical practice for all women to have annual history and physical examinations , including women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
The physical examination , however , may be deferred until after initiation of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP if requested by the woman and judged appropriate by the clinician .
The physical examination should include special reference to blood pressure , breasts , abdomen and pelvic organs , including cervical cytology and relevant laboratory tests .
In case of undiagnosed , persistent or recurrent abnormal vaginal bleeding , appropriate measures should be conducted to rule out malignancy .
Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care .
2 .
Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions that might be influenced by this condition , such as epilepsy , migraine , asthma , and cardiac or renal dysfunction , require careful observation .
3 .
Weight Changes There is a tendency for women to gain weight while on therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
From an initial average body weight of 136 lb , women who completed 1 year of therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP gained an average of 5 . 4 lb .
Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8 . 1 lb .
Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13 . 8 lb .
Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16 . 5 lb .
Two percent of women withdrew from a large - scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain .
4 .
Return of Fertility Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP has a prolonged contraceptive effect .
In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP to become pregnant , data are available for 61 % of them .
Based on Life - Table analysis of these data , it is expected that 68 % of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months , 83 % may conceive within 15 months , and 93 % may conceive within 18 months from the last injection .
The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months , and is unrelated to the duration of use .
No data are available for 39 % of the patients who discontinued Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP to become pregnant and who were lost to follow - up or changed their mind .
5 .
CNS Disorders and Convulsions Patients who have a history of psychic depression should be carefully observed and the drug not be readministered if the depression recurs .
There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
Association with drug use or pre - existing conditions is not clear .
6 .
Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP treatment .
The mechanism of this decrease is obscure .
For this reason , diabetic patients should be carefully observed while receiving such therapy .
7 .
Liver Function If jaundice develops , consideration should be given to not readministering the drug .
8 .
Protection Against Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that this product does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with the Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP may significantly depress the serum concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate . 12 Users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP should be warned of the possibility of decreased efficacy with the use of this or any related drugs .
LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP : • ( a ) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased ( eg , progesterone , estradiol , pregnanediol , testosterone , cortisol ) .
• ( b ) Gonadotropin levels are decreased .
• ( c ) Sex - hormone - binding - globulin concentrations are decreased .
• ( d ) Protein - bound iodine and butanol extractable protein - bound iodine may increase .
T3 - uptake values may decrease .
• ( e ) Coagulation test values for prothrombin ( Factor II ) , and Factors VII , VIII , IX , and X may increase .
• ( f ) Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased .
• ( g ) The effects of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent .
Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol , triglycerides , low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol , and high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol have been observed in studies .
CARCINOGENESIS See " WARNINGS " section 3 .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category X See " WARNINGS " section 6 .
NURSING MOTHERS See " WARNINGS " section 8 .
PEDIATRIC USE Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is not indicated before menarche .
Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is associated with significant loss of BMD .
This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion .
In adolescents , interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk of osteoporotic fractures in later life .
Other than concerns about loss of BMD , the safety and effectiveness are expected to be the same for postmenarchal adolescents and adult women .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT See Patient Labeling .
Patient labeling is included with each single - dose vial and prefilled syringe of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP to help describe its characteristics to the patient .
It is recommended that prospective users be given this labeling and be informed about the risks and benefits associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , as compared with other forms of contraception or with no contraception at all .
It is recommended that physicians or other health - care providers responsible for those patients advise them at the beginning of treatment that their menstrual cycle may be disrupted and that irregular and unpredictable bleeding or spotting results , and that this usually decreases to the point of amenorrhea as treatment with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP continues , without other therapy being required .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In the largest clinical trial with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , over 3 , 900 women , who were treated for up to 7 years , reported the following adverse reactions , which may or may not be related to the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
The following adverse reactions were reported by more than 5 % of subjects : • Menstrual irregularities ( bleeding or amenorrhea , or both ) • Abdominal pain or discomfort • Weight changes • Dizziness • Headache • Asthenia ( weakness or fatigue ) • Nervousness Adverse reactions reported by 1 % to 5 % of subjects using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP were : • Decreased libido or anorgasmia • Pelvic pain • Backache • Breast pain • Leg cramps • No hair growth or alopecia • Depression • Bloating • Nausea • Rash • Insomnia • Edema • Leukorrhea • Hot flashes • Acne • Arthralgia • Vaginitis Events reported by fewer than 1 % of subjects included : galactorrhea , melasma , chloasma , convulsions , changes in appetite , gastrointestinal disturbances , jaundice , genitourinary infections , vaginal cysts , dyspareunia , paresthesia , chest pain , pulmonary embolus , allergic reactions , anemia , drowsiness , syncope , dyspnea and asthma , tachycardia , fever , excessive sweating and body odor , dry skin , chills , increased libido , excessive thirst , hoarseness , pain at injection site , blood dyscrasia , rectal bleeding , changes in breast size , breast lumps or nipple bleeding , axillary swelling , breast cancer , prevention of lactation , sensation of pregnancy , lack of return to fertility , paralysis , facial palsy , scleroderma , osteoporosis , uterine hyperplasia , cervical cancer , varicose veins , dysmenorrhea , hirsutism , unexpected pregnancy , thrombophlebitis , deep vein thrombosis .
Postmarketing Experience There have been rare cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported postmarketing in patients taking Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
In addition , there have been voluntary reports of anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Both the 1 mL vial and the 1 mL prefilled syringe of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension .
The recommended dose is 150 mg of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) administered by deep , IM injection in the gluteal or deltoid muscle .
To ensure the patient is not pregnant at the time of the first injection , the first injection MUST be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period ; ONLY within the first 5 - days postpartum if not breast - feeding ; and if exclusively breast - feeding , ONLY at the sixth postpartum week .
If the time interval between injections is greater than 13 weeks , the physician should determine that the patient is not pregnant before administering the drug .
The efficacy of depends on adherence to the dosage schedule of a Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP administration .
HOW SUPPLIED Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ( Medroxyprogesterone Acetate sterile aqueous suspension 150 mg / mL ) is available as : 1 mL vial NDC 54868 - 5257 - 0 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
REFERENCES • Trussell J , Hatcher RA , Cates W Jr , Stewart FH , Kost K .
A guide to interpreting contraceptive efficacy studies .
ObstetGynecol .
1990 ; 76 : 558 – 567 .
• Schwallie PC , Assenzo JR .
Contraceptive use - efficacy study utilizing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate administered as an intramuscular injection once every 90 days .
Fertil Steril .
1973 ; 24 : 331 – 339 .
• WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Breast cancer and depot - medroxyprogesterone acetate : a multi - national study .
Lancet .
1991 ; 338 : 833 – 838 .
• WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Depot - Medroxyprogesterone Acetate ( DMPA ) and risk of epithelial ovarian cancer .
Int J Cancer .
1991 ; 49 : 191 – 195 .
• WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Depot - Medroxyprogesterone Acetate ( DMPA ) and risk of liver cancer .
Int J Cancer .
1991 ; 49 : 182185 .
• WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Depot - Medroxyprogesterone Acetate ( DMPA ) and risk of invasive squamous - cell cervical cancer .
Contraception .
1992 ; 45 : 299 – 312 .
• WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Depot - Medroxyprogesterone Acetate ( DMPA ) and risk of endometrial cancer .
Int J Cancer .
1991 ; 49 : 186 – 190 .
• Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results : Incidence and Mortality Data , 1973 – 1977 .
National Cancer Institute Monograph , 57 : June 1981 .
( NIH publication No . 81 - 2330 ) .
• Gray RH , Pardthaisong T .
In Utero exposure to steroid contraceptives and survival during infancy .
Am J Epidemiol .
1991 ; 134 : 804 – 811 .
• Pardthaisong T , Gray RH .
In Utero exposure to steroid contraceptives and outcome of pregnancy .
Am J Epidemiol .
1991 ; 134 : 795 – 803 .
• Pardthaisong T , Gray RH , McDaniel EB , Chandacham A . Steroid contraceptive use and pregnancy outcome .
Teratology .
1988 ; 38 : 51 – 58 .
• Van Deijk WA , Biljham GH , Mellink WAM , Meulenberg PMM .
Influence of aminoglutethimide on plasma levels of medroxyprogesterone acetate : its correlation with serum cortisol .
Cancer Treatment Reports .
1985 ; 69 : 1 , 85 – 90 .
• Paul C , Skegg DCG , Spears GFS .
Depot medroxyprogesterone ( Depo - Provera ) and risk of breast cancer .
Br Med J . 1989 ; 299 : 759 – 762 .
• Skegg DCG , Noonan EA , Paul C , Spears GFS , Meirik O , Thomas DB .
Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate and Breast Cancer : A Pooled Analysis from the World Health Organization and New Zealand Studies .
JAMA .
1995 ; 273 ( 10 ) : 799 – 804 .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0150 - 5 . 0 June 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP Patient Labeling Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP may cause you to lose calcium stored in your bones .
The longer you use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP the more calcium you are likely to lose .
The calcium may not return completely once you stop using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
Loss of calcium may cause weak , porous bones ( osteoporosis ) that could increase the risk that your bones might break , especially after menopause .
It is not known whether your risk of developing osteoporosis may be greater if you are a teenager when you start to use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
You should use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP long term ( for example , more than two years ) only if other methods of birth control are not right for you .
( See " Risks of Using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP " ) This product is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Introduction Every woman who considers using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP needs to understand the benefits and risks of this form of birth control and to discuss them with her health - care provider .
This leaflet is intended to give you much of the information you will need in order to decide if Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is the right choice for you .
Your health - care provider will help you to compare Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP with other contraceptive methods and will answer any questions you have after you have read this information .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is given as an intramuscular injection ( a shot ) in the buttock or upper arm once every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) .
Promptly at the end of the 3 - month interval , you will need to return to your health - care provider for your next injection in order to continue your contraceptive protection .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP contains medroxyprogesterone acetate , a chemical similar to ( but not the same as ) the natural hormone progesterone that is produced by your ovaries during the second half of your menstrual cycle .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP acts by preventing your egg cells from ripening .
If an egg is not released from the ovaries during your menstrual cycle , it cannot become fertilized by sperm and result in pregnancy .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP also causes changes in the lining of your uterus that make it less likely for pregnancy to occur .
Effectiveness of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP To ensure that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is not administered inadvertently to a pregnant woman , the first injection must be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period ; ONLY within the first 5 - days postpartum if not breast - feeding , and if exclusively breast - feeding , ONLY at the sixth postpartum week ( see Administration of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ) .
The efficacy of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP depends on adherence to the recommended dosage schedule .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is over 99 % effective , making it one of the most reliable methods of birth control available .
This means that the average annual pregnancy rate is less than one for every 100 women who use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
The effectiveness of most contraceptive methods depends , in part , on how reliably each woman uses the method .
The effectiveness of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP depends only on the patient returning every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) for her next injection .
The following table shows the percent of women who become pregnant while using different kinds of contraceptive methods .
It gives both the lowest expected rate of pregnancy ( the rate expected in women who use each method exactly as it should be used ) and the typical rate of pregnancy ( which includes women who became pregnant because they forgot to use their birth control or because they did not follow the directions exactly ) .
Percent of Women Experiencing an Accidental Pregnancy in the First Year of Continuous UseMethod Lowest Typical Source : Trussell et al ; Obstet Gynecol 1990 ; 76 : 558 – 567 .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate 0 . 3 0 . 3 Implants ( Norplant ) 0 . 2 [ 1 ] 0 . 2 null Female sterilization 0 . 2 0 . 4 Male sterilization 0 . 1 0 . 15 Oral contraceptives ( pill ) — 3 Combined 0 . 1 — Progestogen only 0 . 5 — IUD — 3 Progestasert 2 — Copper T 380 A 0 . 8 — Condom ( without spermicide ) 2 12 Diaphragm ( with spermicide ) 6 18 Cervical cap 6 18 Withdrawal 4 18 Periodic abstinence 1 – 9 20 Spermicide alone 3 21 Vaginal sponge — — used before childbirth 6 18 used after childbirth 9 28 No method 85 85 [ 1 ] From Norplant ® package insert .
Who Should Not Use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP Certain women should not use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
You should not use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP if you have any of the following conditions : • if you think you might be pregnant • if you have any vaginal bleeding without a known reason • if you have had cancer of the breast • if you have had a stroke • if you have or have had blood clots ( phlebitis ) in your legs • if you have problems with your liver or liver disease • if you are allergic to Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP ( medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients ) Other Things to Consider Before Choosing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP Before your doctor prescribes Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , you will have a physical examination .
It is important to tell your doctor or health - care provider if you have any of the following : • a family history of cancer of the breast • an abnormal mammogram ( breast X - ray ) , fibrocystic breast disease , breast nodules or lumps , or bleeding from your nipples • kidney disease • irregular or scanty menstrual periods • high blood pressure • migraine headaches • asthma • epilepsy ( convulsions or seizures ) • diabetes or a family history of diabetes • a history of depression • if you are taking any prescription or over - the - counter medications This product is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against transmission of HIV ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydia , genital herpes , genital warts , gonorrhea , hepatitis B , and syphilis .
Return of Fertility Because Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is a long - acting birth control method , it takes some time after your last injection for its effect to wear off .
Based on the results from a large study done in the United States , of those women who stop using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP in order to become pregnant , about half of those who become pregnant do so in about 10 months after their last injection ; about two - thirds of those who become pregnant do so in about 12 months , about 83 % of those who become pregnant do so in about 15 months , and about 93 % of those who become pregnant do so in about 18 months after their last injection .
The length of time you use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP has no effect on how long it takes you to become pregnant after you stop using it .
Risks of Using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP 1 .
Losing Calcium from Your Bones Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP use may decrease the amount of calcium in your bones .
The longer you are on Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP the more calcium you may lose .
This increases the risk of your bones weakening if you use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP continuously for a long time ( for more than 2 years ) .
The loss of calcium may increase your risk of osteoporosis and broken bones , particularly after your menopause .
Calcium is generally added to the bones during teenage years .
The decrease of calcium in your bones is of most concern if you are a teenager or have the following risk factors : • - bone disease • - anorexia nervosa ( an eating disorder ) • - a strong family history of osteoporosis • - drug use that can lower the amount of calcium in bones ( drugs for epilepsy or steroids ) , or • - drinking a lot of alcohol or smoking a lot .
If you need a birth control method for more than 2 years , your healthcare provider may ask you to switch to another birth control method or ask you to have a test of your bones before continuing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , especially if you have other risks for weak bones .
When Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is stopped , the calcium in bones begins to come back .
Your healthcare provider may tell you take calcium and Vitamin D as this may lessen the loss of calcium from your bones .
2 .
Irregular Menstrual Bleeding The side effect reported most frequently by women who use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception is a change in their normal menstrual cycle .
During the first year of using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , you might have one or more of the following changes : • irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting , • an increase or decrease in menstrual bleeding , or • no bleeding at all .
Unusually heavy or continuous bleeding , however , is not a usual effect of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP and if this happens you should see your health - care provider right away .
With continued use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , bleeding usually decreases and many women stop having periods completely .
In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , 55 % of the women studied reported no menstrual bleeding ( amenorrhea ) after 1 year of use and 68 % of the women studied reported no menstrual bleeding after 2 years of use .
The reason that your periods stop is because Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP causes a resting state in your ovaries .
When your ovaries do not release an egg monthly , the regular monthly growth of the lining of your uterus does not occur and , therefore , the bleeding that comes with your normal menstruation does not take place .
When you stop using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP your menstrual period will usually , in time , return to its normal cycle .
3 .
Cancer Studies of women who have used different forms of contraception found that women who used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception had no increased overall risk of developing cancer of the breast , ovary , uterus , cervix , or liver .
However , women under 35 years of age whose first exposure to Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP was within the previous 4 to 5 years may have a slightly increased risk of developing breast cancer similar to that seen with oral contraceptives .
You should discuss this with your health - care provider .
4 .
Unexpected Pregnancy Because Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is such an effective contraceptive method , the risk of unexpected pregnancy for women who get their shots regularly ( every 3 months [ 13 weeks ] ) is very low .
While there have been reports of an increased risk of low birth weight and neonatal infant death or other health problems in infants conceived close to the time of injection , such pregnancies are uncommon .
If you think you may have become pregnant while using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception , see your health - care provider as soon as possible .
5 .
Allergic Reactions Severe allergic reactions known as anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in some women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
6 .
Other Risks Women who use hormone - based contraceptives may have an increased risk of blood clots or stroke .
Also , if a contraceptive method fails , there is a possibility that the fertilized egg will begin to develop outside of the uterus ( ectopic pregnancy ) .
While these events are rare , you should tell your health - care provider if you have any of the Warning Signals listed in the next section .
Warning Signals If any of these problems occur following an injection of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , call your healthcare provider immediately : • Sharp chest pain , coughing up of blood , or sudden shortness of breath ( indicating a possible clot in the lung ) • Sudden severe headache or vomiting , dizziness or fainting , problems with your eyesight or speech , weakness , or numbness in an arm or leg ( indicating a possible stroke ) • Severe pain or swelling in the calf ( indicating a possible clot in the leg ) • Unusually heavy vaginal bleeding • Severe pain or tenderness in the lower abdominal area • Persistent pain , pus , or bleeding at the injection site Side Effects of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP 1 .
Weight Gain You may experience a weight gain while you are using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
About two - thirds of the women who used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP in the clinical trials reported a weight gain of about 5 pounds during the first year of use .
You may continue to gain weight after the first year .
Women in one large study who used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for 2 years gained an average total of 8 . 1 pounds over those 2 years , or approximately 4 pounds per year .
Women who continued for 4 years gained an average total of 13 . 8 pounds over those 4 years , or approximately 3 . 5 pounds per year .
Women who continued for 6 years gained an average total of 16 . 5 pounds over those 6 years , or approximately 2 . 75 pounds per year .
2 .
Other Side Effects In a clinical study of over 3 , 900 women who used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for up to 7 years , some women reported the following effects that may or may not have been related to their use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP : • irregular menstrual bleeding • swelling of the hands or feet • amenorrhea • backache • headache • depression • nervousness • insomnia • abdominal cramps • acne • dizziness • pelvic pain • weakness or fatigue • no hair growth or excessive hair loss • decreased sexual desire • rash • leg cramps • hot flashes • nausea • joint pain • vaginal discharge or irritation • breast swelling and tenderness • bloating Other problems were reported by very few of the women in the clinical trials , but some of these could be serious .
These include : convulsions , jaundice , urinary tract infections , allergic reactions , fainting , paralysis , osteoporosis , lack of return to fertility , deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolus , breast cancer , or cervical cancer .
If these or any other problems occur during your use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP , discuss them with your health - care provider .
General Precautions 1 .
Missed Periods During the time you are using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception , you may skip a period , or your periods may stop completely .
If you have been receiving your injection of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP regularly every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) , then you are probably not pregnant .
However , if you think that you may be pregnant , see your health - care provider .
2 .
Laboratory Test Interactions If you are scheduled for any laboratory tests , tell your health - care provider that you are using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception .
Certain blood tests are affected by hormones such as Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
3 .
Drug Interactions Cytadren ( aminoglutethimide ) is an anticancer drug that may significantly decrease the effectiveness of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP if the two drugs are given during the same time .
4 .
Nursing Mothers Although Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP can be passed to the nursing infant in the breast milk , no harmful effects have been found in these children .
Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP does not prevent the breasts from producing milk , so it can be used by nursing mothers .
However , to minimize the amount of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP that is passed to the infant in the first weeks after birth , you should wait until 6 weeks after childbirth before you start using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP for contraception .
Administration of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP The recommended dose of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP is 150 mg every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) given in a single intramuscular injection in the buttock or upper arm .
To ensure that you are not pregnant at the time of the first injection , it is essential that the injection be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period .
If used following the delivery of a child , the first injection of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP MUST be given within 5 days after childbirth if you are not breast - feeding , or if you are exclusively breast - feeding , the injection MUST be given 6 weeks after childbirth .
If you wait longer than 3 months ( 13 weeks ) between injections , or longer than 6 weeks after delivery , your health - care provider should determine that you are not pregnant before giving you your injection of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension , USP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0152 - 5 . 0 June 2008 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial NDC 54868 - 5257 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension , USP 150 mg in 1 mL Intramuscular Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
