Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 2 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AKTEN ® is indicated for ocular surface anesthesia during ophthalmologic procedures .
AKTEN ® is a local anesthetic indicated for ocular surface anesthesia during ophthalmologic procedures .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of AKTEN ® is 2 drops applied to the ocular surface in the area of the planned procedure .
AKTEN ® may be reapplied to maintain anesthetic effect .
The recommended dose of AKTEN ® is 2 drops applied to the ocular surface in the area of the planned procedure .
Additional anesthesia may be reapplied as needed .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AKTEN ® Ophthalmic Gel , 3 . 5 % contains 35 mg per mL of lidocaine hydrochloride for topical ophthalmic administration .
AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % ( 35 mg / mL ) Ophthalmic Gel .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • For Topical Ophthalmic Use : Not for Injection .
( 5 . 1 ) • Corneal Opacification : Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss .
( 5 . 2 ) • For Administration by Healthcare Provider : AKTEN ® is not intended for patient self - administration .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 For Topical Ophthalmic Use AKTEN ® is indicated for topical ophthalmic use .
Not for Injection .
5 . 2 Corneal Opacification Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss .
5 . 3 For Administration by Healthcare Provider AKTEN ® is indicated for administration under the direct supervision of a healthcare provider .
AKTEN ® is not intended for patient self - administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are conjunctival hyperemia , corneal epithelial changes , headache , and burning upon instillation .
Most common adverse reactions are conjunctival hyperemia , corneal epithelial changes , headache , and burning upon instillation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn Operating Company LLC at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Reproduction studies for lidocaine have been performed in both rats and rabbits .
There was no evidence of harm to the fetus at subcutaneous doses up to 50 mg / kg lidocaine ( more than 800 fold greater than the human dose on a body weight basis ) in the rat model .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Lidocaine is secreted in human milk .
The clinical significance of this observation is unknown .
Although no systemic exposure is expected with administration of AKTEN ® , caution should be exercised when AKTEN ® is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have been extrapolated from studies in older subjects and studies in pediatric patients using different formulations of lidocaine .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss .
Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics or to unintended subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic solution .
However , topical ocular application of AKTEN ® is not expected to result in systemic exposure .
11 DESCRIPTION AKTEN ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride ophthalmic gel ) 3 . 5 % is a sterile , preservative - free , single - patient use ophthalmic gel preparation for topical ocular anesthesia .
Lidocaine hydrochloride is designated chemically as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) monohydrochloride with a molecular formula of C14H22N2O • HCl and molecular weight of 270 . 8 .
The structural formula of the active ingredient is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKTEN ® contains 35 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride per mL as the active ingredient .
AKTEN ® also contains Hypromellose , Sodium Chloride , and Water for Injection as inactive ingredients in the 1 mL tube configuration .
AKTEN ® contains Hypromellose , Sodium Chloride , and Water for Injection as inactive ingredients in the 5 mL in 10 mL bottle configuration .
The pH may be adjusted to 5 . 5 to 7 . 5 with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action AKTEN ® is a local anesthetic agent that stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Anesthesia generally occurs between 20 seconds to 1 minute and persists for 5 to 30 minutes .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes .
Its rate and extent of absorption depend upon various factors such as concentration , the specific site of application , viscosity of the agent , and duration of exposure .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacologic / toxicologic actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged twofold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of AKTEN ® .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effect of AKTEN ® on ocular anesthesia was studied in a multi - center , randomized , controlled , double - blind study .
A total of 209 subjects were enrolled , with 54 , 51 , 53 , and 51 subjects randomized to the sham , AKTEN ® 1 . 5 % , AKTEN ® 2 . 5 % , and AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % groups , respectively .
Ocular anesthesia was achieved within 5 minutes of anesthetic application by 47 of 51 subjects ( 92 % ) in the AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % group .
The mean time to anesthesia onset ranged from 20 seconds to 5 minutes and was not affected by AKTEN ® dose .
The mean time to anesthesia onset was approximately 60 seconds , with a median onset time of 40 seconds for the AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % group .
Among the subjects in the AKTEN ® groups who achieved anesthesia within 5 minutes , approximately 90 % had achieved anesthesia within 60 seconds of application .
The duration of anesthesia generally ranged from approximately 5 minutes to 30 minutes , with mean anesthesia durations of approximately 15 minutes for the AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % group .
Approximately 84 % of the subjects in the AKTEN ® 3 . 5 % group experienced anesthesia for at least 5 minutes , approximately 55 % of subjects experienced anesthesia for 10 minutes or longer and 27 % experienced anesthesia for 15 minutes or longer .
The anesthetic effect of additional applications of AKTEN ® has not been evaluated .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AKTEN ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride ophthalmic gel ) 3 . 5 % is supplied as a clear gel for single - patient use as follows : NDC 17478 - 792 - 01 1 mL fill in a white polyfoil tube * NDC 17478 - 792 - 25 Package of 25 units of 1 mL fill in a white polyfoil tube * ( NDC 17478 - 792 - 01 ) NDC 17478 - 792 - 10 5 mL fill in a 10 mL natural , round plastic dropper bottle Storage Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Keep container closed and protected from light in the original carton until use .
Discard after use .
AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Lake Forest , IL 60045 * Made in Switzerland Patent Pending AE00N Revised 2 / 2022 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 792 - 01 Akten ® ( lidocaine HCl ophthalmic gel ) 3 . 5 % 1 mL Sterile Rx only PRESERVATIVE FREE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 17478 - 792 - 01 Akten ® ( lidocaine hydrochloride ophthalmic gel ) 3 . 5 % For Topical Ophthalmic Use Only Rx only 1 mL Sterile PRESERVATIVE FREE For Single - Patient Use Only .
Discard Unused Portion .
Akorn Logo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
