DESCRIPTION Methaver is an orally administered prescription vitamin specifically formulated for the dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels , as well as other Vitamin B supplementation .
Methaver should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Each capsule contains the following ingredients : Each capsule contains : Folic Acid ............................................................................ 1 mg Thiamin hydrochloride ..
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
27 mg Riboflavin … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
29 mg Pyridoxine hydrochloride .............. , ................................... 50 mg Methylcobalamin … … … … … .... … .
… … … … … ..
… … … … … 2 mg Each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : Lactose Monohydrate , Gelatin ( bovine ) , Silicon Dioxide , Magnesium Stearate , Titanium Dioxide , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 .
* This product is a prescription vitamin that – due to increased folate levels ( AUG 2 1973 FR 20750 ) , requires an Rx on the label because of increased risk associated with masking of B12 deficiency .
As such , this product requires licensed medical supervision , an Rx status , and a National Drug Code ( NDC ) as required by pedigree reporting requirements .
FOLAT E REGULAT ION The term " folate " are B vitamins that include folic acid and any forms of active pteroylglutamates regardless of the reduction state of the molecule .
Folates , or vitamin B9 , are primarily hydrolyzed in the intestinal jejunum and the liver to the active circulating form of folate .
Folic acid , including reduced forms1 such as folinic acid , may obscure pernicious anemia above 0 . 1 mg doses , and must be administered under the supervision o f a licensed medical practitioner .
INDICAT IONS AND USAGE Methaver is indicated for the distinct nutritional requirements of patients in need of dietary supplementation as determined by a licensed medical practitioner .
Methaver should be administered under the supervision o f a licensed medical practitioner .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS Caution is recommended in patients with a history of bipolar illness .
PRECAUTIONS General Folic acid when administered as a single agent in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The 2 mgs of B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) , the amount contained in Methaver , has been shown to provide an adequate amount of B12 to address this precaution .
Unmetabolized folic acid has been shown in one study of 105 postmenopausal women ( 50 - 75 yrs ) to have the potential to reduce natural killer cells ’ cytotoxicity , which may result in an impaired immune response .
B12 should not be used in those with Leber ’ s optic atrophy .
Decreased levels of B have been associated with reduced ability to detoxify the cyanide in exposed individuals and B may increase the risk of irreversible neurological damage from optic atrophy in those affected with the disorder .
Hydroxocobalamin can aid in the detoxification of cyanide .
This form of B12 , although not in this product , is an acceptable form for > B12 supplementation in those with this disorder .
Caution should be exercised when Methaver is administered to patients with diabetic nephropathy .
One published study showed that among patients with diabetic nephropathy given high dose folic acid , vitamin B12 , and vitamin B ( pyridoxine ) versus a placebo , there was a greater decrease in glomerular filtration rate ( GRF ) .
Pregnant women and nursing mothers may be recommended to use 12 microgram doses of B12 from nutritional supplements , although higher doses should only be taken on the recommendations of a prescribing medical professional .
Administration of doses of vitamin B12 greater than 10 micrograms daily may produce a hematological response in those with anemia secondary to folate deficiency .
Folate , when administered as a sing le agent in doses about 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure the detection of vitamin B12 deficiency ( specifically , the administration of folic acid may reverse the hematological manifestations of B12 deficiency , including pernicious anemia , while not addressing the neurological manifestations ) .
Folate therapy alone is inadequate for treatment of a vitamin B12 deficiency .
PATIENT INFORMATION Methaver is a prescription vitamin to be used only under licensed medical supervision .
DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs which may interact with folate include : • Antiepileptic drug s ( AED ) : The AED class including , but not limited to , phenytoin , carbamazepine , primidone , valproic acid , fosphenytoin , valproate , phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair fo late absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating fo late .
• Additionally , concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism , lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur .
Caution should be used when prescribing this pro duct among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants .
• Cholestyramine : Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels .
• Colestipo l : Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels .
• Cyclo serine : Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels .
• Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors ( DHFRI ) : DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms , and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels .
DHFRIs include aminopterin , methotrexate , pyrimethamine , triamterene , and trimethoprim .
• Fluoxetine : Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine .
• Isotretinoin : Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin .
L - dopa , triamterene , colchicine , and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels .
• Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drug s ( NSAIDs ) : NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit so me folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments .
NSAIDs include ibuprofen , naproxen , indomethacin and sulindac .
• Oral Contraceptives : Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy .
• Methylprednisolone : Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone .
• Pancreatic Enzymes : Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts , such as pancreatin and pancrelipase .
• Pentamidine : Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine .
• Pyrimethamine : High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine .
• Smoking and Alco ho l : Reduced serum folate levels have been noted .
• Sulfasalazine : Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid .
Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate .
Warfarin can product significant impairment in folate status after a 6 - mo nth therapy .
Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil .
• Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate - deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haemato poietic response to folate .
• Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis cariniipneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study .
Drug s which may interact with vitamin B12 : • Antibiotic , cholestyramine , colchicines , colestipol , metformin , para - amino salicylic acid , and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12 .
• Nitro us oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency .
Drug s which interact with vitamin B6 : • Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6 .
However , vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa .
PREGNANCY and NURSING MOTHERS Methaver is not intended for use as a prenatal / postnatal multivitamin for lactating and no n - lactating mother .
This pro duct contains B vitamins in active form .
Talk with your medical practitioner before using if pregnant or lactating .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid , and may possibly occur with other forms of folate .
Paresthesia , somnlence , nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6 .
Mild transient diarrhea , polycythemiavera , itching , transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One capsule daily or as directed by a licensed medical practitioner .
Methaver capsules are supplied as purple capsules printed with 353 dispensed in HDPE plastic bottles of 30 ct .
NDC 69336 - 353 - 30 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Keep in cool dry place .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
KEEP THIS OUT OF T HE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx Only Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
Manufactured for : Sterling - Knight Pharmaceuticals , LLC Ripley , MS 38663 MADE IN USA Rev . 11 / 2015 Methaver Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
