1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CONJUPRI ® is calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
1 . 1 Hypertension CONJUPRI ® is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and patients 6 years and older , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including levamlodipine .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Levamlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult recommended starting dose : 2 . 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 5 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) ○ Small , fragile , or elderly patients , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 1 . 25 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric starting dose : 1 . 25 mg to 2 . 5 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) Important Limitation : Doses in excess of 2 . 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of levamlodipine is 2 . 5 mg once daily , and the maximum dose is 5 mg once daily .
Small , fragile , or elderly patients , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 1 . 25 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding levamlodipine to other antihypertensive therapy .
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure goals .
In general , wait 7 to 14 days between titration steps .
Titrate more rapidly , however , if clinically warranted , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
2 . 2 Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 – 17 years is 1 . 25 mg to 2 . 5 mg once daily .
Doses in excess of 2 . 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablet , 2 . 5 mg is white to off - white , capsule shaped , flat - faced tablet with functional score on each side , engraved with “ OE ” on one side and “ B47 ” on the other side .
Tablet of 2 . 5 mg can be split for 1 . 25 mg dose for medical conditions that need 1 . 25 mg dose .
Tablet , 5 mg is white to off - white , soap shaped , flat - faced tablet , engraved with “ OE ” on one side and “ B48 ” on the other side .
• Tablets : 2 . 5 mg ( functionally scored ) , and 5 mg .
2 . 5 mg tablets can be split for 1 . 25 mg dose ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levamlodipine is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine .
• Known sensitivity to amlodipine .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
However , acute hypotension is unlikely .
( 5 . 1 ) • Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Titrate slowly in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Because of the gradual onset of action , acute hypotension is unlikely .
5 . 2 Increased Angina or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
5 . 3 Patients with Hepatic Failure Because amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function , titrate slowly when administering amlodipine to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions to amlodipine is edema which occurred in a dose related manner .
Other adverse experiences not dose related but reported with an incidence > 1 . 0 % are fatigue , nausea , abdominal pain and somnolence .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , call CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd at 1 - 877 - 436 - 7220 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
In general , treatment with amlodipine besylate was well - tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily .
Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine were of mild or moderate severity .
In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine besylate ( N = 1730 ) at doses up to 10 mg to placebo ( N = 1250 ) , discontinuation of amlodipine besylate because of adverse reactions was required in only about 1 . 5 % of patients and was not significantly different from placebo ( about 1 % ) .
The most commonly reported side effects more frequent than placebo are reflected in the table below .
The incidence ( % ) of side effects that occurred in a dose related manner are as follows : Amlodipine Placebo 2 . 5 mg 5 mg 10 mg N = 275 N = 296 N = 268 N = 520 Edema 1 . 8 3 . 0 10 . 8 0 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 1 3 . 4 3 . 4 1 . 5 Flushing 0 . 7 1 . 4 2 . 6 0 . 0 Palpitation 0 . 7 1 . 4 4 . 5 0 . 6 Other adverse reactions that were not clearly dose related but were reported with an incidence greater than 1 . 0 % in placebo - controlled clinical trials include the following : Amlodipine ( % ) Placebo ( % ) ( N = 1 , 730 ) ( N = 1 , 250 ) Fatigue 4 . 5 2 . 8 Nausea 2 . 9 1 . 9 Abdominal Pain 1 . 6 0 . 3 Somnolence 1 . 4 0 . 6 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug and dose related , there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table : Amlodipine Placebo Male = % Female = % Male = % Female = % ( N = 1 , 218 ) ( N = 512 ) ( N = 914 ) ( N = 336 ) Edema 5 . 6 14 . 6 1 . 4 5 . 1 Flushing 1 . 5 4 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 9 Palpitations 1 . 4 3 . 3 0 . 9 0 . 9 Somnolence 1 . 3 1 . 6 0 . 8 0 . 3 The following events occurred in < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : arrhythmia ( including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , chest pain , peripheral ischemia , syncope , tachycardia , vasculitis .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dysphagia , diarrhea , flatulence , pancreatitis , vomiting , gingival hyperplasia .
General : allergic reaction , asthenia , 1 back pain , hot flushes , malaise , pain , rigors , weight gain , weight decrease .
Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , muscle cramps , 1 myalgia .
Psychiatric : sexual dysfunction ( male1 and female ) , insomnia , nervousness , depression , abnormal dreams , anxiety , depersonalization .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , 1 epistaxis .
Skin and Appendages : angioedema , erythema multiforme , pruritus , 1 rash , 1 rash erythematous , rash maculopapular .
Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye pain , tinnitus .
Urinary System : micturition frequency , micturition disorder , nocturia .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Hemopoietic : leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
1 These events occurred in less than 1 % in placebo - controlled trials , but the incidence of these side effects was between 1 % and 2 % in all multiple dose studies .
Amlodipine therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in serum potassium , serum glucose , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
In the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies of amlodipine in coronary artery disease , the adverse event profile was similar to that reported previously ( see above ) , with the most common adverse event being peripheral edema .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) , in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization , have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Postmarketing reporting has also revealed a possible association between extrapyramidal disorder and amlodipine .
Amlodipine has been used safely in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , well - compensated congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , and abnormal lipid profiles .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co - administration with CYP3A inhibitors ( moderate and strong ) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A inducers .
Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co - administered with amlodipine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Simvastatin Co - administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co - administered .
Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric : Effect on patients less than 6 years old is not known .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric : Start dosing at the low end of the dose range .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data based on post - marketing reports with amlodipine use in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled hypertension in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10 and 20 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
However for rats , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) .
Amlodipine has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Data Animal Data No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( approximately 10 and 20 times the MRHD based on body surface area , respectively ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
However for rats , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited available data from a published clinical lactation study reports that amlodipine is present in human milk at an estimated median relative infant dose of 4 . 2 % .
No adverse effects of amlodipine on the breastfed infant have been observed .
There is no available information on the effects of amlodipine on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Levamlodipine ( 1 . 25 to 2 . 5 mg daily ) is effective in lowering blood pressure in patients 6 to 17 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Effect of levamlodipine on blood pressure in patients less than 6 years of age is not known .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of amlodipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase of AUC of approximately 40 – 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional overdosage of amlodipine limited .
Single oral doses of amlodipine equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
If massive overdose should occur , initiate active cardiac and respiratory monitoring .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , provide cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , consider administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
As amlodipine is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient levamlodipine maleate is the maleate salt of levamlodipine , the pharmacologically active isomer of amlodipine , a long - acting calcium channel blocker .
Levamlodipine maleate is chemically described as ( S ) 3 - ethyl - 5 - methyl - 2 - ( 2 - aminoethoxymethyl ) - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate maleate , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levamlodipine maleate is an off - white to light yellow crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 524 . 95 .
It is slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
CONJUPRI ® ( Levamlodipine ) tablets are formulated as white to off - white tablets containing 1 . 25 , 2 . 5 , and 5 mg of levamlodipine ( equivalent to 1 . 6 , 3 . 2 , and 6 . 4 mg of levamlodipine maleate respectively ) , for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , levamlodipine maleate , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : betadex , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow - channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
Amlodipine is a 1 : 1 racemic mixture of levamlodipine and dextro amlodipine , it has been demonstrated that levamlodipine is the pharmacologically active , anti - hypertensive isomer .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamics : Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
Although the acute intravenous administration of amlodipine decreases arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in hemodynamic studies of patients with chronic stable angina , chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical trials did not lead to clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressures in normotensive patients with angina .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 – 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 – 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / – 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when co - administered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normal or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Electrophysiologic Effects : amlodipine does not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In patients with chronic stable angina , intravenous administration of 10 mg did not significantly alter A - H and H - V conduction and sinus node recovery time after pacing .
Similar results were obtained in patients receiving amlodipine and concomitant beta - blockers .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
In clinical trials with angina patients alone , amlodipine therapy did not alter electrocardiographic intervals or produce higher degrees of AV blocks .
Drug Interactions Sildenafil : When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) of levamlodipine is similar between CONJUPRI ® 5 mg and Norvasc ® ( amlodipine besylate ) 10 mg under fasting condition .
Absorption After oral administration of CONJUPRI ® , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 90 % .
The bioavailability of CONJUPRI ® is not altered by the presence of food .
Distribution Ex vivo studies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Metabolism Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism with 10 % of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites excreted in the urine .
Excretion Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 – 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with renal failure may therefore receive the usual initial dose .
Hepatic Impairment Elderly patients and patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 – 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
A similar increase in AUC was observed in patients with moderate to severe heart failure .
12 . 4 Pediatric Patients Sixty - two hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years received doses of amlodipine between 1 . 25 mg and 20 mg .
Weight - adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values in adults .
Drug Interactions In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
Impact of other drugs on amlodipine Co - administered cimetidine , magnesium - and aluminum hydroxide antacids , sildenafil , and grapefruit juice have no impact on the exposure to amlodipine .
CYP3A inhibitors : Co - administration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin co - administration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A ( e . g . , itraconazole , clarithromycin ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Impact of amlodipine on other drugs Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A and may increase exposure to CYP3A substrates .
Co - administered amlodipine does not affect the exposure to atorvastatin , digoxin , ethanol and the warfarin prothrombin response time .
Simvastatin : Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cyclosporine : A prospective study in renal transplant patients ( N = 11 ) showed on an average of 40 % increase in trough cyclosporine levels when concomitantly treated with amlodipine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Tacrolimus : A prospective study in healthy Chinese volunteers ( N = 9 ) with CYP3A5 expressers showed a 2 . 5 - to 4 - fold increase in tacrolimus exposure when concomitantly administered with amlodipine compared to tacrolimus alone .
This finding was not observed in CYP3A5 non - expressers ( N = 6 ) .
However , a 3 - fold increase in plasma exposure to tacrolimus in a renal transplant patient ( CYP3A5 non - expresser ) upon initiation of amlodipine for the treatment of post - transplant hypertension resulting in reduction of tacrolimus dose has been reported .
Irrespective of the CYP3A5 genotype status , the possibility of an interaction cannot be excluded with these drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 amlodipine mg / kg / day , showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine / day . 2 For the rat , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dose . 2 Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum recommended human dose2 of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
2 Based on patient weight of 50 kg 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Effects in Hypertension Adult Patients The antihypertensive efficacy of amlodipine has been demonstrated in a total of 15 double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies involving 800 patients on amlodipine and 538 on placebo .
Once daily administration produced statistically significant placebo - corrected reductions in supine and standing blood pressures at 24 hours postdose , averaging about 12 / 6 mmHg in the standing position and 13 / 7 mmHg in the supine position in patients with mild to moderate hypertension .
Maintenance of the blood pressure effect over the 24 - hour dosing interval was observed , with little difference in peak and trough effect .
Tolerance was not demonstrated in patients studied for up to 1 year .
The 3 parallel , fixed dose , dose response studies showed that the reduction in supine and standing blood pressures was dose - related within the recommended dosing range .
Effects on diastolic pressure were similar in young and older patients .
The effect on systolic pressure was greater in older patients , perhaps because of greater baseline systolic pressure .
Effects were similar in black patients and in white patients .
Pediatric Patients Two hundred sixty - eight hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years were randomized first to amlodipine 2 . 5 or 5 mg once daily for 4 weeks and then randomized again to the same dose or to placebo for another 4 weeks .
Patients receiving 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg at the end of 8 weeks had significantly lower systolic blood pressure than those secondarily randomized to placebo .
The magnitude of the treatment effect is difficult to interpret , but it is probably less than 5 mmHg systolic on the 5 mg dose and 3 . 3 mmHg systolic on the 2 . 5 mg dose .
Adverse events were similar to those seen in adults .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 2 . 5 mg Tablets Levamlodipine – 2 . 5 mg tablets are supplied as white to off - white , capsule shaped , flat - faced tablet with functional score on each side , engraved with “ OE ” on one side and “ B47 ” on the other side and supplied as follows : NDC 24075 - 0411 - 3 Bottle of 30 tablets with child - resistant closure NDC 24075 - 0411 - 9 Bottle of 90 tablets with child - resistant closure NDC 24075 - 0411 - 5 Bottle of 500 tablets 5 mg Tablets Levamlodipine – 5 mg tablets are supplied as white to off - white , soap shaped , flat - faced tablet , engraved with “ OE ” on one side and “ B48 ” on the other side and supplied as follows : NDC 24075 - 0413 - 3 Bottle of 30 tablets with child - resistant closure NDC 24075 - 0413 - 9 Bottle of 90 tablets with child - resistant closure NDC 24075 - 0413 - 5 Bottle of 500 tablets Storage Store bottles at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers ( USP ) .
Manufactured and distributed by : CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
CONJUPRI ® is a registered trademark of CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
© 2021 CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION PATIENT INFORMATION CONJUPRI ( ‘ kon - ju - pri ) ( levamlodipine ) tablets What is CONJUPRI ?
CONJUPRI is a prescription medicine used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older .
CONJUPRI can be used by itself or with other high blood pressure medicines .
It is not known if CONJUPRI is safe and effective in children less than 6 years of age .
Do not take CONJUPRI if you are allergic to amlodipine or to any of the ingredients in CONJUPRI .
See the end of this Patient Information for a complete list of ingredients in CONJUPRI .
Before taking CONJUPRI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have heart problems • have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if CONJUPRI can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant during treatment with CONJUPRI .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
CONJUPRI can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with CONJUPRI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take CONJUPRI ?
• Take CONJUPRI exactly as your healthcare provider tell you to .
• Take CONJUPRI 1 time a day .
• If you take too much CONJUPRI , contact your local poison control center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of CONJUPRI ?
CONJUPRI may cause serious side effects , including : • Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
CONJUPRI may cause low blood pressure , especially in people that have a condition called severe aortic stenosis .
Tell your healthcare provider if you feel faint or lightheaded .
• Worsening chest pain ( angina ) or heart attack .
CONJUPRI may cause worsening chest pain or heart attack after starting or increasing your dose , especially in people with a condition called severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
If that happens , call your healthcare provider right away or go directly to a hospital emergency room .
The most common side effects of CONJUPRI include : • swelling of your legs or ankles • tiredness • nausea • stomach pain • sleepiness • dizziness • flushing ( hot or warm feeling in your face ) • heart palpitations ( very fast heartbeat ) These are not all of the possible side effects of CONJUPRI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CONJUPRI ?
• Store CONJUPRI at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep CONJUPRI out of the light .
Keep CONJUPRI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of CONJUPRI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use CONJUPRI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CONJUPRI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about CONJUPRI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in CONJUPRI ?
Active ingredient : levamlodipine maleate Inactive ingredients : betadex , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and pregelatinized starch Manufactured and distributed by : CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
CONJUPRI is a registered trademark of CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd . 2019 CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
For more information , call 1 - 877 - 436 - 7220 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 12 / 2019 Manufactured and distributed by : CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
CONJUPRI is a registered trademark of CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
2019 CSPC Ouyi Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 5 mg Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
