Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • • temporary relief of external anal itching • • temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes • • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • • avoid contact with the eyes • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • bleeding occurs • • condition worsens • • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or soft cloth before application of this product .
• • when first opening the tube , puncture foil seal with top end of cap • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • • children under 12 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor Other information store at 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , cetyl alcohol , citric acid monohydrate , edetate disodium , glycerin , glyceryl oleate , glyceryl stearate , lanolin , methylparaben , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , simethicone emulsion , sodium benzoate , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays from 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 800 - 99 PrepH or 1 - 800 - 997 - 7374 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 26 g Tube Label PREPARATION H ® soothing RELIEF anti - itch cream HYDROCORTISONE 1 % Maximum Strength Without a Prescription Effective Itch Relief No Added Fragrance NET WT 0 . 9 OZ ( 26 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 26 g Tube Carton NEW !
PREPARATION H ® soothing RELIEF anti - itch cream HYDROCORTISONE 1 % Maximum Strength Without a Prescription Effective Itch Relief No Added Fragrance ONE TUBE / NET WT 0 . 9 0 Z ( 26 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
