Menthol 5 . 2 mg Cough Suppresant , Oral Anesthetic Uses : • Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold • For temporary relief of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth and sore throat Sore throat warning : if sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomitting , consult a doctor promptly .
These may be serious .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persisted headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition • Sore throat symptoms do not improve in 7 days • Irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens Ask a doctor before use if you have : • A persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , emphysema • A cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) If pregnant or breast feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions Adults and children 12 years and over Take 1 - 2 lozenges every 2 to 3 hours not more than 8 lozenges in 24 hours Children 6 years to under 12 years Take 1 lozenge every 5 to 6 hours not more than 4 lozenges in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age Consult your doctor Other Information : • store in a cool , dry place , below 25 degrees C • Protect from heat and light • Diabetic patients should not use linkus lozenges without the advice of physician and they should monitor glucose levels closely while taking lozenges as it may alter blood glucose levels Manufactured for : Herbion USA Inc .
Williamsville NY 14221 1 - 888 - ( OK - HERBION ) - 654 - 3724 info . us @ herbion . com www . herbion . com Ascorbic Acid , Aspartame , Citric Acid , Pineapple Flavor , Colorants Red No . 40 , Eucalyptus Oil , Hyssop , Large leaf Geiger Tree , Lesser Galangal , Licorice , Liquid Glucose , Long Pepper , Malabar Nut , Sweet Violet Questions or comments : 1 - 888 - 654 - 3724 Monday thru Friday , 9 am - 5 pm or visit www . Herbion . com Linkus Lozenges Sugar Free Cough Suppresant Oral Anesthetic Relieves Cough and Soothes Sore Throat Pineapple [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
