4R0012MC , 4R0837MC , 4R0112MC Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Rx only With Integral Donor Tube Using ACD or CPD and Fenwal HighFlo Needle Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique .
Precaution : Do not use unless solution is clear .
1 .
Identify Blood - Pack unit using appropriate donor identification system .
Confirm that all numbered tubing of each Blood - Pack unit contains its own identical segment numbers .
2 .
Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight .
3 .
Position primary container from donor scale as far as possible below donor arm and clamp donor tubing .
4 .
Following blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ' s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
5 .
Remove HighFlo1 needle cover per instructions below : a ) Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
b ) Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release clamp .
6 .
Mix blood and anticoagulant at several intervals during collection and immediately after collection .
7 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on Blood - Pack unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on Blood - Pack unit ± 10 % .
8 .
Apply clamp to donor tube .
9 .
As appropriate , release pressure on the donor ' s arm , collect donor samples following established procedures and withdraw donor needle .
10 .
Withdrawal of needle into needle guard .
Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
b ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
11 .
Strip blood from donor tubing into container , mix and allow the tubing to refill ; repeat once .
Seal at X marks on donor tubing to provide numbered aliquots of anticoagulated blood for typing or crossmatching .
12 .
Discard needle in needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
13 .
Store filled unit between 1 and 6 ° C . 14 .
Infuse blood within 21 days of collection .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of " Controlled Room Temperature " : " A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . "
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc .
12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
Symbols with Definitions [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Van der Meer , P . F . , & de Korte , D . " Increase of blood donation speed by optimizing the needle - to - tubing connection : an application of donation software . "
Vox Sanguinis 2009 , 97 : 21 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com 1 - 800 - 933 - 6925 © 2019 Fresenius Kabi AG .
All rights reserved .
47 - 23 - 13 - 621 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Code 4R0837MC 1 Unit Fresenius Kabi Fenwal Blood - Pack Unit Single Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution , USP ( CPD ) For Collection of 250 mL Blood Integral Donor Tube , 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall Fenwal HighFlo Needle Rx only Each unit consists of a primary container with 35 mL of CPD solution containing 921 mg Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 893 mg Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 105 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 78 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP .
pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
See instructions for use .
Single Use Only Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
• • Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• • Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• • Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : • • Units are not removed from foil pouch , or • • Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• • Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded .
Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com Made in US 47 - 28 - 12 - 755 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
