WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio , and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the full prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age ≥ 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Boxed Warning 04 / 2017 Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) 04 / 2016 Contraindications ( 4 ) 04 / 2016 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 04 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Important Limitations of Use Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes or for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis , as it would not be effective in these settings .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) Important limitations of use : Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Starting dose is 500 mg daily with evening meal ( 2 . 1 ) • Individualize dose based on effectiveness and tolerability , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 2 , 000 mg .
( 2 . 1 ) • Prior to initiation , assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) ( 2 . 2 ) • Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 • Assess risk / benefit of continuing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if eGFR falls below 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 • Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures ( 2 . 4 ) • Swallow whole .
Never split , crush or chew .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients who are not currently taking metformin is 500 mg orally , once daily with the evening meal .
Increase the dose in 500 mg increments every 1 to 2 weeks if a higher dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is needed and there are no gastrointestinal adverse reactions .
The dosage of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerability , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 2 , 000 mg .
2 . 2 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and periodically thereafter .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 is not recommended .
In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy .
Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if the patient ’ s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Switching from Immediate - Release Metformin to Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets If switching from immediate - release metformin to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , initiate metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total dose , up to 2 , 000 mg once daily .
2 . 4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 5 Important Administration Instructions Administer metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets orally , once daily with the evening meal .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never split , crushed or chewed .
If a dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is missed , instruct patients not to take two doses the same day and to resume their usual dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with the next schedule dose [ See Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , 500 mg are available as blue , round , biconvex , film coated tablets , an orifice on both sides , imprinted with “ WPI ” on the top and “ 500 ” on the bottom of one side , and plain on the other .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , 1 , 000 mg are available as white to off - white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets , an orifice on both sides , imprinted with “ WPI ” on the top and “ 1000 ” on the bottom of one side , and plain on the other .
Extended Release Tablets , 500 mg and 1 , 000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • Severe renal impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
• Severe renal impairment ; ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride ( 4 ) • Metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Lactic acidosis : See boxed warning .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vitamin B12 deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Monitor hematologic parameters annually .
( 5 . 2 ) • Macrovascular outcomes : No conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other antidiabetic drug .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( greater than 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels generally greater than 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable , with a clearance of up to 170 mL / minute under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : Renal Impairment : The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ’ s renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : • Before initiating metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
• In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
Drug Interactions : The concomitant use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance or increase metformin accumulation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Therefore , consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
Age 65 or Greater : The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ’ s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Radiological Studies with Contrast : Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable .
Surgery and Other Procedures : Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension and renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
Hypoxic States : Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Excessive Alcohol Intake : Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism and this may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled , 29 - week clinical trials of immediate release metformin , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum Vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or Vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate Vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal Vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum Vitamin B12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta adrenergic blocking drugs .
5 . 4 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other oral anti - diabetic drug .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The incidence and type of adverse reactions reported by greater than 5 % of patients for the combinedmetformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets group versus placebo group are hypoglycemia , diarrhea , and nausea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Lactic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vitamin B12 Levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In clinical trials conducted in the U . S . , over 1000 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have been treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 to 2 , 000 mg / day in active - controlled and placebo - controlled studies with the 500 mg dosage form .
In the 24 - week monotherapy trial comparing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets to immediate - release metformin , serious adverse reactions were reported in 3 . 6 % ( 19 / 528 ) of the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients compared to 2 . 9 % ( 5 / 174 ) of the patients treated with immediate - release metformin .
In the add - on to sulfonylurea study , patients receiving background glyburide therapy were randomized to receive add - on treatment of either one of three different regimens of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or placebo .
In total , 431 patients received metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide and 144 patients received placebo and glyburide .
A serious adverse reaction was reported in 2 . 1 % ( 9 / 431 ) of the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide - treated patients compared to 1 . 4 % ( 2 / 144 ) of the placebo and glyburide - treated patients .
When the data from the monotherapy and add - on to sulfonylurea clinical trials were combined , the most frequently ( incidence greater than or equal to 0 . 5 % ) reported serious adverse reactions classified by system organ class were gastrointestinal disorders ( 1 . 0 % of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients compared to 0 % of patients not treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) and cardiac disorders ( 0 . 4 % of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients compared to 0 . 5 % of patients not treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) .
Only 2 serious adverse reactions ( unstable angina [ n = 2 ] and pancreatitis [ n = 2 ] ) were reported in more than one metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patient .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that were more common in the combined metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide group than in the placebo and glyburide group are shown in Table 1 .
In 0 . 7 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide , diarrhea was responsible for discontinuation of study medication compared to no patients in the placebo and glyburide group .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported By Greater Than 5 % * of Patients for the Combined Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Groups Versus Placebo GroupAdverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + Glyburide ( n = 431 ) Placebo + Glyburide ( n = 144 ) Hypoglycemia 13 . 7 % 4 . 9 % Diarrhea 12 . 5 % 5 . 6 % Nausea 6 . 7 % 4 . 2 % * ARs that were more common in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated than in the placebo - treated patients .
Laboratory Tests Vitamin B12 concentrations Metformin may lower serum vitamin B12 concentrations .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring .
( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance ( such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) may increase the accumulation of metformin .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
( 7 . 2 ) • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
7 . 2 Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
7 . 3 Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
7 . 4 Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Co - administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
7 . 5 Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blockers , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children younger than 18 years of age have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric Use : Assess renal function more frequently .
( 8 . 5 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day , which represent 3 and 6 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2 , 000 mg based on body surface area comparison for rats and rabbits , respectively .
However , because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Metformin HCl should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets used during labor and delivery has not been evaluated in human studies .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Thus , the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants after metformin HCl oral solution may exist .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients below the age of 18 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] 8 . 6 Renal Impairment Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in severe renal impairment , patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE No cases of overdose were reported during metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets clinical trials .
It would be expected that adverse reactions of a more intense character including epigastric discomfort , nausea , and vomiting followed by diarrhea , drowsiness , weakness , dizziness , malaise and headache might be seen .
Should those symptoms persist , lactic acidosis should be excluded .
Overdose of metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin hydrochloride has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
11 DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet is an oral antihyperglycemic medication used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula of metformin hydrochloride ( metformin HCl ) is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin HCl , USP is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin HCl , USP is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP are modified release dosage forms that contain 500 mg or 1 , 000 mg of metformin HCl .
Each 500 mg tablet contains cellulose acetate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , FD & C blue # 2 , hypromellose , iron oxide black , lecithin , magnesium stearate , povidone , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , xanthan gum .
Each 1 , 000 mg tablet contains cellulose acetate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide black , lecithin , magnesium stearate , povidone , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , xanthan gum .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , 500 mg and 1 , 000 mg tablets are formulated to gradually release metformin to the upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metformin is a biguanide that improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes or in healthy subjects except in special circumstances , [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and daylong plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single oral dose of 1 , 000 mg ( 2x500 mg tablets ) metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets after a meal , the time to reach maximum plasma metformin concentration ( Tmax ) is achieved at approximately 7 to 8 hours .
In both single and multiple - dose studies in healthy subjects , once daily 1 , 000 mg ( 2x500 mg tablets ) dosing provides equivalent systemic exposure , as measured by area - under - the - curve ( AUC ) , and up to 35 % higher Cmax , of metformin relative to the immediate release given as 500 mg twice daily .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be administered immediately after a meal to maximize therapeutic benefit .
Single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets from 500 mg to 2 , 500 mg resulted in less than proportional increase in both AUC and Cmax .
Low - fat and high - fat meals increased the systemic exposure ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets by about 38 % and 73 % , respectively , relative to fasting .
Both meals prolonged metformin Tmax by approximately 3 hours but Cmax was not affected .
In a two - way , single - dose crossover study in healthy volunteers , the 1 , 000 mg tablet was found to be bioequivalent to two 500 mg tablets under fed conditions based on equivalent Cmax and AUCs for the two formulations .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of 850 mg immediate release metformin hydrochloride averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally less than 1 mcg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials , which served as the basis of approval for metformin , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 mcg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism Intravenous single - dose studies in healthy subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) , nor biliary excretion .
Metabolism studies with extended - release metformin tablets have not been conducted .
Excretion Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Renal Impairment : Following a single dose administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment , the oral and renal clearance of metformin were decreased by 33 % and 50 % and 16 % and 53 % , respectively .
Metformin peak and systemic exposure was 27 % and 61 % greater , respectively in subjects with mild renal impairment and 74 % and 2 . 36 - fold greater in subjects with moderate renal impairment as compared to healthy subjects .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hepatic Impairment : No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have been conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Geriatrics : Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased by 35 % , the half - life is prolonged by 64 % and Cmax is increased by 76 % , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] Gender : In the pharmacokinetic studies in healthy volunteers , there were no important differences between male and female subjects with respect to metformin AUC and t1 / 2 .
However , Cmax for metformin was 40 % higher in female subjects as compared to males .
The gender differences for Cmax are unlikely to be clinically important .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin hydrochloride tablets was comparable in males and females .
Race : There were no definitive conclusions on the differences between the races with respect to the pharmacokinetics of metformin because of the imbalance in the respective sizes of the racial groups .
However , the data suggest a trend towards higher metformin Cmax and AUC values for metformin are obtained in Asian subjects when compared to Caucasian , Hispanic and Black subjects .
The differences between the Asian and Caucasian groups are unlikely to be clinically important .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Pediatrics : No pharmacokinetic data from studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric subjects are available .
Drug Interactions : Specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been performed except for one with glyburide .
However , such studies have been performed on metformin .
Table 2 : Effect of Coadministered Drug on Plasma Metformin Systemic ExposureCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug1 Dose of Metformin1 Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 00 AUC2 Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg4 0 . 983 0 . 993 Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 093 1 . 223 Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 053 1 . 073 Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion may increase the accumulation of metformin : [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis : [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Topiramate 100 mg5 500 mg5 1 . 255 1 . 17 1 .
All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses 2 .
AUC = AUC0 –∞ 3 .
Ratio of arithmetic means 4 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg 5 .
At steady state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours ; AUC = AUC0 - 12 h Table 3 : Effect of Metformin on Coadministered Drug Systemic ExposureCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug1 Dose of Metformin1 Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 00 AUC2 Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg4 0 . 783 0 . 633 Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 873 0 . 693 Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 104 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 014 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 975 1 . 015 Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 954 1 . 01 1 .
All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses 2 .
AUC = AUC0 –∞ 3 .
Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 4 .
AUC0 - 24 hr reported 5 .
Ratio of arithmetic means 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 150 , 300 , and 450 mg / kg / day in males and 150 , 450 , 900 , and 1 , 200 mg / kg / day in females .
These doses are approximately 2 , 4 , and 8 times in males , and 3 , 7 , 12 , and 16 times in females of the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2 , 000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female rats .
A carcinogenicity study was also performed in Tg . AC transgenic mice at doses up to 2 , 000 mg applied dermally .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in male or female mice .
Genotoxicity assessments in the Ames test , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) and in vivo mouse micronucleus tests were negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was not affected by metformin when administered at dose up to 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have been studied as monotherapy and in combination with a sulfonylurea and insulin .
Other formulations of metformin have been studied with other classes of antihyperglycemic agents , either as immediate or as extended release tablets .
Double - Blind , Randomized , Parallel Group Clinical Trial to Compare the Efficacy , Safety , and Tolerability of Metformin ER ( M - ER ) Tablets and Metformin Immediate Release ( M - IR ) Tablets in the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled , dose - ranging , parallel group trial metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1 , 000 mg in the evening ) , and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily were compared to immediate - release metformin 1 , 500 mg per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1 , 000 mg in the evening ) .
This trial enrolled patients ( n = 338 ) who were newly diagnosed with diabetes , patients treated only with diet and exercise , patients treated with a single anti - diabetic medication ( sulfonylureas , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , thiazolidinediones , or meglitinides ) , and patients ( n = 368 ) receiving metformin up to 1 , 500 mg / day plus a sulfonylurea at a dose equal to or less than one - half the maximum dose .
Patients who were enrolled on monotherapy or combination anti - diabetic therapy underwent a 6 - week washout .
Patients randomized to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets began titration from 1 , 000 mg / day up to their assigned treatment dose over 3 weeks .
Patients randomized to immediate - release metformin initiated 500 mg twice daily for 1 week followed by 500 mg with breakfast and 1 , 000 mg with dinner for the second week .
The 3 - week treatment period was followed by an additional 21 - week period at the randomized dose .
For HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose , each of the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets regimens was at least as effective as immediate - release metformin .
Additionally , once daily dosing of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets was as effective as twice daily dosing of the immediate release metformin formulation .
Table 4 : Mean ± SE Changes from Baseline to Final Visit in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose and Body Weight for the Metformin Extended - Release Tablets and Metformin Immediate - Release Treatment Groups ( First 24 - Week Study ) Parameter Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Metformin Immediate - Release 1 , 500 mg in divided doses ( n = 174 ) 1 , 500 mg once daily ( n = 178 ) 1 , 500 mg in divided doses ( n = 182 ) 2 , 000 mg once daily ( n = 172 ) HbA1c ( % ) N 169 175 159 170 Baseline 8 . 2 ± 0 . 3 8 . 5 ± 0 . 2 8 . 3 ± 0 . 2 8 . 7 ± 0 . 3 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 1 - 1 . 1 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 1 Mean Difference ± SE from Metformin IR 0 ± 0 . 1 0 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 4 ± 0 . 1 N / A 98 . 4 % CI for Difference ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 3 ) ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 3 ) ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 1 ) Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) N 175 179 170 172 Baseline 190 ± 10 192 . 3 ± 10 184 ± 10 197 ± 11 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit - 39 ± 4 - 32 ± 4 - 42 ± 5 - 32 ± 5 Mean Difference ± SE from Metformin IR - 6 ± 4 0 ± 4 - 10 ± 4 N / A 95 % CI for Difference ( - 15 , 2 ) ( - 8 , 9 ) ( - 19 , - 1 ) Body Weight ( kg ) N 176 180 171 173 Baseline 88 . 2 ± 3 . 7 90 . 5 ± 3 . 7 87 . 7 ± 3 . 7 88 . 7 ± 3 . 9 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit - 0 . 9 ± 0 . 4 - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 4 - 1 . 1 ± 0 . 4 - 0 . 9 ± 0 . 4 Mean Difference ± SE from Metformin IR - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 4 0 . 2 ± 0 . 4 - 0 . 3 ± 0 . 4 N / A 95 % CI for Difference ( - 0 . 9 , 0 . 7 ) ( - 0 . 6 , 0 . 9 ) ( - 1 . 0 , 0 . 5 ) A Double - Blind , Randomized , Parallel - Group Study to Compare the Safety , Efficacy , and Tolerability of Metformin Extended Release ( M - ER ) Tablets in Combination with a Sulfonylurea ( SU ) and SU Alone in the Management of Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus In a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled ( glyburide add - on ) multicenter trial , patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were newly diagnosed or treated with diet and exercise ( n = 144 ) , or who were receiving monotherapy with metformin , sulfonylureas , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , thiazolidinediones , or meglitinides , or treated with combination therapy consisting of metformin / glyburide at doses up to 1 , 000 mg metformin + 10 mg glyburide per day ( or equivalent doses of glipizide or glimepiride up to half the maximum therapeutic dose ) ( n = 431 ) were enrolled .
All patients were stabilized on glyburide for a 6 - week run - in period , and then randomized to 1 of 4 treatments : placebo + glyburide ( glyburide alone ) ; metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once a day + glyburide , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once a day + glyburide , or metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 000 mg twice a day + glyburide .
A 3 - week metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets titration phase was followed by a 21 - week maintenance treatment phase .
Use of insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents other than the study drugs were prohibited .
The difference in the change from Baseline in HbA1c levels between the combined metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets + glyburide groups and the glyburide only group was statistically significant at week 24 ( p ˂ 0 . 001 ) .
The changes in glycemic control across the three metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets + glyburide groups were comparable .
Table 5 : Mean ± SE Changes from Baseline to Final Visit in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose and Body Weight for the Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets / Glyburide Groups and Placebo / Glyburide Treatment Group ( Second 24 - Week Study ) Parameter Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + Glyburide * Placebo / Glyburide * ( n = 144 ) 1 , 500 mg QD ( n = 144 ) 1 , 000 mg BID ( n = 141 ) 2 , 000 mg QD ( n = 146 ) HbA1c ( % ) N 136 136 144 141 Baseline 7 . 9 ± 0 . 1 7 . 8 ± 0 . 1 7 . 7 ± 0 . 1 8 . 1 ± 0 . 1 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 8 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 1 Mean Difference ± SE from Glyburide Alone - 0 . 8 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 9 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 8 ± 0 . 1 N / A 95 % CI for Difference ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ) ( - 1 . 1 , - 0 . 7 ) ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ) p - value for pairwise comparison < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) N 143 141 145 144 Baseline 163 ± 5 163 ± 5 159 ± 5 164 ± 5 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit - 14 ± 4 - 16 ± 4 - 9 ± 4 16 ± 4 Mean Difference ± SE from Glyburide Alone - 29 . 2 ± 4 . 9 - 31 . 2 ± 40 . 9 - 24 . 9 ± 4 . 9 N / A 95 % CI for Difference ( - 39 , - 20 ) ( - 41 , - 22 ) ( - 35 , - 15 ) p - value for pairwise comparison < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Body Weight ( kg ) N 143 141 146 144 Baseline 89 . 4 ± 11 . 2 103 . 7 ± 11 . 2 102 . 9 ± 11 . 2 95 . 6 ± 8 . 0 Mean Change ± SE at Final Visit 0 . 3 ± 1 . 1 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 0 ± 1 . 1 0 . 7 ± 1 . 0 Mean Difference ± SE from Glyburide Alone - 0 . 4 ± 0 . 5 - 0 . 6 ± 0 . 5 - 0 . 7 ± 0 . 5 N / A 95 % CI for Difference ( - 1 . 5 , 0 . 6 ) ( - 1 . 7 , 0 . 4 ) ( - 1 . 8 , 0 . 3 ) p - value for pairwise comparison 0 . 410 0 . 230 0 . 156 * - Glyburide was administered as 10 mg at breakfast and 5 mg at dinner .
A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of immediate release metformin plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to achieve adequate glycemic control on insulin alone .
Patients randomized to receive metformin plus insulin achieved a mean reduction in HbA1c of 2 . 10 % , compared to a 1 . 56 % reduction in HbA1c achieved by insulin plus placebo .
The improvement in glycemic control was achieved at the final study visit with 16 % less insulin , 93 . 0 U / day vs . 110 . 6 U / day , metformin plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo , respectively , p = 0 . 04 .
A second double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( n = 51 ) , with 16 weeks of randomized treatment , demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes controlled on insulin for 8 weeks with an average HbA1c of 7 . 46 ± 0 . 97 % , the addition of metformin maintained similar glycemic control ( HbA1c 7 . 15 ± 0 . 61 versus 6 . 97 ± 0 . 62 for metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , respectively ) with 19 % less insulin versus baseline ( reduction of 23 . 68 ± 30 . 22 versus an increase of 0 . 43 ± 25 . 20 units for metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , p ˂ 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study demonstrated that the combination of metformin plus insulin resulted in reduction in body weight of 3 . 11 ± 4 . 30 lbs , compared to an increase of 1 . 30 ± 6 . 08 lbs for placebo plus insulin , p = 0 . 01 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , 500 mg are available as blue , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets , an orifice on both sides , imprinted with “ WPI ” on the top and “ 500 ” on the bottom of one side , and plain on the other .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , 1 , 000 mg are available as white to off - white , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets , an orifice on both sides , imprinted with “ WPI ” on the top and “ 1000 ” on the bottom of one side , and plain on the other .
They are supplied as follows : Package Strength NDC Code Bottles of 30 500 mg 0591 - 2411 - 30 Bottles of 100 500 mg 0591 - 2411 - 01 Bottles of 1 , 000 500 mg 0591 - 2411 - 10 Bottles of 30 1 , 000 mg 0591 - 2412 - 30 Bottles of 90 1 , 000 mg 0591 - 2412 - 19 Bottles of 1 , 000 1 , 000 mg 0591 - 2412 - 10 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Information for Patients • Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , and hemoglobin A1c .
During periods of stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , medication requirements may change and patients should be advised to seek medical advice promptly .
• The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of metformin therapy , are unlikely to recur .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
• Patients should be advised to notify their health practitioner or call the Poison Control Center immediately in case of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets overdose .
• Patients should be informed about the importance of regular testing of renal function and hematological parameters when receiving treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients should be counseled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets alone do not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used in conjunction with insulin secretagogues , such as sulfonylureas and insulin .
• Patients should be informed that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed , and that the membrane coating remains intact during the transit of the dosage form through the gastrointestinal tract and is excreted in the feces .
Manufactured by : Actavis Laboratories , FL Inc .
Fort Lauderdale , FL 33314 USA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised : April 2017 234056 - 1 PATIENT INFORMATION Metformin Hydrochloride ( met - FORE - min HYE - droe - KLOR - ide ) Extended - Release Tablets , USP Read the patient information that comes with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Serious side effects can happen in people taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , including : lactic acidosis .
Metformin , one of the medicines in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of an acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms , which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • you feel cold in your hands or feet • you feel dizzy or lightheaded • you have a slow or irregular heartbeat • you feel very weak or tired • you have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • you have trouble breathing • you feel sleepy or drowsy • you have stomach pains , nausea or vomiting Most people who have had lactic acidosis with metformin have other things that , combined with the metformin , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • have severe kidney problems or your kidneys are affected by certain x - ray tests that use injectable dye .
• have liver problems • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term “ binge ” drinking • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke The best way to keep from having a problem with lactic acidosis from metformin is to tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Your doctor may decide to stop your metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a while if you have any of these things .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can have other serious side effects .
See “ What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
What are metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine that contains metformin hydrochloride used with diet and exercise to help control high blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for people with type 1 diabetes .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for people with diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are safe and effective in children younger than 18 years old .
Who should not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Do not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • have severe kidney problems • are allergic to the metformin hydrochloride in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any of the ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• have a condition called metabolic acidosis or diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
What should I tell my doctor before taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Before you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have type 1 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used to treat people with type 1 diabetes .
• have a history or risk for diabetic ketoacidosis ( high levels of certain acids , known as ketones , in the blood or urine ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis .
• have severe kidney problems • are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your doctor about when you should stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and when you should start metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets again .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
• have liver problems • have heart problems , including congestive heart failure .
• drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term ( binge ) drinking • are taking insulin • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can harm your unborn baby .
If you are pregnant , talk with your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if metformin passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby while you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist .
Talk to your doctor before you start any new medicine .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work .
How should I take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken 1 time per day with your evening meal .
• Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
Do not crush , cut , dissolve , or chew metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow tablets whole .
Your doctor may prescribe a different medicine for you .
• You may sometimes pass a soft mass in your stools ( bowel movement ) that looks like metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
It is normal to see this in your stool .
• When your body is under some type of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection , or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine that you need may change .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these problems .
• Your doctor should do blood tests to check how well your kidneys and liver are working before and during your treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Your healthcare provider will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A1c .
• Follow your doctor ’ s instructions for treating blood sugar that is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
Talk to your doctor if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
See “ What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
• Check your blood sugar regularly and as your doctor tells you to .
• Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• If you miss a dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , resume dosing according to schedule .
• If you take too much metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , call your doctor , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as sulfonylureas or insulin , you have a higher risk of having low blood sugar .
Tell your doctor if you take other diabetes medicines .
If you have symptoms of low blood sugar , you should check your blood sugar and treat if low , then call your doctor .
Symptoms of low blood sugar include : • shaking • sweating • rapid heartbeat • change in vision • hunger • headache • change in mood Common side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets include : • hypoglycemia • diarrhea • nausea • upset stomach or stomach pain Taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with your evening meal can help lessen the common stomach side effects of metformin that usually happen at the beginning of treatment .
If you have unexplained stomach problems , tell your doctor .
Stomach problems that start later , during treatment may be a sign of something more serious .
Tell your doctor if these symptoms return , as they may be symptoms of lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have side effects that bother you or that do not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at 68º to 77ºF ( 20º to 25ºC ) .
Keep metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . actavis . com or call 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 .
What are the ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Active Ingredient : metformin hydrochloride Inactive Ingredient : 500 mg tablet : cellulose acetate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , FD & C blue # 2 , hypromellose , iron oxide black , lecithin , magnesium stearate , povidone , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , xanthan gum .
1 , 000 mg tablet : cellulose acetate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide black , lecithin , magnesium stearate , povidone , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , xanthan gum .
What is type 2 diabetes ?
Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which your body does not make enough insulin , and the insulin that your body produces does not work as well as it should .
Your body can also make too much sugar .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , and by certain medicines when necessary .
Talk to your doctor about how to prevent , recognize , and take care of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and problems you have because of your diabetes .
Manufactured by : Actavis Laboratories , FL Inc .
Fort Lauderdale , FL 33314 USA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised : April 2017 234056 - 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 2411 - 30 Once - Daily Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 500 mg Actavis 30 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 2412 - 30 Once - Daily Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 1 , 000 mg Actavis 30 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
