Active Ingredient : ......... Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Uses : To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes ; burns Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage Other information : Store at room temperature .
Genuine Triple Antibiotic First Aid Ointment To Help Prevent Infection Each Gram Contains : Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Net Wt .
0 . 5 g ; ( 1 / 64 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for GENUINE FIRST AID .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : Purpose Isopropyl Alcohol , 70 % v / v ............... Antiseptic Use : For preparation of skin before injection .
Warnings : For external use only .
Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Store at room temperature 15 - 30 degree Celsius ( 59 - 86 degree Fahrenheit ) Do not use : with electrocautery , in the eyes .
Stop use if irritation and redness develop .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult your doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Wipe Injection site vigorously and discard .
Inactive Ingredient : Purified water .
LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20140301 Alcohol Cleansing Pad Genuine First Aid LLC , Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com 1 / pouch GENUINE FIRST AID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : Ethyl Alcohol 62 percent Uses : For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings : For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire or flame Do not use in the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Empty contents into palm .
Rub hands until gel dissipates .
Recommended for repeated use .
Other Information : Store at 15 to 25 degree Celsius ( 59 to 77 degree Fahrenheit ) Genuine Hand Sanitizer Instant Gel Antiseptic Handwash with Vitamin E and Aloe Kills 99 . 9 percent of germs Without Water Active Ingredient : Ethyl Alcohol 62 percent Net Wt 0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) Manufactured in China For Genuine First Aid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] first years Ready , Set , Help : The First Years will pay 2 - 3 % of the purchase price of this product to the American Red Cross .
To learn more about the American Red Cross visit : redcross . org The New Parent First Aid Kit includes 118 emergency and first aid essentials , with special emphasis on infant and toddler care .
The sturdy storage case is ideal for restocking when supplies get low .
Be sure to : - Check the kit regularly - Check expiration dates and replace any used or out - of date items .
- Check batteries in mini - flash light and replace when necessary ( 2 AAA alkaline batteries recommended ) - Always store y our first aid kit in a secure place out of reach of young children New Parent Resources Infant and Child CPR Training teaches parents , expectant parents , nannies , babysitters and family members to prevent , recognize and provide care for breathing and cardiac emergencies in infants and children age 12 and under .
Includes hands - on practice .
Visit redcross . org or contact your local American Red Cross chapter for more information about first aid , CPR courses and products to keep your family safe .
The American Red Cross logo is a trademark owned by the American Red Cross .
Officially licensed product of the American Red Cross Questions ?
Comments ?
Call us toll - free at 1 - 800 - 704 - 8697 or visit us at www . learningcurve . com WARNING : Except for infant rattle , contents are not toyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Actual product styling and colors may vary .
Please retain this packaging for future reference .
The First Years c 2008 Learning Curve Brands , Inc . 100 Technology Center Drive Stoughton , MA 02072 , U . S . A . All rights reserved Made in India .
ARC7058 Y705IC - OPL _ BACK Contents : 1 Emergency First Aid Guide 60 Adhesive Bandages 10 Triple Antibiotic Ointment packets 18 Sterile Gauze Pads ( 2x2 , 3x3 , 4x4 ) 2 Sterile Roller Bandages ( 3 " w , 4 " w ) 1 Adhesive Tape 1 Scissors 1 Tweezers 1 Mini - flashlight ( 2 AAA batteries included ) 1 Instant Cold Pack 10 Alcohol Pads 10 Waterless Hand Sanitizers 1 Small , Cloth Blanket 1 Nasal Aspirator 1 Infant Toy Rattle 1 Travel / Storage Case Product usage and care instructions inside Refer to warning on individual products contained with this kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
