Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses for the temporarily relief of nasal congestion due to : • ▪ common cold • ▪ hay fever • ▪ upper respiratory allergies • ▪ temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • ▪ shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ heart disease • ▪ high blood pressure • ▪ diabetes • ▪ thyroid disease • ▪ trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • • do not use more than directed • • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• • children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor Sake well before use : Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the protective cap on tip Other information • • store at room temperature How to use : Push down cap while turning counterclockwise and remove cap .
Remove clip under rim .
Secure cap after use .
Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , edetate disodium , microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose sodium , polyethylene glycol , povidone , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic , xanthan gum .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 267 - 3037 Principal Display Panel Publix ® NDC # 41415 - 716 - 30 Compare to the active ingredient in Afrin ® No Drip Original Pump Mist ORIGINAL nasal mist NASAL DECONGESTANT OXYMETAZOLINE HCL 0 . 05 % 12 HOUR PUMP MIST WON ’ T DRIP FROM NOSE OR DOWN THROAT • • Fast & effective congestion relief • • For colds & allergies 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
DISTRIBUTED BY PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS , INC . , 3300 PUBLIX CORPORATE PARKWAY , LAKELAND , FL 33811 1 - 888 - 267 - 3037 publix . com PUBLIX GUARANTEE : COMPLETE SATISFACTION OR YOUR MONEY BACK * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC , distributer of Afrin ® Original .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
