Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 13 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 7 . 0 % Oxybenzone 4 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Water , Sorbitol , Stearic Acid , Triethanolamine , Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate , Benzyl Alcohol , Sorbitan Isostearate , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 3 Distearate , Carbomer , Tocopherol , Disodium EDTA , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Fragrance .
Principal Display Panel WESTERN FAMILY Broad Spectrum SPF 50 sunscreen lotion UVA / UVB protection moisturizing with vitamin e Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] WESTERN FAMILY Broad Spectrum SPF 50 sunscreen lotion UVA / UVB protection moisturizing with vitamin e Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) 10 FL OZ ( 295 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 503 - 639 - 6300
