Active ingredient ( s ) Omeprazole 20 mg Sodium Bicarbonate 1100 mg Purpose Acid reducer Allows absorption of this omeprazole product Use ( s ) • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • not intended for immediate relief of hearburn .
This drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect .
Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole Do not use if you have : • touble or pain swallowing food • vomiting with blood • bloody or black stools These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or diziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulder ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • a sodium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • warfarin , clopidogrel or cilostazol ( blood - thinning medicines ) • prescription antifungal or anti - yeast medicines • diazepam ( anxiety medicine ) • digoxin ( heart medicine ) • tacrolimus or Mycophenolate mofetil ( immune system medicine ) • prescription antiretrovirals ( medicines for HIV infection ) • Methotrexate ( arthiritis medicine ) • any other prescription drugs , Sodium bicarbonate may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contract a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 - Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water at least one hour before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • do not chew or crush the capsule • do not open capsule and sprinkle on food • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more ofen than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age ; ask a doctor .
Heartburn in children may sometines be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • each capsule contains : sodium 303 mg • read the direction , warnings and accompanying label information before use • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • tamper evident ; do not use if the blue band around the capsule is missing or broken .
Do not use if foil inner seal is missing , open or broken .
• keep product out of high heat and humidity • prtect product from moisture Inactive Ingredients citric acid , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 , gelatin , magnesium stearate NF , pharmaceutical ink , polysorbate 80 , potassium hydroxide NF , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , Shellac , sodium lauryl sulphate , titanium dioxide , Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 How Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules Work For Your Frequent Heartburn Omeprazole and sodium bcarbonate capsules work differently form other OTC heartburn products , such as antacids and other acid reducers .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsules stop acid production at the source - the acid pump that produces stomach acid .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsules are to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days .
What to Expect When Using Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsules is a different type of medicine from antacids and other acid reducers .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsules may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours .
Make sure you take the entire 14 days of dosing to treat your frequent heartburn .
Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating .
• Do not eat late at night or just before bedtime .
• Certain foods or drinks are more likelhy to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol and even some fruits and vegetables .
• Eat slowly and do not eat big meals .
• If you are overweight , lose weight .
• If you smoke , quit smoking .
• Raise the head of your bed .
• Wear loose - fitting clothing around your stomach .
How are Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules Sold Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsules are availble in 14 , 28 and 42 count sizes .
These sizes contain one , two and three 14 - day courses of treatment , respectively .
Do not use of more than 14 days in a row unless directed by your doctor .
For the 28 count ( two 14 - day courses ) and the 42 count ( three 14 - day courses ) , you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 Capsule Carton * Compare to Zegerid OTC ® Capsules NDC 13107 - 117 - 14 Active Ingredients Treats Frequent Heartburn Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules • Omeprazole 20 mg / Acid Reducer • Sodium Bicarbonate 1100 mg / Allows Absorption of this Omperazole Product 14 Capsules One 14 - Day Course of Treatment Aurobindo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 Capsule Carton * Compare to Zegerid OTC ® Capsules NDC 13107 - 117 - 28 Active Ingredients Treats Frequent Heartburn Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules • Omeprazole 20 mg / Acid Reducer • Sodium Bicarbonate 1100 mg / Allows Absorption of this Omperazole Product 28 Capsules Two 14 - Day Course of Treatment Aurobindo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 42 Capsule Carton * Compare to Zegerid OTC ® Capsules NDC 13107 - 117 - 42 Active Ingredients Treats Frequent Heartburn Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules • Omeprazole 20 mg / Acid Reducer • Sodium Bicarbonate 1100 mg / Allows Absorption of this Omperazole Product 42 Capsules Three 14 - Day Course of Treatment Aurobindo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
