DESCRIPTION PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic isotonic solution in a single dose container for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL contains 640 mg of Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP ( C2H3NaO2 • 3H2O ) ; 496 mg of Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) ; 89 . 6 mg of Sodium Lactate ( C3H5NaO3 ) ; 74 . 6 mg of Potassium Chloride , USP ( KCl ) ; 36 . 8 mg of Calcium Chloride , USP ( CaCl2 • 2H2O ) ; and 30 . 5 mg of Magnesium Chloride , USP ( MgCl2 • 6H2O ) .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
The pH is 5 . 5 ( 4 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) administered intravenously has value as a source of water , electrolytes , and calories .
One liter has an ionic concentration of 140 mEq sodium , 10 mEq potassium , 5 mEq calcium , 3 mEq magnesium , 103 mEq chloride , 47 mEq acetate , and 8 mEq lactate .
The osmolarity is 312 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions may cause vein damage .
The caloric content is 11 kcal / L .
The VIAFLEX plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) produces a metabolic alkalinizing effect .
Acetate and lactate ions are metabolized ultimately to carbon dioxide and water , which requires the consumption of hydrogen cations .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes or as an alkalinizing agent .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known WARNINGS PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate or acetate ions should be done with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of these ions , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same administration set because of the likelihood of coagulation .
The intravenous administration of PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injection .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injection .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) may result in sodium or potassium retention .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) is not for use in the treatment of lactic acidosis .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should be used with caution .
Excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) .
It is also not known whether PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of electrolyte solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or drug therapy .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As directed by a physician .
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
All injections in VIAFLEX plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
Additives may be incompatible .
Complete information is not available .
Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
HOW SUPPLIED PLASMA - LYTE R Injection ( Multiple Electrolytes Injection , Type 2 , USP ) in VIAFLEX plastic containers is available as shown below : Code Size ( mL ) NDC 2B2504 1000 NDC 0338 - 0177 - 04 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF VIAFLEX PLASTIC CONTAINER Warning : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
Preparation for Administration 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
2 .
Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Additives may be incompatible .
To add medication before solution administration 1 .
Prepare medication site .
2 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
3 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
To add medication during solution administration 1 .
Close clamp on the set .
2 .
Prepare medication site .
3 .
Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
4 .
Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
5 .
Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
6 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
7 .
Return container to in use position and continue administration .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in USA © Copyright 1982 , 1983 , 1984 , 1989 , 1993 , Baxter Healthcare Corporation .
All rights reserved .
7 - 19 - 29 - 403 BAXTER , PLASMA - LYTE , VIAFLEX , AND PL 146 ARE TRADEMARKS OF BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC .
