Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , USP Rx only Sterile Injection DESCRIPTION Isoproterenol Hydrochloride , USP is 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( isopropylamino ) methyl ] Benzyl alcohol Hydrochloride , a synthetic sympathomimetic amine that is structurally related to epinephrine but acts almost exclusively on beta receptors .
The molecular formula is C11H17NO3 • HCl .
It has a molecular weight of 247 . 72 and the following structural formula : Isoproterenol Hydrochloride , USP is a racemic compound .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each milliliter of the sterile solution contains : Isoproterenol Hydrochloride , USP 0 . 2 mg Edetate Disodium ( EDTA ) 0 . 2 mg Sodium Chloride 7 . 0 mg Sodium Citrate , Dihydrate 2 . 07 mg Citric Acid , Anhydrous 2 . 5 mg Water for Injection 1 . 0 mL The pH is adjusted between 2 . 5 and 4 . 5 with Hydrochloric acid or Sodium Hydroxide .
The sterile solution is nonpyrogenic and can be administered by the intravenous , intramuscular , subcutaneous , or intracardiac routes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Isoproterenol is a potent nonselective beta - adrenergic agonist with very low affinity for alpha - adrenergic receptors .
Intravenous infusion of Isoproterenol in man lowers peripheral vascular resistance , primarily in skeletal muscle but also in renal and mesenteric vascular beds .
Diastolic pressure falls .
Renal blood flow is decreased in normotensive subjects but is increased markedly in shock .
Systolic blood pressure may remain unchanged or rise , although mean arterial pressure typically falls .
Cardiac output is increased because of the positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of the drug in the face of diminished peripheral vascular resistance .
The cardiac effects of Isoproterenol may lead to palpitations , sinus tachycardia , and more serious arrhythmias ; large doses of Isoproterenol may cause myocardial necrosis in animals .
Isoproterenol relaxes almost all varieties of smooth muscle when the tone is high , but this action is most pronounced on bronchial and gastrointestinal smooth muscle .
It prevents or relieves bronchoconstriction , but tolerance to this effect develops with overuse of the drug .
In man , Isoproterenol causes less hyperglycemia than does epinephrine .
Isoproterenol and epinephrine are equally effective in stimulating the release of free fatty acids and energy production .
Absorption , Fate , and Excretion .
Isoproterenol is metabolized primarily in the liver and other tissues by COMT .
Isoproterenol is a relatively poor substrate for MAO and is not taken up by sympathetic neurons to the same extent as are epinephrine and norepinephrine .
The duration of action of Isoproterenol may therefore be longer than that of epinephrine , but is still brief .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , USP is indicated : • For mild or transient episodes of heart block that do not require electric shock or pacemaker therapy .
• For serious episodes of heart block and Adams - Stokes attacks ( except when caused by ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation ) ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
• For use in cardiac arrest until electric shock or pacemaker therapy , the treatments of choice , is available ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
• For bronchospasm occurring during anesthesia .
• As an adjunct to fluid and electrolyte replacement therapy and the use of other drugs and procedures in the treatment of hypovolemic and septic shock , low cardiac output ( hypoperfusion ) states , congestive heart failure , and cardiogenic shock ( See WARNINGS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with tachyarrhythmias ; tachycardia or heart block caused by digitalis intoxication ; ventricular arrhythmias which require inotropic therapy ; and angina pectoris .
WARNINGS Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , by increasing myocardial oxygen requirements while decreasing effective coronary perfusion , may have a deleterious effect on the injured or failing heart .
Most experts discourage its use as the initial agent in treating cardiogenic shock following myocardial infarction .
However , when a low arterial pressure has been elevated by other means , Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection may produce beneficial hemodynamic and metabolic effects .
In a few patients , presumably with organic disease of the AV node and its branches , Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection has paradoxically been reported to worsen heart block or to precipitate Adams - Stokes attacks during normal sinus rhythm or transient heart block .
PRECAUTIONS General Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection should generally be started at the lowest recommended dose .
This may be gradually increased if necessary while carefully monitoring the patient .
Doses sufficient to increase the heart rate to more than 130 beats per minute may increase the likelihood of inducing ventricular arrhythmias .
Such increases in heart rate will also tend to increase cardiac work and oxygen requirements which may adversely affect the failing heart or the heart with a significant degree of arteriosclerosis .
Adequate filling of the intravascular compartment by suitable volume expanders is of primary importance in most cases of shock and should precede the administration of vasoactive drugs .
In patients with normal cardiac function , determination of central venous pressure is a reliable guide during volume replacement .
If evidence of hypo perfusion persists after adequate volume replacement , Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection may be given .
In addition to the routine monitoring of systemic blood pressure , heart rate , urine flow , and the electrocardiograph , monitor the response to therapy by frequent determination of the central venous pressure and blood gases .
Closely observe patients in shock during Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection administration .
If the heart rate exceeds 110 beats per minute , it may be advisable to decrease the infusion rate or temporarily discontinue the infusion .
Determinations of cardiac output and circulation time may also be helpful .
Take appropriate measures to ensure adequate ventilation .
Pay attention to acid - base balance and to the correction of electrolyte disturbances .
Drug Interactions Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection and epinephrine should not be administered simultaneously because both drugs are direct cardiac stimulants and their combined effects may induce serious arrhythmias .
The drugs may , however , be administered alternately provided a proper interval has elapsed between doses .
Avoid Isoproterenol Hydrochloride when potent inhalational anesthetics such as halothane are employed because of potential to sensitize the myocardium to effects of sympathomimetic amines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Isoproterenol Hydrochloride have not been done .
Mutagenic potential and effect on fertility have not been determined .
There is no evidence from human experience that Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection may be carcinogenic or mutagenic or that it impairs fertility .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Isoproterenol Hydrochloride .
It is also not known whether Isoproterenol Hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Isoproterenol Hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Isoproterenol in pediatric patients have not been established .
Intravenous infusions of Isoproterenol in refractory asthmatic children at rates of 0 . 05 to 2 . 7 mcg / kg / min have caused clinical deterioration , myocardial necrosis , congestive heart failure and death .
The risks of cardiac toxicity appear to be increased by some factors [ acidosis , hypoxemia , co - administration of corticosteroids , co - administration of methylxanthines ( theophylline , theobromine ) or aminophylline ] that are especially likely to be present in these patients .
If I . V . Isoproterenol is used in children with refractory asthma , patient monitoring must include continuous assessment of vital signs , frequent electrocardiography , and daily measurements of cardiac enzymes , including CPK - MB .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Isoproterenol Hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects in clinical circumstances .
There are , however , some data that suggest that elderly healthy or hypertensive patients are less responsive to beta - adrenergic stimulation than are younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for elderly patients should usually start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant diseases or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions to Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection have been reported : CNS : Nervousness , headache , dizziness , nausea , visual blurring .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , palpitations , angina , Adams - Stokes attacks , pulmonary edema , hypertension , hypotension , ventricular arrhythmias , tachyarrhythmias .
In a few patients , presumably with organic disease of the AV node and its branches , Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection has been reported to precipitate Adams - Stokes seizures during normal sinus rhythm or transient heart block .
Respiratory : Dyspnea .
Other : Flushing of the skin , sweating , mild tremors , weakness , pallor .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amring Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - Amring1 ( 1 - 844 - 267 - 4641 ) or FDA at 1 800 - FDA 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The acute toxicity of Isoproterenol Hydrochloride in animals is much less than that of epinephrine .
Excessive doses in animals or man can cause a striking drop in blood pressure , and repeated large doses in animals may result in cardiac enlargement and focal myocarditis .
In case of accidental over dosage as evidenced mainly by tachycardia or other arrhythmias , palpitations , angina , hypotension , or hypertension , reduce rate of administration or discontinue Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection until patient ’ s condition stabilizes .
Blood pressure , pulse , respiration , and ECG should be monitored .
It is not known whether Isoproterenol Hydrochloride is dialyzable .
The oral LD50 of Isoproterenol Hydrochloride in mice is 3 , 850 mg / kg ± 1 , 190 mg / kg of pure drug in solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Start Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection at the lowest recommended dose and increase the rate of administration gradually if necessary while carefully monitoring the patient .
The usual route of administration is by intravenous infusion or bolus intravenous injection .
In dire emergencies , the drug may be administered by intracardiac injection .
If time is not of the utmost importance , initial therapy by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection is preferred .
Recommended dosage for adults with heart block , Adams - Stokes attacks , and cardiac arrest : * Subsequent dosage and method of administration depend on the ventricular rate and the rapidity with which the cardiac pacemaker can take over when the drug is gradually withdrawn .
Route of Administration Preparation of Dilution Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Range * Bolus intravenous injection Dilute 1 mL ( 0 . 2 mg ) in 9 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0 . 02 mg to 0 . 06 mg ( 1 mL to 3 mL of diluted solution ) 0 . 01 mg to 0 . 2 mg ( 0 . 5 mL to 10 mL of diluted solution ) Intravenous infusion Dilute 10 mL ( 2 mg ) in 500 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 5 mcg / min .
( 1 . 25 mL of diluted solution per minute ) Intramuscular Use Solution undiluted 0 . 2 mg ( 1 mL ) 0 . 02 mg to 1 mg ( 0 . 1 mL to 5 mL ) Subcutaneous Use Solution undiluted 0 . 2 mg ( 1 mL ) 0 . 15 mg to 0 . 2 mg ( 0 . 75 mL to 1 mL ) Intracardiac Use Solution undiluted 0 . 02 mg ( 0 . 1 mL ) There are no well - controlled studies in children to establish appropriate dosing ; however , the American Heart Association recommends an initial infusion rate of 0 . 1 mcg / kg / min , with the usual range being 0 . 1 mcg / kg / min to 1 mcg / kg / min .
Recommended dosage for adults with shock and hypo perfusion states : † Concentrations up to 10 times greater have been used when limitation of volume is essential .
†† Rates over 30 mcg per minute have been used in advanced stages of shock .
The rate of infusion should be adjusted on the basis of heart rate , central venous pressure , systemic blood pressure , and urine flow .
If the heart rate exceeds 110 beats per minute , it may be advisable to decrease or temporarily discontinue the infusion .
Route of Administration Preparation of Dilution † Infusion Rate †† Intravenous infusion Dilute 5 mL ( 1 mg ) in 500 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0 . 5 mcg to 5 mcg per minute ( 0 . 25 mL to 2 . 5 mL of diluted solution ) Recommended dosage for adults with bronchospasm occurring during anesthesia : Route of Administration Preparation of Dilution Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Bolus intravenous injection Dilute 1 mL ( 0 . 2 mg ) in 9 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0 . 01 mg to 0 . 02 mg ( 0 . 5 mL to 1 mL of diluted solution ) The initial dose may be repeated when necessary Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Such solution should not be used .
HOW SUPPLIED Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL and 1 mg / 5 mL is supplied as a sterile , clear , colourless solution free from visible particulate matter in 3 mL and 5 mL single dose glass vials respectively .
NDC Container Concentration Fill Quantity 69918 - 731 - 10 Single - Dose Vial 0 . 2 mg / mL 1 mL Carton of 10 Single - Dose Vials 69918 - 735 - 10 Single - Dose Vial 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) 5 mL Carton of 10 Single - Dose Vials Protect from light .
Keep in opaque container until used .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not use if the injection is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or contains a precipitate .
Manufactured for : Amring Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Berwyn , PA 19312 www . amringusa . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] The Amring Logo and the “ A ” Logo are trademarks of Amring Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Manufactured by : Indoco Remedies Limited Verna , Goa , 403722 , India Origin India P21A00005 Revised : 01 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - ISOPROTERENOL HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION LABELS NDC 69918 - 731 - 01 Rx Only Isoproterenol HCI Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL Protect from light .
P21A00001 Amring Pharmaceuticals Inc . Rev 01 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69918 - 731 - 10 Rx Only Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL Intravenous , Subcutaneous , Intramuscular or Intracardiac Use Only 10 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69918 - 735 - 01 Rx Only Isoproterenol HCI Injection , USP 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) Intravenous , Subcutaneous , Intramuscular or Intracardiac Use Only 5 mL Single - Dose Vial Rev 01 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69918 - 735 - 10 Rx Only Isoproterenol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 1 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) Intravenous , Subcutaneous , Intramuscular or Intracardiac Use Only 10 x 5 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
