Active Ingredients Octyl Methoxycinnamate 6 % Oxybenzone 5 % Titanium Dioxide 6 . 3 % Zinc Oxide 9 . 9 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes - Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to sun • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying , at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
to decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . , wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses , children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Acrylates copolymer , Ammonia , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Cyclomethicone 5 , Iodopropynl butylcarbamate , Lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 methicone , Methyl glucose dioleate , Methlchloroisothiazolinone , Methylisothiazolinone , Phenoxyethanol , Phenyl trimethicone , Polyhydroxystearic acid , Purified water , Silica dimethyl silylate , Silicone dioxide , Sodium chloride , Sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate , Stearic acid , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Vertra Inc - 875 Waimanu St . # 614 A Honolulu , HI 96813 - 1 ( 808 ) 593 - 8378 www . vertra . com Vertra Elemental Resistance is proud to be the Official Suncare provider for the Hawaiian Lifeguard Association Distributed by : Vertra Inc .
Honolulu , HI 96813 Made in Australia www . vertra . com Principal Display Panel Vertra Elemental Resistance 50 + SUNPROTECTIONCREAM BROAD SPECTRUM SPF50 + UVA / UVB Protection WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) SUNSCREEN Net .
Wt .
2 . 8 oz ( 80 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
