Drug Facts Active Ingredient Zinc Oxide 15 % Purpose Sunscreen Keep out of reach of children .
Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings When Using This Product • If product gets into eyes , rinse thoroughly with water • If irritation or stinging occurs , wash area with water For external use only .
If swallowed , get medical help right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs .
Directions Shake Well Adults and children 6 months of age and over Apply liberally and evenly to skin area 15 minutes before you are exposed to sun or water .
Reapply at least every two hours .
Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating . ”
Children under 6 months of age Ask a doctor Consult a physician for use on children under 6 months .
Inactive ingredients C12 - C15 alkyl benzoic acid , Cetearyl alcohol and ceteareth - 20 , Citric acid , Corn starch , Dimethicone , Ethylhexyl glycerin , Glyceryl stearate , Isostearic acid , Methyl gluceth - 10 , Methylcellulose , PEG - 40 stearate , Polyhydroxystearic acid , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene glycol , SDA 40 B alcohol , Xanthan gum , Water SPF 30 broad spectrum sunscreen formulated for scars perfect protection for scars ' sensitive skin UVA / UVB protection A Sunscreen Especially for Scars .
From the Scar Experts at Dermaflage .
Scar tissue is fragile and particularly susceptible to the harmful rays of the sun .
That ' s why we developed ScarScreen , the perfect protection for scars ' sensitive skin .
Ideal for use following cosmetic procedures , Doctors recommend sun protection for minimizing a scar and preventing hyperpigmentation .
Conceal and protect your scar - ScarScreen is specially formulated to work with Dermaflage Topical Filler .
* No synthetic chemical sunscreen * Hypoallergenic * Ideal for use after surgery * Fragrance free * Specially formulated to work with Dermaflage Topical Filler Made in the U . S . A . Distributed by Silicone Arts Labs , Inc .
Memphis , Tn 38104 Dermaflage . com | 1 - 855 - 228 - 4022 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
