LIDOCAINE 4 % Drug Facts Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Pain Reliever Use For temporary relief of pain associated with minor skin irritations due to tattooing , piercing , and hair removal Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes Do not use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in lidocaine cream or to similar medicines ( for example , local anesthetics such as benzocaine ) • in large quantities , particulary over raw surfaces or blistered areas Ask a doctor before use if you have had an allergic reaction ( for example , rash , hives , dizziness ) to any anesthetic medicine Stop use and ask a doctor if • you develop a persistant rash • condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Stop use and ask a doctor if • you develop a persistent rash • side effects occur , condition worsens , or • symptoms persist for more than 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • for adult use only • before procedure , apply a small amount of 4 % Lidocaine to affected area and allow to dry .
Application may be repeated up to 4 times daily .
Other information • see bottom of carton for lot number and expiration date • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • do not use if carton is damaged or open • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , arginine , benzophenone - 4 , cetyl alcohol , dimethyl sulfoxide , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , phenoxyethanol ( and ) caprylyl glycol ( and ) potassium sorbate ( and ) water ( and ) hexylene glycol , purified water , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , sodium polyacrylate , stearic acid Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 or www . getskullduggery . com VITAMIN A & D Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Lanolin 15 . 5 % Skin protectant Petrolatum 53 . 4 % Skin protectant Use Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation due to tattooing , piercing , and hair removal Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Do not use on • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Direction After procedure , apply A & D Ointment as needed to affected skin .
Other information • see bottom of carton for lot number and expiration date • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • do not use if carton is damaged or open • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients beeswax , cod liver oil ( contains vitamin A & vitamin D ) , fragrance , mineral oil , microcrystalline wax Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 or www . getskullduggery . com This product is manufactured and distributed by Natureplex ™ .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton SKULLDUGGERY NDC # 67234 - 047 - 01 For Temporary Pain Relief associated with Tattoos , Piercing , and Hair Removal 1 TUBE ( 35 g ) LIDOCAINE 4 % PAIN RELIEVING CREAM NET WT .
1 . 25 Oz .
( 35 g ) 1 TUBE ( 35 g ) A & D OINTMENT SKIN PROTECTANT NET WT .
1 . 25 Oz .
( 35 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
