Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years of age 5 mL – 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL – 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients ammonium glycyrrhizate , anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , flavors , glycerin ( soy ) , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions ?
1 - 866 - MUCINEX ( 1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton Pediatrician Recommended † DAYTIME NDC 63824 - 957 - 64 Mucinex ® Children ' s FREEFROM COUGH & MUCUS DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBr – COUGH SUPPRESSANT GUAIFENESIN – EXPECTORANT FREEFROM ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS , COLORS , & DYES • ALCOHOL & SUGAR HONEY & BERRY NATURAL FLAVOR AGES 4 + YRS .
4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
