DESCRIPTION Each gram of Mupirocin Ointment USP , 2 % contains 20 mg mupirocin in a bland water miscible ointment base ( polyethylene glycol ointment , N . F . ) consisting of polyethylene glycol 400 and polyethylene glycol 3350 .
Mupirocin is a naturally occurring antibiotic .
The chemical name is ( E ) - ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 R , 5 S ) - 5 - [ ( 2 S , 3 S , 4 S , 5 S ) - 2 , 3 - Epoxy - 5 - hydroxy - 4 - methylhexyl ] tetrahydro - 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - β - methyl - 2 H - pyran - 2 - crotonic acid , ester with 9 - hydroxynonanoic acid .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 26 H 44 O 9 M . W . 500 . 63 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Application of 14 C - labeled mupirocin ointment to the lower arm of normal male subjects followed by occlusion for 24 hours showed no measurable systemic absorption ( < 1 . 1 nanogram mupirocin per milliliter of whole blood ) .
Measurable radioactivity was present in the stratum corneum of these subjects 72 hours after application .
Following intravenous or oral administration , mupirocin is rapidly metabolized .
The principal metabolite , monic acid , is eliminated by renal excretion , and demonstrates no antibacterial activity .
In a trial conducted in 7 healthy adult male subjects , the elimination half - life after intravenous administration of mupirocin was 20 to 40 minutes for mupirocin and 30 to 80 minutes for monic acid .
The pharmacokinetics of mupirocin has not been studied in individuals with renal insufficiency .
Microbiology Mupirocin is an antibacterial agent produced by fermentation using the organism Pseudomonasfluorescens .
Mupirocin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by reversibly and specifically binding to bacterial isoleucyl transfer - RNA ( tRNA ) synthetase .
Due to this unique mode of action , mupirocin does not demonstrate cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobial agents .
When mupirocin resistance occurs , it results from the production of a modified isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase , or the acquisition of , by genetic transfer , a plasmid mediating a new isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase .
High - level plasmid - mediated resistance ( MIC > 512 mcg / mL ) has been reported in increasing numbers of isolates of Staphylococcusaureus and with higher frequency in coagulase - negative staphylococci .
Mupirocin resistance occurs with greater frequency in methicillin - resistant than methicillin - susceptible staphylococci .
Because of the occurrence of mupirocin resistance in methicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) , it is appropriate to test MRSA populations for mupirocin susceptibility prior to the use of mupirocin using a standardized method .
1 , 2 , 3 Mupirocin is bactericidal at concentrations achieved by topical administration .
Mupirocin is highly protein - bound ( > 97 % ) , and the effect of wound secretions on the MICs of mupirocin has not been determined .
Mupirocin has been shown to be active against susceptible strains of S . aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes , both in vitro and in clinical trials ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Mupirocin is active against most isolates of Staphylococcus epidermidis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin ointment USP , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to : S . aureus and S . pyogenes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the constituents of the product .
WARNINGS Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse well with water .
In the event of sensitization or severe local irritation from mupirocin ointment , usage should be discontinued .
Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including mupirocin ointment , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS As with other antibacterial products , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Mupirocin ointment is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
Intranasal use has been associated with isolated reports of stinging and drying .
A paraffin - based formulation – Bactroban ® Nasal ( mupirocin calcium ointment ) – is available for intranasal use .
Polyethylene glycol can be absorbed from open wounds and damaged skin and is excreted by the kidneys .
In common with other polyethylene glycol - based ointments , mupirocin ointment should not be used in conditions where absorption of large quantities of polyethylene glycol is possible , especially if there is evidence of moderate or severe renal impairment .
Mupirocin ointment should not be used with intravenous cannulae or at central intravenous sites because of the potential to promote fungal infections and antimicrobial resistance .
Information for Patients Use this medication only as directed by the healthcare provider .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If mupirocin ointment gets in or near the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
The medication should be stopped and the healthcare provider contacted if irritation , severe itching , or rash occurs .
If impetigo has not improved in 3 to 5 days , contact the healthcare provider .
Drug Interactions The effect of the concurrent application of mupirocin ointment and other drug products has not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential of mupirocin have not been conducted .
Results of the following studies performed with mupirocin calcium or mupirocin sodium in vitro and in vivo did not indicate a potential for genotoxicity : Rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis , sediment analysis for DNA strand breaks , Salmonella reversion test ( Ames ) , Escherichia coli mutation assay , metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and bone marrow micronuclei assay in mice .
Reproduction studies were performed in male and female rats with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 14 times a human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m 2 basis and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility and reproductive performance from mupirocin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 22 and 43 times , respectively , the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m 2 basis and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to mupirocin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when mupirocin ointment is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of mupirocin ointment have been established in the age range of 2 months to 16 years .
Use of mupirocin ointment in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled trials of mupirocin ointment in impetigo in pediatric subjects studied as a part of the pivotal clinical trials ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of mupirocin ointment : burning , stinging , or pain in 1 . 5 % of subjects ; itching in 1 % of subjects ; rash , nausea , erythema , dry skin , tenderness , swelling , contact dermatitis , and increased exudate in less than 1 % of subjects .
Systemic allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , angioedema , and generalized rash have been reported in patients treated with formulations of mupirocin .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of mupirocin ointment should be applied to the affected area 3 times daily .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired .
Patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days should be re - evaluated .
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of topical mupirocin ointment in impetigo was tested in 2 trials .
In the first , subjects with impetigo were randomized to receive either mupirocin ointment or vehicle placebo 3 times daily for 8 to 12 days .
Clinical efficacy rates at end of therapy in the evaluable populations ( adults and pediatric subjects included ) were 71 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 49 ) and 35 % for vehicle placebo ( n = 51 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates in the evaluable populations were 94 % for mupirocin ointment and 62 % for vehicle placebo .
There were no side effects reported in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
In the second trial , subjects with impetigo were randomized to receive either mupirocin ointment 3 times daily or 30 to 40 mg / kg oral erythromycin ethylsuccinate per day ( this was an unblinded trial ) for 8 days .
There was a follow - up visit 1 week after treatment ended .
Clinical efficacy rates at the follow - up visit in the evaluable populations ( adults and pediatric subjects included ) were 93 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 29 ) and 78 . 5 % for erythromycin ( n = 28 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates in the evaluable populations were 100 % for both test groups .
There were no side effects reported in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
Pediatrics There were 91 pediatric subjects aged 2 months to 15 years in the first trial described above .
Clinical efficacy rates at end of therapy in the evaluable populations were 78 % for mupirocin ointment ( n = 42 ) and 36 % for vehicle placebo ( n = 49 ) .
In the second trial described above , all subjects were pediatric except 2 adults in the group receiving mupirocin ointment .
The age range of the pediatric subjects was 7 months to 13 years .
The clinical efficacy rate for mupirocin ointment ( n = 27 ) was 96 % , and for erythromycin it was unchanged ( 78 . 5 % ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Mupirocin Ointment USP , 2 % is supplied in 22 gram tubes ( NDC 0093 - 1010 - 42 ) .
Store at 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES 1 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute ( CLSI ) .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - Tenth Edition .
CLSI document M07 - A10 [ 2015 ] , Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA .
2 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute ( CLSI ) .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Diffusion Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard – Twelfth Edition .
CLSI document M02 - A12 [ 2015 ] , Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA .
3 .
Finlay JE , Miller LA , Poupard JA .
Interpretive criteria for testing susceptibility of staphylococci to mupirocin .
Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1997 ; 41 ( 5 ) : 1137 - 1139 .
All brand names listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Manufactured In Croatia By : PLIVA HRVATSKA d . o . o . Zagreb , Croatia Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . I 3 / 2015 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
