Active Ingredients Purpose Capsicum . 025 % Topical Analgesic Uses Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple back ache • strains • bruises Warnings Warnings For external use only .
When using this product When using this product • use only as directed • do not bandage • do not use with a heating pad • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • if severe burning sensation occurs , discontinue use immediately • do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • redness is present • irritation develops If pregnant or breastfeeding If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions adults and children over 18 years : • apply to affected area • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed • repeat as necessary , but no more than 3 to 4 times daily • WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER AFTER APPLYING • children 18 years or younger : ask a doctor Keep out of the reach of children .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • Apply to painful muscles and joint .
Gently massage thoroughly into affected area .
• Repeat as necessary but not more than 4 times daily .
Purpose Active Ingredients Purpose Capsicum . 025 % .............................. Topical Analgesic Inactive Ingredients Aqueous ( Deionized Water ) infusion of botanical extracts of Passiflora Incarnata , Arnica Montana , Ruscus Acluteatus , Hypericum Perforatum , Arctium Lappa , Anthemis Nobilis , * Aloe Barbadensis , Custom blend of * Helianthus annuus ( Sunflower Oil ) , * Olea Europaea ( Olive Oil ) , * Simmondsia Chinenesis ( Jojoba Oil ) , * Linum Usitatissimum ( Flax Seed Oil ) , Boswellia Serrata , Methylsulfonylmethane , Glycerin , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetyl Alcohol , Stearyl Alcohol , Juniperus Communis Oil , Origanum Marjorana Oil , Lavandula Officinalis Oil , Rosmarinus Officianalis Oil , Thymus Zygis Oil , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
