Drug Facts Active ingredient + Menthol 7 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly or use with a heating pad Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive skin irritation occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • shake well before each use • adults and children 12 years of age and over : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) • close cap tightly after use • see bottom of bottle for Lot No .
and Exp .
Date .
Inactive ingredients organic aloe vera leaf juice , organic ethyl alcohol , organic glycerin , organic licorice root extract , organic peppermint oil , purified water ( aqua ) , xanthan gum + Certified Organic , free of parabens , dyes , petroleum and genetically modified organisms Distributed by : Genexa Inc . , Beverly Hills , CA 90211 www . genexa . com Questions ?
1 - 855 - GENEXA - 1 Certified Organic by SCS Global Services MADE IN THE USA WITH GLOBALLY SOURCED INGREDIENTS Genexa ® COLD THERAPY PAIN RELIEF ROLL ON PAIN CRUSH ™ Menthol / Topical Analgesic 3 FL OZ ( 89 mL ) Back Pain + Arthritis / Sore Muscles + Joints / Shoulder + Leg Pain USDA ORGANIC NON GMO Project VERIFIED FREE OF DYES & PARABENS NDC 69676 - 0004 - 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
