1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is indicated for acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is a nitrate vasodilator indicated for acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • At the onset of an attack , one metered spray or two metered sprays should be administered on or under the tongue .
A spray may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes as needed ( 2 ) .
• Maximum of 3 metered sprays are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If chest pain persists after a total of 3 sprays , prompt medical attention is recommended ( 2 ) .
• May be used prophylactically 5 minutes to 10 minutes before engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack ( 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage At the onset of an attack , one metered spray or two metered sprays should be administered on or under the tongue .
A spray may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes as needed .
If two sprays are used initially , the patient may only administer one more spray after waiting 5 minutes .
No more than 3 metered sprays are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If chest pain persists after a total of 3 sprays , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol may be used prophylactically 5 minutes to 10 minutes before engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
2 . 2 Priming the Container After an initial priming of 10 sprays , each metered spray of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol delivers 33 mg of solution containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin .
It will remain adequately primed for 6 weeks .
If the product is not used within 6 weeks , it can be adequately re - primed with 2 sprays .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is available in either 200 metered sprays or 60 metered sprays per container , but the total number of available doses depends on the number of sprays per use ( 1 spray or 2 sprays ) , and the frequency of priming .
2 . 3 Administration During use the patient should rest , ideally in the sitting position .
The container should be held vertically with the valve head uppermost and the spray orifice as close to the mouth as possible .
The dose should preferably be sprayed into the mouth on or under the tongue by pressing the button firmly and the mouth should be closed immediately after each dose .
THE SPRAY SHOULD NOT BE INHALED .
Patients should be instructed to familiarize themselves with the position of the spray orifice , which can be identified by the finger rest on top of the valve , in order to facilitate orientation for administration at night .
• Do not shake container .
• Remove plastic cap .
• If this is the first time using the bottle , press actuator button 10 times to ensure proper dose priming ( holding unit away from yourself and others ) .
• Hold container upright with forefinger on top of the actuator button .
• Open mouth and bring the container as close as possible .
• Press the actuator button firmly with forefinger to release spray ( s ) onto or under the tongue .
• Release button and close mouth .
The medication should not be spit out or the mouth rinsed for 5 minutes to 10 minutes following administration .
• If a second administration is required to obtain relief , repeat steps 4 , 5 , and 6 .
No more than 3 metered sprays can be given within a 15 - minute period .
• Replace plastic cover .
• If the product is not used for more than 6 weeks , then it can be adequately re - primed with 2 sprays .
The level of the liquid in the container should be periodically checked .
While the container is in the upright position , if the liquid reaches the top or middle of the hole on the side of the container , one should order more .
When the liquid reaches the bottom of the hole , the remaining doses will have less than label content .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lingual aerosol , 400 mcg per spray , is available in either 200 metered sprays or 60 metered sprays per container .
Lingual aerosol , 400 mcg per spray is available in either 200 metered sprays or 60 metered sprays per container ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Use of a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 inhibitors ) , such as sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil ( 4 . 1 ) • Use of the soluble guanylate stimulator riociguat ( 4 . 1 ) • Severe anemia ( 4 . 2 ) • Increased intracranial pressure ( 4 . 3 ) • History of hypersensitivity to Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol or to other nitrates or nitrites ( 4 . 4 ) 4 . 1 PDE5 Inhibitor Use Administration of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 ) , as PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
Do not use Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
[ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Severe Anemia Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with severe anemia .
4 . 3 Increased Intracranial Pressure Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with increased intracranial pressure 4 . 4 Hypersensitivity Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to it or to other nitrates or nitrites .
Skin reactions consistent with hypersensitivity have been observed with organic nitrates .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tolerance : Excessive use may lead to tolerance ( 5 . 1 ) .
5 . 1 Tolerance Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance .
Only the smallest number of doses required for effective relief of the acute anginal attack should be used [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) ] .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is reduced .
5 . 2 Hypotension Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin .
The drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume - depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
The benefits of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used because of the possibility of hypotension and tachycardia .
5 . 3 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
5 . 4 Headache Nitroglycerin produces dose - related headaches , which may be severe .
Tolerance to headaches occurs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are headache , flushing , hypotension , and syncope ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 567 - 0862 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm .
6 . 1 Headache Headache , which may be severe and persistent , may occur immediately after nitroglycerin use .
6 . 2 Flushing Flushing , drug rash and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
6 . 3 Hypotension Postural hypotension , as manifest by vertigo , weakness , palpitation , and other symptoms , may develop occasionally , particularly in erect , immobile patients .
Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates ( manifested by nausea , vomiting , weakness , diaphoresis , pallor , and collapse ) may occur at therapeutic doses .
6 . 4 Syncope Syncope due to nitrate vasodilatation has been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • PDE5 inhibitors : Concomitant use contraindicated ( 4 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator ( sGS ) : Concomitant use contraindicated ( 4 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Antihypertensives : Possible additive hypotensive effects ( 7 . 2 ) • Aspirin : increased nitroglycerin levels ( 7 . 3 ) • Tissue - type plasminogen activator ( t - PA ) : decreased thrombolytic effect ( 7 . 4 ) • Heparin : anticoagulant effect of heparin may be reduced .
Monitor APTT .
( 7 . 5 ) • Ergotamine : increased bioavailability of ergotamine .
Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 PDE5 Inhibitors Administration of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 ) .
PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
Do not use Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use may result in severe hypotension , syncope , or myocardial ischemia .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied , and use within a few days of one another cannot be recommended .
Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The use of any form of nitroglycerin during the early days of acute myocardial infarction requires particular attention to hemodynamic monitoring and clinical status .
7 . 2 Antihypertensives Patients receiving antihypertensive drugs , beta - adrenergic blockers , and nitrates should be observed for possible additive hypotensive effects .
Marked orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used concomitantly .
Labetolol blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effects .
If labetolol is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris , additional hypotensive effects may occur .
7 . 3 Aspirin Coadministration of aspirin and nitroglycerin has been reported to result in increased nitroglycerin maximum concentrations by as much as 67 % and AUC by 73 % when administered as a single dose .
The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of aspirin .
7 . 4 Tissue - type Plasminogen Activator ( t - PA ) Intravenous administration of nitroglycerin decreases the thrombolytic effect of tissue - type plasminogen activator ( t - PA ) .
Plasma levels of t - PA are reduced when coadministered with nitroglycerin .
Therefore , caution should be observed in patients receiving nitroglycerin during t - PA therapy .
7 . 5 Heparin Intravenous nitroglycerin reduces the anticoagulant effect of heparin .
Activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTT ) should be monitored in patients receiving heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin .
It is not known if this effect occurs following single nitroglycerin doses .
7 . 6 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first - pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability .
Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris .
Therefore , patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy category C : Animal reproduction and teratogenicity studies have not been conducted with Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol or nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
It is also not known whether Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
A teratogenicity study was conducted in the third mating of F0 generation female rats administered dietary nitroglycerin for gestation day 6 to day 15 at dose levels used in the 3 - generation reproduction study .
In offspring of the high - dose nitroglycerin group , increased incidence of diaphragmatic hernias and decreased hyoid bone ossification were seen .
The latter finding probably reflects delayed development rather than a potential teratogenic effect , thus indicating no clear evidence of teratogenicity of nitroglycerin .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly ( greater than or equal to 65 years ) and younger ( less than 65 years ) patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of hemodynamic effects : The effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ’ s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; tachycardia ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort , diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ’ s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is not recommended .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Methemoglobinemia has been rarely reported with organic nitrates .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate arterial PO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
If methemoglobinemia is present , intravenous administration of methylene blue , 1 mg / kg to 2 mg / kg of body weight , may be required .
11 DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilator which has effects on both arteries and veins .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate ( C3H5N3O9 ) .
The compound has a molecular weight of 227 . 09 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol ( nitroglycerin ) lingual aerosol is a metered - dose spray containing 200 or 60 metered sprays of nitroglycerin per container .
This product delivers 400 mcg of nitroglycerin per actuation in the form of spray droplets on or under the tongue .
Inactive ingredients : caprylic / capric diglycerol succinate , peppermint oil , L ( - ) - menthol , n - butane .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide ( NO ) , which activates guanylate cyclase , resulting in an increase of guanosine 3 ’ , 5 ’ - monophosphate ( cyclic GMP ) in smooth muscle and other tissues .
This eventually leads to dephosphorylation of myosin light chains , which regulates the contractile state in smooth muscle and results in vasodilatation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
Although venous effects predominate , nitroglycerin produces , in a dose - related manner , dilation of both arterial and venous beds .
Dilation of the postcapillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood , decreases venous return to the heart , and reduces left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( preload ) .
Nitroglycerin also produces arteriolar relaxation , thereby reducing peripheral vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( after load ) , and dilates large epicardial coronary arteries ; however , the extent to which this latter effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , and pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably a reflex response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index , and stroke - work index ) is decreased and a more favorable supply - demand ratio can be achieved .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure and increased systemic vascular resistance in association with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
In contrast , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced following nitroglycerin administration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Nitroglycerin is rapidly absorbed following lingual spray administration .
In a pharmacokinetic study when a single 1200 mcg dose ( three activations of a 400 mcg dose ) of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol was administered to healthy volunteers ( n = 12 ) , all subjects had detectable trinitroglycerin plasma levels ( mean Cmax 0 . 8 ng / mL ± 0 . 7 ng / mL and tmax of 8 minutes , range 4 minutes to 15 minutes ) beginning at 2 minutes post - dose and higher levels of the 1 , 2 - ( mean Cmax 3 . 7 ng / mL ± 1 ng / mL and tmax 34 minutes ± 21 minutes , range 15 minutes to 90 minutes ) and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites ( mean Cmax 1 ng / mL ± 0 . 3 ng / mL and mean tmax 41 minutes ± 20 minutes , range 20 minutes to 90 minutes ) .
The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin following intravenous administration is 3 . 3 L / kg .
A liver reductase enzyme is of primary importance in the metabolism of nitroglycerin to glycerol di - and mononitrate metabolites and ultimately to glycerol and organic nitrate .
Known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
In addition to nitroglycerin , 2 major metabolites , 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin are found in plasma .
The mean elimination half - life of both 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is about 40 minutes .
The 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites have been reported to possess some pharmacological activity , whereas the glycerol mononitrate metabolites of nitroglycerin are essentially inactive .
Higher plasma concentrations of the dinitro metabolites , with their nearly 8 - fold longer elimination half - lives , may contribute significantly to the duration of pharmacologic effect .
In the above referenced pharmacokinetic study the average initial half - lives ( T ½ α ) of nitroglycerin , and its 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites were estimated to be 3 minutes , 10 minutes , and 11 minutes , respectively .
The half - life of disappearance of the nitroglycerin ( T ½ β ) ( 5 minutes ) was significantly less than the half - life of appearance ( T ½ α ) of the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites suggesting the possibility of an additional compartment into which the nitroglycerin disappears from plasma prior to being metabolized into the dinitroglycerin metabolites .
A second indication of this other compartment is that the appearance of nitroglycerin metabolites in plasma was delayed in some subjects , with zero plasma levels seen for 4 minutes to 6 minutes after dosing .
In some subjects , nitroglycerin metabolites appeared only after nitroglycerin Cmax had been observed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal carcinogenicity studies with sublingually administered or lingual spray nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At the highest dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas was 52 % compared to 0 % in untreated controls .
Incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was found to have reverse mutation activity in the Salmonella typhimurium strain TA1535 ( Ames assay ) .
A similar mutation in S . typhimurium strain was also reported for other NO donors .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with oral doses of up to about 363 mg / kg / day or in ex vitrocytogenic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In vitro cytogenetic assay using Chinese hamster ovary cells showed no chromosomal aberrations .
In a 3 - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 408 mg / kg / day ( males ) to 452 mg / kg / day ( females ) for 5 months ( females ) or 6 months ( males ) prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The highest dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , double - blind , single - center , single - administration , placebo - controlled , 4 - period cross - over study in 30 subjects with stable angina pectoris , statistically significant dose - related increases in exercise tolerance were seen following doses of 200 mcg , 400 mcg , and 800 mcg of nitroglycerin delivered by Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol compared to placebo .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each box of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol contains one glass bottle coated with red / orange transparent plastic which assists in containing the glass and medication should the bottle be shattered .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is available as an 8 . 5 g ( Net Content ) of nitroglycerin lingual aerosol that will deliver 200 metered sprays containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin per actuation or as a 4 . 1 g ( Net Content ) of nitroglycerin lingual aerosol that will deliver 60 metered sprays containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin per actuation .
200 metered sprays : NDC 43478 - 410 - 07 60 metered sprays : NDC 43478 - 410 - 03 • Storage • Handling Store at room temperature ( 25 oC , 77 oF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 oto 30 oC ( 59 o to 85 oF ) Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol contains a highly flammable propellant ( butane ) .
Do not forcefully open a Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol bottle , do not have the container burned after use , and do not spray directly toward flames .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Interaction with PDE5 Inhibitors Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol should not be used in patients who are using medications for erectile dysfunction such as sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil .
These products have been shown to increase the hypotensive effects of nitrate drugs such as Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol .
17 . 2 Administration Patients should be instructed that prior to initial use of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol , the pump must be primed by pressing the actuator button 10 times to ensure proper dose priming .
If the product is not used for more than 6 weeks , the bottle can be adequately re - primed with 2 sprays .
Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is meant to be sprayed on or under the tongue at the beginning of angina or to prevent an angina attack .
Treatment with nitroglycerin products such as Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a laying or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have consumed alcohol , since alcohol use contributes to hypotension .
If possible , patients should be seated when taking Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol .
This reduces the likelihood of falling due to lightheadedness or dizziness [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 3 Headache Headaches can sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches may indicate activity of the drug .
Tolerance to headaches develops .
17 . 4 Flushing Flushing , drug rash and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
17 . 5 Container information The Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol bottle should not be forcefully opened .
Because Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol contains a highly flammable propellant ( butane ) , do not have the container burned after use and do not spray directly towards flames .
While the container is in the upright position , if the liquid reaches the top to middle of the hole on the side of the container , a new supply should be obtained .
When the liquid reaches the bottom of the hole , the remaining doses will have less than label content .
Manufactured for Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLC Cranford , NJ 07016 by Dynamit Nobel GmbH , Leverkusen , Germany Marketed and distributed by : Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLC Cranford , NJ 07016 USA 141F001 Revised 09 / 2016 PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol ( nitroglycerin ) Important : for use on or under the tongue .
Do not inhale .
Read these Patient Instructions For Use before you start using your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Priming Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] Before you use Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray for the first time , you must prime it .
To prime your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray , follow the steps below : • Do not shake the container .
• Remove the plastic cap from the container ( Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • While holding the container away from yourself and others , press the actuator button 10 times ( Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray is now primed .
You are ready to give your first dose .
• If you do not use your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray for more than 6 weeks , you will need to prime again by pressing the nozzle button 2 times .
Giving a dose 1 .
Hold your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray upright with your index finger on top of the actuator button .
Open your mouth and bring the Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray as close as possible to your mouth .
2 .
Press the actuator button firmly to release the Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol spray ( s ) onto or under your tongue ( Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Release the actuator button and close your mouth .
Do not spit out Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol or rinse your mouth for 5 to 10 minutes after using Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol .
4 .
If a second dose is needed , repeat steps 1 - 4 .
5 .
Replace the plastic cap ( Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] You should check the level of the fluid in your Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol container regularly .
Check the container in an upright position .
When the fluid level reaches the top or middle of the hole on the side of the container you should get a refill .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol ?
• Store Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol upright at room temperature 59 ° to 85 o F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is flammable .
Do not burn the Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol container after use , and do not spray directly toward flames .
• Do not forcefully open a Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol container .
Keep Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol and all medicines out of the reach of children Manufactured for Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLCCranford , NJ 07016 by Dynamit Nobel GmbH , Leverkusen , Germany Marketed and Distributed by : Rouses Point Pharmaceuticals , LLC Cranford , NJ 07016 USA permission .
NDC 43478 - 410 - 07 NDC 43478 - 410 - 03 141P001 Revised 09 / 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC - 43478 - 410 - 07 READ ENCLOSED PATIENT INFORMATION BEFORE USING Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol 400 mcg / spray Contains approximately 200 sprays for use on or under the tongue CONTAINER SHOULD BE UPRIGHT WHEN STORED OR USED 8 . 5 g Net Contents [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
