Spironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in chronic toxicity studies in rats ( see Precautions ) .
Spironolactone should be used only in those conditions described under Indications and Usage .
Unnecessary use of this drug should be avoided .
DESCRIPTION Spironolactone oral tablets contain 25 mg , 50 mg , or 100 mg of the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone , 17 - hydroxy - 7α - mercapto - 3 - oxo - 17α - pregn - 4 - ene - 21 - carboxylic acid γ - lactone acetate , which has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Spironolactone is practically insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and freely soluble in benzene and in chloroform .
Spironolactone tablets , 25 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , docusate sodium 85 % / sodium benzoate 15 % , entrapped peppermint flavor , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
Spironolactone tablets , 50 mg and 100 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , docusate sodium 85 % / sodium benzoate 15 % , entrapped peppermint flavor , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS / CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of action Spironolactone is a specific pharmacologic antagonist of aldosterone , acting primarily through competitive binding of receptors at the aldosterone - dependent sodiumpotassium exchange site in the distal convoluted renal tubule .
Spironolactone causes increased amounts of sodium and water to be excreted , while potassium is retained .
Spironolactone acts both as a diuretic and as an antihypertensive drug by this mechanism .
It may be given alone or with other diuretic agents which act more proximally in the renal tubule .
Aldosterone antagonist activity Increased levels of the mineralocorticoid , aldosterone , are present in primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism .
Edematous states in which secondary aldosteronism is usually involved include congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , and the nephrotic syndrome .
By competing with aldosterone for receptor sites , spironolactone provides effective therapy for the edema and ascites in those conditions .
Spironolactone counteracts secondary aldosteronism induced by the volume depletion and associated sodium loss caused by active diuretic therapy .
Spironolactone is effective in lowering the systolic and diastolic blood pressure in patients with primary hyperaldosteronism .
It is also effective in most cases of essential hypertension , despite the fact that aldosterone secretion may be within normal limits in benign essential hypertension .
Through its action in antagonizing the effect of aldosterone , spironolactone inhibits the exchange of sodium for potassium in the distal renal tubule and helps to prevent potassium loss .
Spironolactone has not been demonstrated to elevate serum uric acid , to precipitate gout , or to alter carbohydrate metabolism .
Pharmacokinetics Spironolactone is rapidly and extensively metabolized .
Sulfur - containing products are the predominant metabolites and are thought to be primarily responsible , together with spironolactone , for the therapeutic effects of the drug .
The following pharmacokinetic data were obtained from 12 healthy volunteers following the administration of 100 mg of spironolactone ( as tablets ) daily for 15 days .
On the 15 th day , spironolactone was given immediately after a low - fat breakfast and blood was drawn thereafter .
Accumulation Factor : AUC ( 0 - 24 hr , day 15 ) / AUC ( 0 - 24 hr , day 1 ) Mean Peak Serum Concentration Mean ( SD ) Post - Steady State Half - Life 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( TMS ) 1 . 25 391 ng / mL at 3 . 2 hr 13 . 8 hr ( 6 . 4 ) ( terminal ) 6 - β - hydroxy - 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( HTMS ) 1 . 50 125 ng / mL at 5 . 1 hr 15 . 0 hr ( 4 . 0 ) ( terminal ) Canrenone ( C ) 1 . 41 181 ng / mL at 4 . 3 hr 16 . 5 hr ( 6 . 3 ) ( terminal ) Spironolactone 1 . 30 80 ng / mL at 2 . 6 hr Approximately 1 . 4 hr ( 0 . 5 ) ( β half - life ) The pharmacological activity of spironolactone metabolites in man is not known .
However , in the adrenalectomized rat the antimineralocorticoid activities of the metabolites C , TMS , and HTMS , relative to spironolactone , were 1 . 10 , 1 . 28 , and 0 . 32 , respectively .
Relative to spironolactone , their binding affinities to the aldosterone receptors in rat kidney slices were 0 . 19 , 0 . 86 , and 0 . 06 , respectively .
In humans the potencies of TMS and 7 - α - thiospirolactone in reversing the effects of the synthetic mineralocorticoid , fludrocortisone , on urinary electrolyte composition were 0 . 33 and 0 . 26 , respectively , relative to spironolactone .
However , since the serum concentrations of these steroids were not determined , their incomplete absorption and / or first - pass metabolism could not be ruled out as a reason for their reduced in vivo activities .
Spironolactone and its metabolites are more than 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
The metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine and secondarily in bile .
The effect of food on spironolactone absorption ( two 100 mg spironolactone tablets ) was assessed in a single - dose study of 9 healthy , drug - free volunteers .
Food increased the bioavailability of unmetabolized spironolactone by almost 100 % .
The clinical importance of this finding is not known .
CLINICAL STUDIES Severe heart failure The Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study was a multinational , double - blind study in patients with an ejection fraction of ≤ 35 % , a history of New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) class IV heart failure within 6 months , and class III - IV heart failure at the time of randomization .
All patients were required to be taking a loop diuretic and , if tolerated , an ACE inhibitor .
Patients with a baseline serum creatinine of > 2 . 5 mg / dL or a recent increase of 25 % or with a baseline serum potassium of > 5 . 0 mEq / L were excluded .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to spironolactone 25 mg orally once daily or matching placebo .
Follow - up visits and laboratory measurements ( including serum potassium and creatinine ) were performed every four weeks for the first 12 weeks , then every 3 months for the first year , and then every 6 months thereafter .
Dosing could be withheld for serious hyperkalemia or if the serum creatinine increased to > 4 . 0 mg / dL .
Patients who were intolerant of the initial dosage regimen had their dose decreased to one tablet every other day at one to four weeks .
Patients who were tolerant of one tablet daily at 8 weeks may have had their dose increased to two tablets daily at the discretion of the investigator .
Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study enrolled 1 , 663 patients ( 3 % U . S . ) at 195 centers in 15 countries between March 24 , 1995 , and December 31 , 1996 .
The study population was primarily white ( 87 % , with 7 % black , 2 % Asian , and 4 % other ) , male ( 73 % ) , and elderly ( median age 67 ) .
The median ejection fraction was 0 . 26 .
Seventy percent were NYHA class III and 29 % class IV .
The presumed etiology of heart failure was ischemic in 55 % , and non - ischemic in 45 % .
There was a history of myocardial infarction in 28 % , of hypertension in 24 % , and of diabetes in 22 % .
The median baseline serum creatinine was 1 . 2 mg / dL and the median baseline creatinine clearance was 57 mL / min .
The mean daily dose at study end for the patients randomized to spironolactone was 26 mg .
Concomitant medications included a loop diuretic in 100 % of patients and an ACE inhibitor in 97 % .
Other medications used at any time during the study included digoxin ( 78 % ) , anticoagulants ( 58 % ) , aspirin ( 43 % ) , and beta - blockers ( 15 % ) .
The primary endpoint for Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study was time to all - cause mortality .
Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study was terminated early , after a mean follow - up of 24 months , because of significant mortality benefit detected on a planned interim analysis .
The survival curves by treatment group are shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 .
Survival by Treatment Group in Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Spironolactone reduced the risk of death by 30 % compared to placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ; 95 % confidence interval 18 % to 40 % ) .
Spironolactone reduced the risk of cardiac death , primarily sudden death and death from progressive heart failure by 31 % compared to placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ; 95 % confidence interval 18 % to 42 % ) .
Spironolactone also reduced the risk of hospitalization for cardiac causes ( defined as worsening heart failure , angina , ventricular arrhythmias or myocardial infarction ) by 30 % ( p < 0 . 001 95 % confidence interval 18 % to 41 % ) .
Changes in NYHA class were more favorable with spironolactone : In the spironolactone group , NYHA class at the end of the study improved in 41 % of patients and worsened in 38 % compared to improved in 33 % and worsened in 48 % in the placebo group ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
Mortality hazard ratios for some subgroups are shown in Figure 2 .
The favorable effect of spironolactone on mortality appeared similar for both genders and all age groups except patients younger than 55 ; there were too few non - whites in Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study to draw any conclusions about differential effects by race .
Spironolactone ' s benefit appeared greater in patients with low baseline serum potassium levels and less in patients with ejection fractions < 0 . 2 .
These subgroup analyses must be interpreted cautiously .
Figure 2 .
Hazard Ratios of All - Cause Mortality by Subgroup in Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : The size of each box is proportional to the sample size as well as the event rate .
ACEI denotes angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , LVEF denotes left ventricular ejection fraction , Cr Clearance denotes creatinine clearance and Ser Creatinine denotes serum creatinine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone is indicated in the management of : Primary hyperaldosteronism for : Establishing the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism by therapeutic trial .
Short - term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism .
Long - term maintenance therapy for patients with discrete aldosterone - producing adrenal adenomas who are judged to be poor operative risks or who decline surgery .
Long - term maintenance therapy for patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia ( idiopathic hyperaldosteronism ) .
Edematous conditions for patients with : Congestive heart failure : For the management of edema and sodium retention when the patient is only partially responsive to , or is intolerant of , other therapeutic measures .
Spironolactone is also indicated for patients with congestive heart failure taking digitalis when other therapies are considered inappropriate .
Cirrhosis of the liver accompanied by edema and / or ascites : Aldosterone levels may be exceptionally high in this condition .
Spironolactone is indicated for maintenance therapy together with bed rest and the restriction of fluid and sodium .
The nephrotic syndrome : For nephrotic patients when treatment of the underlying disease , restriction of fluid and sodium intake , and the use of other diuretics do not provide an adequate response .
Essential hypertension Usually in combination with other drugs , spironolactone is indicated for patients who cannot be treated adequately with other agents or for whom other agents are considered inappropriate .
Hypokalemia For the treatment of patients with hypokalemia when other measures are considered inappropriate or inadequate .
Spironolactone is also indicated for the prophylaxis of hypokalemia in patients taking digitalis when other measures are considered inadequate or inappropriate .
Severe heart failure ( NYHA class III – IV ) To increase survival , and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure when used in addition to standard therapy .
Usage in Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developing toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Spironolactone is indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes just as it is in the absence of pregnancy ( however , see Precautions : Pregnancy ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is unsupported and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is not harmful to either the fetus or the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone is contraindicated for patients with anuria , acute renal insufficiency , significant impairment of renal excretory function , or hyperkalemia .
WARNINGS Potassium supplementation Potassium supplementation , either in the form of medication or as a diet rich in potassium , should not ordinarily be given in association with spironolactone therapy .
Excessive potassium intake may cause hyperkalemia in patients receiving spironolactone ( see Precautions : General ) .
Spironolactone should not be administered concurrently with other potassium - sparing diuretics .
Spironolactone , when used with ACE inhibitors or indomethacin , even in the presence of a diuretic , has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Extreme caution should be exercised when spironolactone is given concomitantly with these drugs .
Hyperkalemia in patients with severe heart failure Hyperkalemia may be fatal .
It is critical to monitor and manage serum potassium in patients with severe heart failure receiving spironolactone .
Avoid using other potassium - sparing diuretics .
Avoid using oral potassium supplements in patients with serum potassium > 3 . 5 mEq / L .
Randomized Spironolactone Evaluation Study excluded patients with a serum creatinine > 2 . 5 mg / dL or a recent increase in serum creatinine > 25 % .
The recommended monitoring for potassium and creatinine is one week after initiation or increase in dose of spironolactone , monthly for the first 3 months , then quarterly for a year , and then every 6 months .
Discontinue or interrupt treatment for serum potassium > 5 mEq / L or for serum creatinine > 4 mg / dL .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES , Severe heart failure , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Severe heart failure . )
Spironolactone should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function because minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics ( see Precautions : Drug interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS General All patients receiving diuretic therapy should be observed for evidence of fluid or electrolyte imbalance , e . g . , hypomagnesemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hyperkalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , irrespective of cause , include dryness of the mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hyperkalemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function or excessive potassium intake and can cause cardiac irregularities , which may be fatal .
Consequently , no potassium supplement should ordinarily be given with spironolactone .
Concomitant administration of potassium - sparing diuretics and ACE inhibitors or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , e . g . , indomethacin , has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
If hyperkalemia is suspected ( warning signs include paresthesia , muscle weakness , fatigue , flaccid paralysis of the extremities , bradycardia and shock ) , an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) should be obtained .
However , it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes .
If hyperkalemia is present , spironolactone should be discontinued immediately .
With severe hyperkalemia , the clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed .
These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution , sodium bicarbonate solution and / or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid - acting insulin preparation .
These are temporary measures to be repeated as required .
Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered .
Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis .
Reversible hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis , usually in association with hyperkalemia , has been reported to occur in some patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis , even in the presence of normal renal function .
Dilutional hyponatremia , manifested by dryness of the mouth , thirst , lethargy , and drowsiness , and confirmed by a low serum sodium level , may be caused or aggravated , especially when spironolactone is administered in combination with other diuretics , and dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than administration of sodium , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
Spironolactone therapy may cause a transient elevation of BUN , especially in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
Spironolactone may cause mild acidosis .
Gynecomastia may develop in association with the use of spironolactone ; physicians should be alert to its possible onset .
The development of gynecomastia appears to be related to both dosage level and duration of therapy and is normally reversible when spironolactone is discontinued .
In rare instances some breast enlargement may persist when spironolactone is discontinued .
Information for patients Patients who receive spironolactone should be advised to avoid potassium supplements and foods containing high levels of potassium , including salt substitutes .
Laboratory tests Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be done at appropriate intervals , particularly in the elderly and those with significant renal or hepatic impairments .
Drug interactions ACE inhibitors Concomitant administration of ACE inhibitors with potassium - sparing diuretics has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Corticosteroids , ACTH Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia , may occur .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) Spironolactone reduces the vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine .
Therefore , caution should be exercised in the management of patients subjected to regional or general anesthesia while they are being treated with spironolactone .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant may result .
Lithium Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) In some patients , the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effect of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Combination of NSAIDs , e . g . , indomethacin , with potassium - sparing diuretics has been associated with severe hyperkalemia .
Therefore , when spironolactone and NSAIDs are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Digoxin Spironolactone has been shown to increase the half - life of digoxin .
This may result in increased serum digoxin levels and subsequent digitalis toxicity .
It may be necessary to reduce the maintenance and digitalization doses when spironolactone is administered , and the patient should be carefully monitored to avoid over or underdigitalization .
Drug / Laboratory test interactions Several reports of possible interference with digoxin radioimmunoassay by spironolactone , or its metabolites , have appeared in the literature .
Neither the extent nor the potential clinical significance of its interference ( which may be assay - specific ) has been fully established .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Orally administered spironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in dietary administration studies performed in rats , with its proliferative effects manifested on endocrine organs and the liver .
In an 18 - month study using doses of about 50 , 150 and 500 mg / kg / day , there were statistically significant increases in benign adenomas of the thyroid and testes and , in male rats , a dose - related increase in proliferative changes in the liver ( including hepatocytomegaly and hyperplastic nodules ) .
In a 24 - month study in which the same strain of rat was administered doses of about 10 , 30 , 100 and 150 mg spironolactone / kg / day , the range of proliferative effects included significant increases in hepatocellular adenomas and testicular interstitial cell tumors in males , and significant increases in thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in both sexes .
There was also a statistically significant , but not dose - related , increase in benign uterine endometrial stromal polyps in females .
A dose - related ( above 20 mg / kg / day ) incidence of myelocytic leukemia was observed in rats fed daily doses of potassium canrenoate ( a compound chemically similar to spironolactone and whose primary metabolite , canrenone , is also a major product of spironolactone in man ) for a period of one year .
In two - year studies in the rat , oral administration of potassium canrenoate was associated with myelocytic leukemia and hepatic , thyroid , testicular and mammary tumors .
Neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate produced mutagenic effects in tests using bacteria or yeast .
In the absence of metabolic activation , neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate has been shown to be mutagenic in mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , spironolactone has been reported to be negative in some mammalian mutagenicity tests in vitro and inconclusive ( but slightly positive ) for mutagenicity in other mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , potassium canrenoate has been reported to test positive for mutagenicity in some mammalian tests in vitro , inconclusive in others , and negative in still others .
In a three - litter reproduction study in which female rats received dietary doses of 15 and 50 mg spironolactone / kg / day , there were no effects on mating and fertility , but there was a small increase in incidence of stillborn pups at 50 mg / kg / day .
When injected into female rats ( 100 mg / kg / day for 7 days , i . p . ) , spironolactone was found to increase the length of the estrous cycle by prolonging diestrus during treatment and inducing constant diestrus during a two - week post - treatment observation period .
These effects were associated with retarded ovarian follicle development and a reduction in circulating estrogen levels , which would be expected to impair mating , fertility and fecundity .
Spironolactone ( 100 mg / kg / day ) , administered i . p . to female mice during a two - week cohabitation period with untreated males , decreased the number of mated mice that conceived ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of ovulation ) and decreased the number of implanted embryos in those that became pregnant ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of implantation ) , and at 200 mg / kg , also increased the latency period to mating .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Teratology studies with spironolactone have been carried out in mice and rabbits at doses of up to 20 mg / kg / day .
On a body surface area basis , this dose in the mouse is substantially below the maximum recommended human dose and , in the rabbit , approximates the maximum recommended human dose .
No teratogenic or other embryotoxic effects were observed in mice , but the 20 mg / kg dose caused an increased rate of resorption and a lower number of live fetuses in rabbits .
Because of its anti - androgenic activity and the requirement of testosterone for male morphogenesis , spironolactone may have the potential for adversely affecting sex differentiation of the male during embryogenesis .
When administered to rats at 200 mg / kg / day between gestation days 13 and 21 ( late embryogenesis and fetal development ) , feminization of male fetuses was observed .
Offspring exposed during late pregnancy to 50 and 100 mg / kg / day doses of spironolactone exhibited changes in the reproductive tract including dose - dependent decreases in weights of the ventral prostate and seminal vesicle in males , ovaries and uteri that were enlarged in females , and other indications of endocrine dysfunction , that persisted into adulthood .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with spironolactone in pregnant women .
Spironolactone has known endocrine effects in animals including progestational and antiandrogenic effects .
The antiandrogenic effects can result in apparent estrogenic side effects in humans , such as gynecomastia .
Therefore , the use of spironolactone in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against the possible hazards to the fetus .
Nursing mothers Canrenone , a major ( and active ) metabolite of spironolactone , appears in human breast milk .
Because spironolactone has been found to be tumorigenic in rats , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If use of the drug is deemed essential , an alternative method of infant feeding should be instituted .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported and , within each category ( body system ) , are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Digestive : Gastric bleeding , ulceration , gastritis , diarrhea and cramping , nausea , vomiting .
Endocrine : Gynecomastia ( see Precautions ) , inability to achieve or maintain erection , irregular menses or amenorrhea , postmenopausal bleeding .
Carcinoma of the breast has been reported in patients taking spironolactone but a cause and effect relationship has not been established .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis .
Hypersensitivity : Fever , urticaria , maculopapular or erythematous cutaneous eruptions , anaphylactic reactions , vasculitis .
Metabolism : Hyperkalemia ( see Warnings and Precautions ) .
Nervous system / psychiatric : Mental confusion , ataxia , headache , drowsiness , lethargy .
Liver / biliary : A very few cases of mixed cholestatic / hepatocellular toxicity , with one reported fatality , have been reported with spironolactone administration .
Renal : Renal dysfunction ( including renal failure ) .
OVERDOSAGE The oral LD50 of spironolactone is greater than 1 , 000 mg / kg in mice , rats , and rabbits .
Acute overdosage of spironolactone may be manifested by drowsiness , mental confusion , maculopapular or erythematous rash , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or diarrhea .
Rarely , instances of hyponatremia , hyperkalemia , or hepatic coma may occur in patients with severe liver disease , but these are unlikely due to acute overdosage .
Hyperkalemia may occur , especially in patients with impaired renal function .
Treatment Induce vomiting or evacuate the stomach by lavage .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment is supportive to maintain hydration , electrolyte balance , and vital functions .
Patients who have renal impairment may develop spironolactone - induced hyperkalemia .
In such cases , spironolactone should be discontinued immediately .
With severe hyperkalemia , the clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed .
These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution , sodium bicarbonate solution and / or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid - acting insulin preparation .
These are temporary measures to be repeated as required .
Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered .
Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Primary hyperaldosteronism Spironolactone may be employed as an initial diagnostic measure to provide presumptive evidence of primary hyperaldosteronism while patients are on normal diets .
Long test Spironolactone is administered at a daily dosage of 400 mg for three to four weeks .
Correction of hypokalemia and of hypertension provides presumptive evidence for the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism .
Short test Spironolactone is administered at a daily dosage of 400 mg for four days .
If serum potassium increases during spironolactone administration but drops when spironolactone is discontinued , a presumptive diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism should be considered .
After the diagnosis of hyperaldosteronism has been established by more definitive testing procedures , spironolactone may be administered in doses of 100 to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery .
For patients who are considered unsuitable for surgery , spironolactone may be employed for long - term maintenance therapy at the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient .
Edema in adults ( congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , or nephrotic syndrome ) An initial daily dosage of 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses is recommended , but may range from 25 to 200 mg daily .
When given as the sole agent for diuresis , spironolactone should be continued for at least five days at the initial dosage level , after which it may be adjusted to the optimal therapeutic or maintenance level administered in either single or divided daily doses .
If , after five days , an adequate diuretic response to spironolactone has not occurred , a second diuretic which acts more proximally in the renal tubule may be added to the regimen .
Because of the additive effect of spironolactone when administered concurrently with such diuretics , an enhanced diuresis usually begins on the first day of combined treatment ; combined therapy is indicated when more rapid diuresis is desired .
The dosage of spironolactone should remain unchanged when other diuretic therapy is added .
Essential hypertension .
For adults , an initial daily dosage of 50 to 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses is recommended .
Spironolactone may also be given with diuretics which act more proximally in the renal tubule or with other antihypertensive agents .
Treatment with spironolactone should be continued for at least two weeks , since the maximum response may not occur before this time .
Subsequently , dosage should be adjusted according to the response of the patient .
Hypokalemia Spironolactone in a dosage ranging from 25 mg to 100 mg daily is useful in treating a diuretic - induced hypokalemia , when oral potassium supplements or other potassium - sparing regimens are considered inappropriate .
Severe heart failure ( NYHA class III – IV ) Treatment should be initiated with spironolactone 25 mg once daily if the patient ' s serum potassium is ≤ 5 . 0 mEq / L and the patient ' s serum creatinine is ≤ 2 . 5 mg / dL .
Patients who tolerate 25 mg once daily may have their dosage increased to 50 mg once daily as clinically indicated .
Patients who do not tolerate 25 mg once - daily dose may have their dosage reduced to 25 mg every other day .
SEE WARNINGS : Hyperkalemia in patients with severe heart failure for advice on monitoring serum potassium and serum creatinine .
HOW SUPPLIED Spironolactone tablets , USP are supplied as follows : Spironolactone tablets 25 mg , white , round , unscored , debossed MP 35 Bottles of 30 NDC 21695 - 766 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] DISPENSE IN TIGHT , LIGHT - RESISTANT CONTAINER .
Manufactured by : MUTUAL PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY INC , Philadelphia , PA 19124 USA Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg , 30 Tablets , Label MP NDC 21695 - 766 - 30 SPIRONOLACTONE TABLETS USP 25 mg 30 TABLETS Rx only REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP THOUSAND OAKS , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
