active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 5 . 0 % purpose sunscreen uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun warnings For external use only do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away directions ■ apply liberally { and evenly } 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ reapply at least every 2 hours ■ use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information ■ protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , octyldodecyl neopentanoate , glycerin , emulsifying wax NF , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , dimethicone , phenoxyethanol , ethylhexylglycerin , caprylyl glycol , carbomer , triethanolamine , hydroxyacetophenone , disodium EDTA , ethylene brassylate , dipropylene glycol , dimethyl heptenal ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . , distributor of Neutogena Oil - Free Moisture with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF - 15 Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 2020 CVS / Pharmacy CVS . Com 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . & Imported parts V - 12339 CVS Quality Money Back Quarantee Actual Size principal display panel beauty 360 PARABEN PHTHALATE FREE OIL FREE MOISTURIZER BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN LOTION UVA / UVB protection Dermatologist tested Non - Comedogenic COMPARE TO NEUTROGENA OIL - FREE MOISTURE BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 CVS pharmacy Actual Product size on Back Panel 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
