DESCRIPTION Each Fluoride Chewable Tablet 0 . 5 mg is erythrosine ( FD & C Red Dye No . 3 ) free .
Each tablet contains 0 . 5 mg F * from 1 . 1 mg sodium fluoride ( NaF ) .
Each tablet for oral administration contains sodium fluoride equivalent to fluoride 0 . 5 mg and the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , D & C Red No . 27 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake , grape flavor , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , sucrose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium fluoride acts systemically ( before tooth eruption ) and topically ( post eruption ) by increasing tooth resistance to acid dissolution , by promoting remineralization , and by inhibiting the cariogenic microbial process .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For once daily self - applied systemic use as a dental caries preventive in pediatric patients .
It has been established that ingestion of fluoridated drinking water ( 1 ppm F * ) during the period of tooth development results in a significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries .
Fluoride Chewable Tablets were developed to provide systemic fluoride for use as a supplement in pediatric patients from 6 months to 3 years of age and older living in areas where the drinking water fluoride content does not exceed 0 . 6 ppm F * .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluoride Chewable Tablets 0 . 5 mg are contraindicated when the fluoride content of drinking water is more than 0 . 6 ppm F * and should not be administered to pediatric patients under 6 years of age when the fluoride content of drinking water is 0 . 3 ppm F * or to pediatric patients under age 3 years .
Do not administer Fluoride Chewable Tablets ( any strength ) to pediatric patients under age 6 months .
WARNINGS Prolonged daily ingestion of quantities greater than the recommended amount may result in various degrees of dental fluorosis in pediatric patients under age 6 years , especially if the water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm .
Read directions carefully before using .
Keep out of the reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General : Please refer to CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE sections for overdosage concerns .
Use in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months is not recommended by current American Dental Association and American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines .
Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration .
Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride , which is poorly absorbed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported for male rats treated with 2 . 5 mg and 4 . 1 mg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats , males or females treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
This dose is at least 400 times greater than the recommended daily dose of Fluoride Chewable Tablets .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shown that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those in which humans are exposed .
In vivo data is conflicting .
Some studies report chromosome damage in rodents while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans has not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower doses of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
This dose is approximately 200 times greater than the recommended daily dose of Fluoride Chewable Tablets .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B .
It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
Epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if fluoride ion is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in human milk and caution should be exercised when Fluoride Chewable Tablets 0 . 5 mg are administered to nursing women .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
This dose is at least 200 times greater than the recommended daily dose of Fluoride Chewable Tablets .
Pediatric Use The use of Fluoride Chewable Tablets 0 . 5 mg as a caries preventive in pediatric age groups 6 months to 16 years is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies on fluoride supplementation from birth through adolescence .
Geriatric Use Fluoride Chewable Tablets 0 . 5 mg are not indicated for use in geriatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have rarely been reported .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
OVERDOSAGE Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) has been ingested , give calcium ( e . g . , milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) has been ingested , induce vomiting , give orally soluble calcium ( e . g . milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dissolve in the mouth or chew before swallowing , preferably at bedtime after brushing teeth .
HOW SUPPLIED Chewable tablets containing 0 . 5 mg fluoride are purple - colored , grape flavor , un - scored , round , debossed “ 105 ” .
Available in bottles of 120 ’ s and 1000 ’ s .
NDC : 59088 - 105 - 73 STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
* F from sodium fluoride .
Inactive Ingredients croscarmellose sodium , D & C Red No . 27 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake , grape flavor , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
