1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation in the setting of anesthesia .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation in the setting of anesthesia .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL , is injected intravenously either as a bolus or in a dilute solution as a continuous infusion .
Dilute before administration .
Dosing for treatment of hypotension during anesthesia • Bolus intravenous injection : 40 mcg to 100 mcg every 1 - 2 minutes as needed , not to exceed 200 mcg .
• Intravenous infusion : 10 mcg / min to 35 mcg / min , titrating to effect , not to exceed 200 mcg / min .
• Adjust the dose according to the pressor response ( i . e . , titrate to effect ) .
2 . 1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus or continuous intravenous infusion to achieve the desired concentration : · Bolus : Dilute with normal saline or 5 % dextrose in water .
· Continuous infusion : Dilute with normal saline or 5 % dextrose in water .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use if the solution is colored or cloudy , or if it contains particulate matter .
The diluted solution should not be held for more than 4 hours at room temperature or for more than 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Discard any unused portion .
During Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection administration : · Correct intravascular volume depletion .
· Correct acidosis .
Acidosis may reduce the effectiveness of phenylephrine .
2 . 2 Dosing for Treatment of Hypotension during Anesthesia The following are the recommended dosages for the treatment of hypotension during anesthesia .
• The recommended initial dose is 40 to 100 mcg administered by intravenous bolus .
Additional boluses may be administered every 1 - 2 minutes as needed ; not to exceed a total dosage of 200 mcg .
• If blood pressure is below the target goal , start a continuous intravenous infusion with an infusion rate of 10 to 35 mcg / minute ; not to exceed 200 mcg / minute .
• Adjust dosage according to the blood pressure goal .
2 . 3 Prepare a 100 mcg / mL Solution for Bolus Intravenous Administration For bolus intravenous administration , prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 100 mcg / mL of Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection : · Withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of 10 mg / mL ) of Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection and dilute with 99 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
· Withdraw an appropriate dose from the 100 mcg / mL solution prior to bolus intravenous administration .
2 . 4 Prepare a Solution for Continuous Intravenous Administration For continuous intravenous infusion , prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 20 mcg / mL of Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP : · Withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of 10 mg / mL ) of Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection and dilute with 500 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
2 . 5 Directions for Dispensing from Pharmacy Bulk Vial The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion .
Each closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Dispensing from a pharmacy bulk vial should be completed within 4 hours after the vial is penetrated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL , for intravenous use , is available in three vial sizes : • Injection : 10 mg / mL as a clear , colorless solution in a single dose 1 mL vial ( 10 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) • Injection : 10 mg / mL as a clear , colorless solution in Pharmacy Bulk Package 5 mL vial ( 50 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) that will provide five 1 mL single doses • Injection : 10 mg / mL as a clear , colorless solution in Pharmacy Bulk Package 10 mL vial ( 100 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) that will provide ten 1 mL single doses Injection ( 3 ) • 1 mL single - dose vials containing 10 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) • 5 mL pharmacy bulk package vials containing 50 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) • 10 mL pharmacy bulk package vials containing 100 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Exacerbation of Angina , Heart Failure , or Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can precipitate angina in patients with severe arteriosclerosis or history of angina , exacerbate underlying heart failure , and increase pulmonary arterial pressure .
( 5 . 1 ) • Peripheral and Visceral Ischemia : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause excessive peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction and ischemia to vital organs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Skin and Subcutaneous Necrosis : Extravasation during intravenous administration may cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bradycardia : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output .
( 5 . 4 ) • Exacerbation of Angina , Heart Failure , or Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can precipitate angina in patients with severe arteriosclerosis or history of angina , exacerbate underlying heart failure , and increase pulmonary arterial pressure .
( 5 . 1 ) • Peripheral and Visceral Ischemia : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause excessive peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction and ischemia to vital organs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Skin and Subcutaneous Necrosis : Extravasation during intravenous administration may cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bradycardia : Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Exacerbation of Angina , Heart Failure , or Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Because of its increasing blood pressure effects , Phenylephrine hydrochloride can precipitate angina in patients with severe arteriosclerosis or history of angina , exacerbate underlying heart failure , and increase pulmonary arterial pressure .
5 . 2 Peripheral and Visceral Ischemia Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause excessive peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction and ischemia to vital organs , particularly in patients with extensive peripheral vascular disease .
5 . 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Necrosis Extravasation of Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue .
The infusion site should be checked for free flow .
Care should be taken to avoid extravasation of Phenylephrine hydrochloride .
5 . 4 Bradycardia Phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output .
5 . 5 Allergic Reactions Phenylephrine hydrochloride contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
5 . 6 Renal Toxicity Phenylephrine hydrochloride can increase the need for renal replacement therapy in patients with septic shock .
Monitor renal function .
5 . 7 Risk of Augmented Pressor Affect in Patients with Autonomic Dysfunction The increasing blood pressure response to adrenergic drugs , including Phenylephrine hydrochloride , can be increased in patients with autonomic dysfunction , as may occur with spinal cord injuries .
5 . 8 Pressor Effect with Concomitant Oxytocic Drugs Oxytocic drugs potentiate the increasing blood pressure effect of sympathomimetic pressor amines including Phenylephrine hydrochloride [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] , with the potential for hemorrhagic stroke .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to Phenylephrine hydrochloride are primarily attributable to excessive pharmacologic activity .
Adverse reactions reported in published clinical studies , observational trials , and case reports of Phenylephrine hydrochloride are listed below by body system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Reflex bradycardia , lowered cardiac output , ischemia , hypertension , arrhythmias Gastrointestinal disorders : Epigastric pain , vomiting , nausea Nervous system disorders : Headache , blurred vision , neck pain , tremors Vascular disorders : Hypertensive crisis Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Pruritis Most common adverse reactions during treatment : nausea , vomiting , and headache .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Somerset Therapeutics , LLC at 1 - 800 - 417 - 9175 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agonistic effects ( increase in Phenylephrine hydrochloride blood pressure effect ) can occur with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) , oxytocin and oxytocic drugs , , tricyclic antidepressants , angiotensin and aldosterone , atropine , steroids , norepinephrine transporter inhibitors , ergot alkaloids .
( 7 . 1 ) • Antagonistic effects ( decrease in Phenylephrine hydrochloride blood pressure effect ) can occur with α - adrenergic antagonists , phosphodiesterase Type 5 inhibitors , mixed α - and β - receptor antagonists , calcium channel blockers , benzodiazepines and ACE inhibitors , centrally acting sympatholytic agents ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Interactions that Augment Pressor Effect The increasing blood pressure effect of Phenylephrine hydrochloride is increased in patients receiving : · Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) · Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs · Tricyclic antidepressants · Angiotensin , aldosterone · Atropine · Steroids , such as hydrocortisone · Norepinephrine transporter inhibitors , such as atomoxetine · Ergot alkaloids , such as methyl ergonovine maleate 7 . 2 Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect The increasing blood pressure effect of Phenylephrine hydrochloride is decreased in patients receiving : · α - adrenergic antagonists · Phosphodiesterase Type 5 inhibitors · Mixed α - and β - receptor antagonists · Calcium channel blockers , such as nifedipine · Benzodiazepines · ACE inhibitors · Centrally acting sympatholytic agents , such as reserpine , guanfacine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Data from randomized controlled trials and meta - analyses with phenylephrine hydrochloride injection use in pregnant women during Cesarean section have not established a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
These studies have not identified an adverse effect on maternal outcomes or infant Apgar scores [ see Data ] .
There are no data on the use of phenylephrine during the first or second trimester .
In animal reproduction and development studies in normotensive animals , evidence of fetal malformations was noted when phenylephrine was administered during organogenesis via a 1 - hour infusion at 1 . 2 times the human daily dose ( HDD ) of 10 mg / 60 kg / day .
Decreased pup weights were noted in offspring of pregnant rats treated with 2 . 9 times the HDD [ See Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryofetal Risk Untreated hypotension associated with spinal anesthesia for Cesarean section is associated with an increase in maternal nausea and vomiting .
A sustained decrease in uterine blood flow due to maternal hypotension may result in fetal bradycardia and acidosis .
Data Human Data Published randomized controlled trials over several decades , which compared the use of phenylephrine injection to other similar agents in pregnant women during Cesarean section , have not identified adverse maternal or infant outcomes .
At recommended doses , phenylephrine does not appear to affect fetal heart rate or fetal heart rate variability to a significant degree .
There are no studies on the safety of phenylephrine injection exposure during the period of organogenesis , and therefore , it is not possible to draw any conclusions on the risk of birth defects following exposure to phenylephrine injection during pregnancy .
In addition , there are no data on the risk of miscarriage following fetal exposure to phenylephrine injection .
Animal Data No clear malformations or fetal toxicity were reported when normotensive pregnant rabbits were treated with phenylephrine via continuous intravenous infusion over 1 hour ( 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ; approximately equivalent to a HDD based on body surface area ) from Gestation Day 7 to 19 .
At this dose , which demonstrated no maternal toxicity , there was evidence of developmental delay ( altered ossification of sternebra ) .
In a non - GLP dose range - finding study in normotensive pregnant rabbits , fetal lethality and cranial , paw , and limb malformations were noted following treatment with 1 . 2 mg / kg / day of phenylephrine via continuous intravenous infusion over 1 hour ( 2 . 3 - times the HDD ) .
This dose was clearly maternally toxic ( increased mortality and significant body weight loss ) .
An increase in the incidence of limb malformation ( hyperextension of the forepaw ) coincident with high fetal mortality was noted in a single litter at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 2 - times the HDD ) in the absence of maternal toxicity .
No malformations or embryo - fetal toxicity were reported when normotensive pregnant rats were treated with up to 3 mg / kg / day phenylephrine via continuous intravenous infusion over 1 hour ( 2 . 9 - times the HDD ) from Gestation Day 6 to 17 .
This dose was associated with some maternal toxicity ( decreased food consumption and body weights ) .
Decreased pup weights were reported in a pre - and postnatal development toxicity study in which normotensive pregnant rats were administered phenylephrine via continuous intravenous infusion over 1 hour ( 0 . 3 , 1 . 0 , or 3 . 0 mg / kg / day ; 0 . 29 , 1 , or 2 . 9 times the HDD ) from Gestation Day 6 through Lactation Day 21 ) .
No adverse effects on growth and development ( learning and memory , sexual development , and fertility ) were noted in the offspring of pregnant rats at any dose tested .
Maternal toxicities ( mortality late in gestation and during lactation period , decreased food consumption and body weight ) occurred at 1 and 3 mg / kg / day of phenylephrine ( equivalent to and 2 . 9 times the HDD , respectively ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of phenylephrine hydrochloride injection or its metabolite in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for phenylephrine hydrochloride and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the phenylephrine hydrochloride or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of phenylephrine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment In patients with liver cirrhosis [ Child Pugh Class B and Class C ] , dose - response data indicate decreased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Start dosing in the recommended dose range but more phenylephrine may be needed in this population .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) , dose - response data indicate increased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Consider starting at the lower end of the recommended dose range , and adjusting dose based on the target blood pressure goal .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of phenylephrine hydrochloride can cause a rapid rise in blood pressure .
Symptoms of overdose include headache , vomiting , hypertension , reflex bradycardia , a sensation of fullness in the head , tingling of the extremities , and cardiac arrhythmias including ventricular extrasystoles and ventricular tachycardia .
11 DESCRIPTION Phenylephrine is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL is a clear , colorless , sterile , non - pyrogenic solution for intravenous use .
It must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus or continuous intravenous infusion .
The chemical name of phenylephrine hydrochloride is ( - ) - m - hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride and is chemically designated as C9H14ClNO2 with a molecular weight of 203 . 66 g / mol .
Its structural formula is depicted below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride is soluble in water and ethanol , and insoluble in chloroform and ethyl ether .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL is sensitive to light .
Each mL contains : phenylephrine hydrochloride 10 mg , sodium chloride 3 . 5 mg , sodium citrate dihydrate 4 mg , citric acid monohydrate 1 mg , and sodium metabisulfite 2 mg in water for injection .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid if necessary .
The pH range is 3 . 5 - 5 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an α - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Interaction of phenylephrine with α - 1 adrenergic receptors on vascular smooth muscle cells causes activation of the cells and results in vasoconstriction .
Following phenylephrine hydrochloride intravenous administration , increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures , mean arterial blood pressure , and total peripheral vascular resistance are observed .
The onset of blood pressure increase following an intravenous bolus phenylephrine hydrochloride administration is rapid , typically within minutes .
As blood pressure increases following intravenous administration , vagal activity also increases , resulting in reflex bradycardia .
Phenylephrine has activity on most vascular beds , including renal , pulmonary , and splanchnic arteries .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following an intravenous infusion of phenylephrine hydrochloride , the observed effective half - life was approximately 5 minutes .
The steady - state volume of distribution of approximately 340 L suggests a high distribution into organs and peripheral tissues .
The average total serum clearance is approximately 2100 mL / min .
The observed phenylephrine plasma terminal elimination half - life was 2 . 5 hours .
Phenylephrine is metabolized primarily by monoamine oxidase and sulfotransferase .
After intravenous administration of radiolabeled phenylephrine , approximately 80 % of the total dose was eliminated within first 12 h ; and approximately 86 % of the total dose was recovered in the urine within 48 h .
The excreted unchanged parent drug was 16 % of the total dose in the urine at 48 h post intravenous administration .
There are two major metabolites , with approximately 57 and 8 % of the total dose excreted as m - hydroxymandelic acid and sulfate conjugates , respectively .
The metabolites are considered not pharmacologically active .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Long - term animal studies that evaluated the carcinogenic potential of orally administered phenylephrine hydrochloride in F344 / N rats and B6C3F1 mice were completed by the National Toxicology Program using the dietary route of administration .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in mice administered approximately 270 mg / kg / day ( 131 times the human daily dose ( HDD ) of 10 mg / 60 kg / day based on body surface area ) or rats administered approximately 50 mg / kg / day ( 48 times HDD ) based on body surface area comparisons .
Mutagenesis : Phenylephrine hydrochloride tested negative in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( S . typhimurium strains TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 and TA1537 ) , the in vitro chromosomal aberrations assay , the in vitro sister chromatid exchange assay , and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Positive results were reported in only one of two replicates of the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Impairment of Fertility : Phenylephrine did not impair mating , fertility , or reproductive outcome in normotensive male rats treated with 3 mg / kg / day phenylephrine via continuous intravenous infusion over 1 hour ( 2 . 9 times the HDD ) for 28 days prior to mating and for a minimum of 63 days prior to sacrifice and female rats treated with the same dosing regimen for 14 days prior to mating and through Gestation Day 6 .
This dose was associated with increased mortality in both male and female rats and decreased body weight gain in treated males .
There were decreased caudal sperm density and increased abnormal sperm reported in males treated with 3 mg / kg / day phenylephrine ( 2 . 9 times the HDD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The evidence for the efficacy of phenylephrine hydrochloride is derived from studies of phenylephrine hydrochloride in the published literature .
The literature support includes 16 studies evaluating the use of intravenous phenylephrine to treat hypotension during anesthesia .
The 16 studies include 9 studies where phenylephrine was used in low - risk ( ASA 1 and 2 ) pregnant women undergoing neuraxial anesthesia during Cesarean delivery , 6 studies in non - obstetric surgery under general anesthesia , and 1 study in non - obstetric surgery under combined general and neuraxial anesthesia .
Phenylephrine has been shown to raise systolic and mean blood pressure when administered either as a bolus dose or by continuous infusion following the development of hypotension during anesthesia .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL is a clear , colorless , aqueous solution free from visible particles supplied as follows ; NDC No .
Strength How Supplied NDC 70069 - 801 - 25 10 mg / mL 1 mL vial ; for single use ( supplied in packages of 25 ) NDC 70069 - 802 - 10 50 mg / 5 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) 5 mL vial ; Pharmacy Bulk Package ( supplied in packages of 10 ) NDC 70069 - 803 - 01 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) 10 mL vial ; Pharmacy Bulk Package ( supplied as a single unit ) Vial stoppers are not manufactured with natural rubber latex .
Store phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection , 10 mg / mL at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Store in carton until time of use .
The 1 mL vials are for single use only ; the 5 and 10 mL vials are pharmacy bulk packages .
The diluted solution should not be held for more than 4 hours at room temperature or for more than 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Discard any unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION If applicable , inform patients , family member , or care giver that certain medical conditions and medications might influence how phenylephrine hydrochloride Injection works .
Manufactured By : Caplin Steriles Limited , Gummidipoondi - 601 201 , India .
Code : TN / Drugs / TN00003457 Manufactured for : Somerset Therapeutics , LLC Hollywood , FL 33024 Customer Care # 1 - 800 - 417 - 9175 June , 2021 13160947 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 1 mL Vial Label NDC 70069 - 801 - 01 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 10 mg / mL For Intravenous Use Must Be Diluted Discard unused portion 1 mL Single Dose Vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 1 mL Carton NDC 70069 - 801 - 25 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 10 mg / mL For Intravenous Use Must Be Diluted Discard unused portion Protect from light .
Store in carton until time of use 25x1 mL Single Dose Vials .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 5 mL Vial Label NDC 70069 - 802 - 01 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 50 mg / 5 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion Must Be Diluted 5 mL Vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 5 mL Carton NDC 70069 - 802 - 10 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 50 mg / 5 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion Must Be Diluted Protect from light .
Store in carton until time of use 10 x 5 mL Multiple Dose Vials .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 10 mL Vial Label NDC 70069 - 803 - 01 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 100 mg / 10 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion Must Be Diluted 10 mL Vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Injection 10 mL Carton NDC 70069 - 803 - 01 Rx Only Phenylephrine HCL Injection , USP 100 mg / 10 mL For Intravenous Use Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion Must Be Diluted Protect from light .
Store in carton until time of use .
10 mL Vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
