Nasacort Allergy 24 HR Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each spray ) Triamcinolone acetonide 55 mg ( glucocorticoid ) Purpose Allergy symptom reliever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • nasal congestion • runny nose • sneezing • itchy nose Warnings Do not use • in children under 2 years of age • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you • have had recent nose ulcers or nose surgery • have had a nose injury that has not healed • are using a steroid medicine for asthma , allergies or skin rash • have an eye infection • have or had glaucoma or cataracts When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • some symptoms may get better on the first day of treatment .
It may take up to one week of daily use to feel the most symptom relief .
• do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have , or come into contact with someone who has , chickenpox , measles or tuberculosis • you have or develop symptoms of an infection such as a persistent fever • you have any change in vision • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read insert ( inside package ) on how to : • get a new bottle ready ( primed ) before first use • prime bottle again if not used for more than 2 weeks • use the spray • clean the spray nozzle ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER adults and children 12 years of age and older • once daily , spray 2 times into each nostril while sniffing gently • once your allergy symptoms improve , reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day CHILDREN 2 TO UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year .
children 6 to under 12 years of age • an adult should supervise use • once daily , spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently • if allergy symptoms do not improve , increase to 2 sprays in each nostril per day .
Once allergy symptoms improve , reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day .
children 2 to under 6 years of age • an adult should supervise use • once daily , spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently children under 2 years of age • do not use • do not use more than directed • if you forget a dose , do not double the next dose • do not spray into eyes or mouth • if allergy symptoms do not improve after one week , stop using and talk to a doctor • do not use for the common cold • shake well before each use Other information • do not use if sealed package is torn or opened • keep package and insert .
They contain important information .
• store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide ( for pH adjustment ) , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , purified water Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 Triamcinolone Acetonide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
