1 INDICATIONS AND USAGEUROXATRAL is indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia .
UROXATRAL is not indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONThe recommended dosage is one 10 mg UROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) extended - release tablet once daily .
The extent of absorption of Uroxatral is 50 % lower under fasting conditions .
Therefore , Uroxatral should be taken immediately after the same meal each day .
The tablets should not be chewed or crushed .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHSUROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) extended - release tablet 10 mg is available as a round , three - layer tablet : one white layer between two yellow layers , debossed with X10 .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONSUROXATRAL is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Childs - Pugh categories B and C ) , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased in these patients .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
UROXATRAL is contraindicated for use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , and ritonavir , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
UROXATRAL is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to alfuzosin hydrochloride or any component of UROXATRAL tablets .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Postural HypotensionPostural hypotension with or without symptoms ( e . g . , dizziness ) may develop within a few hours following administration of UROXATRAL .
As with other alpha - blockers , there is a potential for syncope .
Patients should be warned of the possible occurrence of such events and should avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur .
There may be an increased risk of hypotension / postural hypotension and syncope when taking UROXATRAL concomitantly with anti - hypertensive medication and nitrates .
Care should be taken when UROXATRAL is administered to patients with symptomatic hypotension or patients who have had a hypotensive response to other medications .
5 . 2 Renal ImpairmentCaution should be exercised when UROXATRAL is administered in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hepatic ImpairmentUROXATRAL is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of UROXATRAL have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Pharmacodynamic Drug - Drug InteractionsUROXATRAL is a selective alpha - blocker and should not be used in combination with other alpha - blockers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the vasodilatory effects of alpha - blockers and inhibitors of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 - inhibitors ) , patients treated with alpha - blocker therapy should be hemodynamically stable before treatment with PDE5 - inhibitors is initiated .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Pharmacokinetic Drug - Drug InteractionsUROXATRAL is contraindicated for use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) since alfuzosin blood levels are increased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Prostatic CarcinomaCarcinoma of the prostate and benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) cause many of the same symptoms .
These two diseases frequently coexist .
Therefore , patients thought to have BPH should be examined prior to starting treatment with UROXATRAL to rule out the presence of carcinoma of the prostate .
5 . 7 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) IFIS has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on or previously treated with alpha - 1 blockers .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ' s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha - 1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
5 . 8 Coronary InsufficiencyIf symptoms of angina pectoris should appear or worsen , UROXATRAL should be discontinued .
5 . 9 Patients with Congenital or Acquired QT ProlongationUse with caution in patients with acquired or congenital QT prolongation or who are taking medications that prolong the QT interval [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 10 Laboratory Test InteractionsNo laboratory test interactions with UROXATRAL tablets are known .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Studies ExperienceBecause clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events has been ascertained from 3 placebo - controlled clinical trials involving 1 , 608 men where daily doses of 10 and 15 mg alfuzosin were evaluated .
In these 3 trials , 473 men received UROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) 10 mg extended - release tablets .
In these studies , 4 % of patients taking UROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) 10 mg extended - release tablets withdrew from the study due to adverse events , compared with 3 % in the placebo group .
Table 1 summarizes the treatment - emergent adverse events that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving UROXATRAL , and at an incidence numerically higher than that of the placebo group .
In general , the adverse events seen in long - term use were similar in type and frequency to the events described below for the 3 - month trials .
Table 1 — Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in ≥ 2 % of UROXATRAL - Treated Patients and More Frequently than with Placebo in 3 - Month Placebo - Controlled Clinical StudiesAdverse Event Placebo ( n = 678 ) UROXATRAL ( n = 473 ) Dizziness 19 ( 2 . 8 % ) 27 ( 5 . 7 % ) Upper respiratory tract infection 4 ( 0 . 6 % ) 14 ( 3 . 0 % ) Headache 12 ( 1 . 8 % ) 14 ( 3 . 0 % ) Fatigue 12 ( 1 . 8 % ) 13 ( 2 . 7 % ) The following adverse events , reported by between 1 % and 2 % of patients receiving UROXATRAL and occurring more frequently than with placebo , are listed alphabetically by body system and by decreasing frequency within body system : Body as a whole : pain Gastrointestinal system : abdominal pain , dyspepsia , constipation , nausea Reproductive system : impotence Respiratory system : bronchitis , sinusitis , pharyngitis Signs and Symptoms of Orthostasis in Clinical Studies : The adverse reactions related to orthostasis that occurred in the double - blind phase 3 studies with alfuzosin 10 mg are summarized in Table 2 .
Approximately 20 % to 30 % of patients in these studies were taking antihypertensive medication .
Table 2 — Number ( % ) of Patients with Symptoms Possibly Associated with Orthostasis in 3 - Month Placebo - Controlled Clinical StudiesSymptoms Placebo ( n = 678 ) UROXATRAL ( n = 473 ) Dizziness 19 ( 2 . 8 % ) 27 ( 5 . 7 % ) Hypotension or postural hypotension 0 2 ( 0 . 4 % ) Syncope 0 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) Testing for blood pressure changes or orthostatic hypotension was conducted in three controlled studies .
Decreased systolic blood pressure ( ≤ 90 mm Hg , with a decrease ≥ 20 mm Hg from baseline ) was observed in none of the 674 placebo patients and 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) of the 469 UROXATRAL patients .
Decreased diastolic blood pressure ( ≤ 50 mm Hg , with a decrease ≥ 15 mm Hg from baseline ) was observed in 3 ( 0 . 4 % ) of the placebo patients and in 4 ( 0 . 9 % ) of the UROXATRAL patients .
A positive orthostatic test ( decrease in systolic blood pressure of ≥ 20 mm Hg upon standing from the supine position ) was seen in 52 ( 7 . 7 % ) of placebo patients and in 31 ( 6 . 6 % ) of the UROXATRAL patients .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing ExperienceThe following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of UROXATRAL .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
General disorders : edema Cardiac disorders : tachycardia , chest pain , angina pectoris in patients with pre - existing coronary artery disease Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury ( including cases with jaundice leading to drug discontinuation ) Respiratory system disorders : rhinitis Reproductive system disorders : priapism Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash , pruritis , urticaria , angioedema Vascular disorders : flushing During cataract surgery , a variant of small pupil syndrome known as Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been reported in some patients on or previously treated with alpha - 1 blockers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 CYP3A4 InhibitorsUROXATRAL is contraindicated for use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , or ritonavir , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Alpha - blockersThe pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between UROXATRAL and other alpha - blockers have not been determined .
However , interactions may be expected , and UROXATRAL should NOT be used in combination with other alpha - blockers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Antihypertensive Medication and NitratesThere may be an increased risk of hypotension / postural hypotension and syncope when taking UROXATRAL concomitantly with anti - hypertensive medication and nitrates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 4 PDE5 InhibitorsAlpha - adrenergic blockers and PDE5 inhibitors are both vasodilators that can lower blood pressure .
Patients treated with alpha - blockers should be hemodynamically stable before treatment with PDE5 inhibitors initiation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 PregnancyPregnancy Category B . UROXATRAL is not indicated for use in women .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or embryotoxicity in rats at maternal ( oral gavage ) doses up to 250 mg / kg / day , corresponding to systemic exposure levels 1 , 200 - fold higher than in humans .
In rabbits , up to the dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the clinical dose by body surface area ) given orally ( via gavage ) , no evidence of fetal toxicity or teratogenicity was seen .
Gestation was slightly prolonged in rats with a maternal dose > 5 mg / kg / day ( oral gavage ) , which corresponds to systemic exposure levels ( based on AUC of unbound drug ) 12 times higher than human exposure levels , but there were no difficulties with parturition .
8 . 4 Pediatric UseUROXATRAL is not indicated for use in children .
8 . 5 Geriatric UseOf the total number of subjects in clinical studies of UROXATRAL , 48 % were 65 years of age and over , whereas 11 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 . 6 Renal ImpairmentSystemic exposure was increased by approximately 50 % in pharmacokinetic studies of patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In phase 3 studies , the safety profile of patients with mild ( n = 172 ) or moderate ( n = 56 ) renal impairment was similar to the patients with normal renal function in those studies .
Safety data are available in only a limited number of patients ( n = 6 ) with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min ; therefore , caution should be exercised when UROXATRAL is administered in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic ImpairmentThe pharmacokinetics of UROXATRAL have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment .
UROXATRAL is contraindicated for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGEShould overdose of UROXATRAL lead to hypotension , support of the cardiovascular system is of first importance .
Restoration of blood pressure and normalization of heart rate may be accomplished by keeping the patient in the supine position .
If this measure is inadequate , then the administration of intravenous fluids should be considered .
If necessary , vasopressors should then be used , and the renal function should be monitored and supported as needed .
Alfuzosin is 82 % to 90 % protein bound ; therefore , dialysis may not be of benefit .
11 DESCRIPTIONEach UROXATRAL extended - release tablet contains 10 mg alfuzosin hydrochloride as the active ingredient .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder that melts at approximately 240 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in dichloromethane .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride is ( R , S ) - N - [ 3 - [ ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) methylamino ] propyl ] tetrahydro - 2 - furancarboxamide hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of alfuzosin hydrochloride is C19H27N5O4 • HCl .
The molecular weight of alfuzosin hydrochloride is 425 . 9 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide ( NF ) , ethylcellulose ( NF ) , hydrogenated castor oil ( NF ) , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ( USP ) , magnesium stearate ( NF ) , mannitol ( USP ) , microcrystalline cellulose ( NF ) , povidone ( USP ) , and yellow ferric oxide ( NF ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of ActionAlfuzosin is a selective antagonist of post - synaptic alpha1 - adrenoreceptors , which are located in the prostate , bladder base , bladder neck , prostatic capsule , and prostatic urethra .
12 . 2 PharmacodynamicsThe symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) such as urinary frequency , nocturia , weak stream , hesitancy and incomplete emptying are related to two components , anatomical ( static ) and functional ( dynamic ) .
The static component is related to the prostate size .
Prostate size alone does not correlate with symptom severity .
The dynamic component is a function of the smooth muscle tone in the prostate and its capsule , the bladder neck , and the bladder base as well as the prostatic urethra .
The smooth muscle tone is regulated by alpha - adrenergic receptors .
Alfuzosin exhibits selectivity for alpha1 - adrenergic receptors in the lower urinary tract .
Blockade of these adrenoreceptors can cause smooth muscle in the bladder neck and prostate to relax , resulting in an improvement in urine flow and a reduction in symptoms of BPH .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of 10 mg and 40 mg alfuzosin on QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) , 4 - way crossover single dose study in 45 healthy white male subjects aged 19 to 45 years .
The QT interval was measured at the time of peak alfuzosin plasma concentrations .
The 40 mg dose of alfuzosin was chosen because this dose achieves higher blood levels than those achieved with the co - administration of UROXATRAL and ketoconazole 400 mg .
Table 3 summarizes the effect on uncorrected QT and mean corrected QT interval ( QTc ) with different methods of correction ( Fridericia , population - specific and subject - specific correction methods ) at the time of peak alfuzosin plasma concentrations .
No single one of these correction methodologies is known to be more valid .
The mean change of heart rate associated with a 10 mg dose of alfuzosin in this study was 5 . 2 beats / minute and 5 . 8 beats / minute with 40 mg alfuzosin .
The change in heart rate with moxifloxacin was 2 . 8 beats / minute .
Table 3 .
Mean QT and QTc changes in msec ( 95 % CI ) from baseline at Tmax ( relative to placebo ) with different methodologies to correct for effect of heart rate . Drug / Dose QT Fridericia method Population - specific method Subject - specific method Active control Alfuzosin 10 mg - 5 . 8 ( - 10 . 2 , - 1 . 4 ) 4 . 9 ( 0 . 9 , 8 . 8 ) 1 . 8 ( - 1 . 4 , 5 . 0 ) 1 . 8 ( - 1 . 3 , 5 . 0 ) Alfuzosin 40 mg - 4 . 2 ( - 8 . 5 , 0 . 2 ) 7 . 7 ( 1 . 9 , 13 . 5 ) 4 . 2 ( - 0 . 6 , 9 . 0 ) 4 . 3 ( - 0 . 5 , 9 . 2 ) Moxifloxacin 400 mg 6 . 9 ( 2 . 3 , 11 . 5 ) 12 . 7 ( 8 . 6 , 16 . 8 ) 11 . 0 ( 7 . 0 , 15 . 0 ) 11 . 1 ( 7 . 2 , 15 . 0 ) The QT effect appeared greater for 40 mg compared to 10 mg alfuzosin .
The effect of the highest alfuzosin dose ( four times the therapeutic dose ) studied did not appear as large as that of the active control moxifloxacin at its therapeutic dose .
This study , however , was not designed to make direct statistical comparisons between the drugs or the dose levels .
There has been no signal of Torsade de Pointes in the extensive post - marketing experience with alfuzosin outside the United States .
A separate post - marketing QT study evaluated the effect of the co - administration of 10 mg alfuzosin with a drug of similar QT effect size .
In this study , the mean placebo - subtracted QTcF increase of alfuzosin 10 mg alone was 1 . 9 msec ( upperbound 95 % CI , 5 . 5 msec ) .
The concomitant administration of the two drugs showed an increased QT effect when compared with either drug alone .
This QTcF increase [ 5 . 9 msec ( UB 95 % CI , 9 . 4 msec ) ] was not more than additive .
Although this study was not designed to make direct statistical comparisons between drugs , the QT increase with both drugs given together appeared to be lower than the QTcF increase seen with the positive control moxifloxacin 400 mg [ 10 . 2 msec ( UB 95 % CI , 13 . 8 msec ) ] .
The clinical impact of these QTc changes is unknown .
12 . 3 PharmacokineticsThe pharmacokinetics of UROXATRAL have been evaluated in adult healthy male volunteers after single and / or multiple administration with daily doses ranging from 7 . 5 mg to 30 mg , and in patients with BPH at doses from 7 . 5 mg to 15 mg .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of UROXATRAL 10 mg tablets under fed conditions is 49 % .
Following multiple dosing of 10 mg UROXATRAL under fed conditions , the time to maximum concentration is 8 hours .
Cmax and AUC0 – 24 are 13 . 6 ( SD = 5 . 6 ) ng / mL and 194 ( SD = 75 ) ng ∙ h / mL , respectively .
UROXATRAL exhibits linear kinetics following single and multiple dosing up to 30 mg .
Steady - state plasma levels are reached with the second dose of UROXATRAL administration .
Steady - state alfuzosin plasma concentrations are 1 . 2 - to 1 . 6 - fold higher than those observed after a single administration .
Effect of Food As illustrated in Figure 1 , the extent of absorption is 50 % lower under fasting conditions .
Therefore , UROXATRAL should be taken immediately following a meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 – Mean ( SEM ) Alfuzosin Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles after a Single Administration of UROXATRAL 10 mg tablets to 8 Healthy Middle - Aged Male Volunteers in Fed and Fasted States Distribution The volume of distribution following intravenous administration in healthy male middle - aged volunteers was 3 . 2 L / kg .
Results of in vitro studies indicate that alfuzosin is moderately bound to human plasma proteins ( 82 % to 90 % ) , with linear binding over a wide concentration range ( 5 to 5 , 000 ng / mL ) .
Metabolism Alfuzosin undergoes extensive metabolism by the liver , with only 11 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Alfuzosin is metabolized by three metabolic pathways : oxidation , O - demethylation , and N - dealkylation .
The metabolites are not pharmacologically active .
CYP3A4 is the principal hepatic enzyme isoform involved in its metabolism .
Excretion Following oral administration of 14 C - labeled alfuzosin solution , the recovery of radioactivity after 7 days ( expressed as a percentage of the administered dose ) was 69 % in feces and 24 % in urine .
Following oral administration of UROXATRAL 10 mg tablets , the apparent elimination half - life is 10 hours .
Specific Populations Elderly : In a pharmacokinetic assessment during phase 3 clinical studies in patients with BPH , there was no relationship between peak plasma concentrations of alfuzosin and age .
However , trough levels were positively correlated with age .
The concentrations in subjects ≥ 75 years of age were approximately 35 % greater than in those below 65 years of age .
Renal Impairment : The Pharmacokinetic profiles of UROXATRAL 10 mg tablets in subjects with normal renal function ( CLCR > 80 mL / min ) , mild impairment ( CLCR 60 to 80 mL / min ) , moderate impairment ( CLCR 30 to 59 mL / min ) , and severe impairment ( CLCR less than 30 mL / min ) were compared .
These clearances were calculated by the Cockcroft - Gault formula .
Relative to subjects with normal renal function , the mean Cmax and AUC values were increased by approximately 50 % in patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of UROXATRAL have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment .
In patients with moderate or severe hepatic insufficiency ( Child - Pugh categories B and C ) , the plasma apparent clearance ( CL / F ) was reduced to approximately one - third to one - fourth that observed in healthy subjects .
This reduction in clearance results in three to four - fold higher plasma concentrations of alfuzosin in these patients compared to healthy subjects .
Therefore , UROXATRAL is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug - Drug Interactions Metabolic Interactions CYP3A4 is the principal hepatic enzyme isoform involved in the metabolism of alfuzosin .
Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors Repeated oral administration of 400 mg / day of ketoconazole , a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , increased alfuzosin Cmax by 2 . 3 - fold and AUClast by 3 . 2 - fold , following a single 10 mg dose of alfuzosin .
In another study , repeated oral administration of a lower ( 200 mg / day ) dose of ketoconazole increased alfuzosin Cmax by 2 . 1 - fold and AUClast by 2 . 5 - fold , following a single 10 mg dose of alfusion .
Therefore , UROXATRAL is contraindicated for co - administration with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 because exposure is increased , ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , or ritonavir ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Diltiazem : Repeated co - administration of 240 mg / day of diltiazem , a moderately - potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , with 7 . 5 mg / day ( 2 . 5 mg three times daily ) alfuzosin ( equivalent to the exposure with UROXATRAL ) increased the Cmax and AUC0 – 24 of alfuzosin 1 . 5 - and 1 . 3 - fold , respectively .
Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC0 – 12 of diltiazem 1 . 4 - fold .
Although no changes in blood pressure were observed in this study , diltiazem is an antihypertensive medication and the combination of UROXATRAL and antihypertensive medications has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In human liver microsomes , at concentrations that are achieved at the therapeutic dose , alfuzosin did not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 or 3A4 isoenzymes .
In primary culture of human hepatocytes , alfuzosin did not induce CYP1A , 2A6 or 3A4 isoenzymes .
Other Interactions Warfarin : Multiple dose administration of an immediate release tablet formulation of alfuzosin 5 mg twice daily for six days to six healthy male volunteers did not affect the pharmacological response to a single 25 mg oral dose of warfarin .
Digoxin : Repeated co - administration of UROXATRAL 10 mg tablets and digoxin 0 . 25 mg / day for 7 days did not influence the steady - state pharmacokinetics of either drug .
Cimetidine : Repeated administration of 1 g / day cimetidine increased both alfuzosin Cmax and AUC values by 20 % .
Atenolol : Single administration of 100 mg atenolol with a single dose of 2 . 5 mg of an immediate release alfuzosin tablet in eight healthy young male volunteers increased alfuzosin Cmax and AUC values by 28 % and 21 % , respectively .
Alfuzosin increased atenolol Cmax and AUC values by 26 % and 14 % , respectively .
In this study , the combination of alfuzosin with atenolol caused significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Single administration of 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide did not modify the pharmacokinetic parameters of alfuzosin .
There was no evidence of pharmacodynamic interaction between alfuzosin and hydrochlorothiazide in the 8 patients in this study .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThere was no evidence of a drug - related increase in the incidence of tumors in mice following dietary administration of 100 mg / kg / day alfuzosin for 98 weeks ( 13 and 15 times the level of exposure to humans based on AUC of unbound drug ) in females and males , respectively .
The highest dose tested in female mice may not have constituted a maximally tolerated dose .
Likewise , there was no evidence of a drug - related increase in the incidence of tumors in rats following dietary administration of 100 mg / kg / day alfuzosin for 104 weeks ( 53 and 37 times the level of exposure to humans based on AUC of unbound drug ) in females and males , respectively .
Alfuzosin showed no evidence of mutagenic effect in the Ames and mouse lymphoma assays , and was free of any clastogenic effects in the Chinese hamster ovary cell and in vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
Alfuzosin treatment did not induce DNA repair in a human cell line .
There was no evidence of reproductive organ toxicity when male rats were given alfuzosin at daily oral ( gavage ) doses of up to 250 mg / kg / day for 26 weeks , which corresponds to levels of exposure several hundred times that in humans .
No impairment of fertility was observed following oral ( gavage ) administration to male rats at doses of up to 125 mg / kg / day for 70 days .
Estrous cycling was inhibited in rats and dogs at doses of 25 mg / kg and 20 mg / kg , respectively , corresponding to levels of systemic exposure ( based on AUC of unbound drug ) 12 - and 18 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans , although this did not result in impaired fertility in rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Three randomized placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel - arm , 12 - week studies were conducted with the 10 mg daily dose of alfuzosin .
In these three studies , 1 , 608 patients [ mean age 64 . 2 years , range 49 – 92 years ; Caucasian ( 96 . 1 % ) , Black ( 1 . 6 % ) , Asian ( 1 . 1 % ) , Other ( 1 . 2 % ) ] were randomized and 473 patients received UROXATRAL 10 mg daily .
Table 4 provides the results of the three studies that evaluated the 10 mg dose .
There were two primary efficacy variables in these three studies .
The International Prostate Symptom Score ( IPSS , or AUA Symptom Score ) consists of seven questions that assess the severity of both irritative ( frequency , urgency , nocturia ) and obstructive ( incomplete emptying , stopping and starting , weak stream , and pushing or straining ) symptoms , with possible scores ranging from 0 to 35 .
The second efficacy variable was peak urinary flow rate .
The peak flow rate was measured just prior to the next dose in study 2 and on average at 16 hours post - dosing in studies 1 and 3 .
There was a statistically significant reduction from baseline to last assessment ( Week 12 ) in the IPSS versus placebo in all three studies , indicating a reduction in symptom severity ( Table 5 and Figures 2 , 3 , and 4 ) .
Table 4 — Mean Change ( SD ) from Baseline to week 12 in International Prostate Symptom Score in Three Randomized , Controlled , Double Blind Studies Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 Symptom Score Placebo ( n = 167 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 170 ) Placebo ( n = 152 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 137 ) Placebo ( n = 150 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 151 ) Difference between baseline and week 12 .
Total symptom score Baseline 18 . 2 ( 6 . 4 ) 18 . 2 ( 6 . 3 ) 17 . 7 ( 4 . 1 ) 17 . 3 ( 3 . 5 ) 17 . 7 ( 5 . 0 ) 18 . 0 ( 5 . 4 ) Change - 1 . 6 ( 5 . 8 ) - 3 . 6 ( 4 . 8 ) - 4 . 9 ( 5 . 9 ) - 6 . 9 ( 4 . 9 ) - 4 . 6 ( 5 . 8 ) - 6 . 5 ( 5 . 2 ) p - value 0 . 001 0 . 002 0 . 007 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 — Mean Change from Baseline in Total Symptom Score : Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 — Mean Change from Baseline in Total Symptom Score : Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 — Mean Change from Baseline in Total Symptom Score : Study 3 Peak urinary flow rate was increased statistically significantly from baseline to last assessment ( Week 12 ) versus placebo in studies 1 and 2 ( Table 5 and Figures 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .
Table 5 — Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline to Week 12 in Peak Urine Flow Rate ( mL / sec ) in Three Randomized , Controlled , Double - Blind Studies Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 Placebo ( n = 167 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 170 ) Placebo ( n = 147 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 136 ) Placebo ( n = 150 ) UROXATRAL 10 mg ( n = 151 ) Difference between baseline and week 12 .
Mean Peak flow rate Baseline 10 . 2 ( 4 . 0 ) 9 . 9 ( 3 . 9 ) 9 . 2 ( 2 . 0 ) 9 . 4 ( 1 . 9 ) 9 . 3 ( 2 . 6 ) 9 . 5 ( 3 . 0 ) Change 0 . 2 ( 3 . 5 ) 1 . 7 ( 4 . 2 ) 1 . 4 ( 3 . 2 ) 2 . 3 ( 3 . 6 ) 0 . 9 ( 3 . 0 ) 1 . 5 ( 3 . 3 ) p - value 0 . 0004 0 . 03 0 . 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 — Mean Change from Baseline in Peak Urine Flow Rate ( mL / s ) : Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 — Mean Change from Baseline in Peak Urine Flow Rate ( mL / s ) : Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 — Mean Change from Baseline in Peak Urine Flow Rate ( mL / s ) : Study 3 Mean total IPSS decreased at the first scheduled observation at Day 28 and mean peak flow rate increased starting at the first scheduled observation at Day 14 in studies 2 and 3 and Day 28 in study 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING UROXATRAL is supplied as follows : Package NDC Number Bottles of 30 0024 - 4200 - 30 Bottles of 100 0024 - 4200 - 10 Hospital Unit Dose ( blister packs containing 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) 0024 - 4200 - 20 UROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) extended - release tablet 10 mg is available as a round , three - layer tablet : one white layer between two yellow layers , debossed with X10 .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Keep UROXATRAL out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATIONPatients should be told about the possible occurrence of symptoms related to postural hypotension , such as dizziness , when beginning UROXATRAL , and they should be cautioned about driving , operating machinery , or performing hazardous tasks during this period .
This is important for those with low blood pressure or who are taking antihypertensive medications or nitrates .
Patients should be instructed to tell their ophthalmologist about their use of UROXATRAL before cataract surgery or other procedures involving the eyes , even if the patient is no longer taking UROXATRAL .
UROXATRAL should be taken with food and with the same meal each day .
Patients should be advised not to crush or chew UROXATRAL tablets .
sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 © 2009 sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Patient Information UROXATRAL ® ( Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) Read the Patient Information that comes with UROXATRAL before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or your treatment .
You and your doctor should talk about all your medicines , including UROXATRAL , now and at your regular checkups .
What is the most important information I should know about UROXATRAL ?
UROXATRAL can cause : • a sudden drop in blood pressure , especially when you start treatment .
This may lead to fainting , dizziness , or lightheadedness .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do any dangerous activities until you know how UROXATRAL affects you .
This is especially important if you already have a problem with low blood pressure or take medicines to treat high blood pressure .
If you begin to feel dizzy or lightheaded , lie down with your legs and feet up , and if your symptoms do not improve call your doctor .
What is UROXATRAL ?
UROXATRAL is a prescription medicine that is called an " alpha - blocker " .
UROXATRAL is used in adult men to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) .
UROXATRAL may help to relax the muscles in the prostate and the bladder which may lessen the symptoms of BPH and improve urine flow .
Before prescribing UROXATRAL , your doctor may examine your prostate gland and do a blood test called a prostate specific antigen ( PSA ) test to check for prostate cancer .
Prostate cancer and BPH can cause the same symptoms .
Prostate cancer needs a different treatment .
UROXATRAL is not for use in women or children .
Some medicines called " alpha - blockers " are used to treat high blood pressure .
UROXATRAL has not been studied for the treatment of high blood pressure .
Who should not take UROXATRAL ?
Do not take UROXATRAL if you : • have liver problems • are taking antifungal drugs like ketoconazole or HIV drugs called protease inhibitors • are already taking an alpha - blocker for either high blood pressure or prostate problems • are a woman • are a child under the age of 18 • are allergic to UROXATRAL .
The active ingredient is alfuzosin hydrochloride .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in UROXATRAL .
Before taking UROXATRAL , tell your doctor : • if you have liver problems • if you have kidney problems • if you or any family members have a rare heart condition known as congenital prolongation of the QT interval .
• about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines may affect the way you respond or react to UROXATRAL .
• if you have had low blood pressure , especially after taking another medicine .
Signs of low blood pressure are fainting , dizziness , and lightheadedness .
• if you have a heart problem called angina ( pain in your chest , jaw , or arm ) .
What you need to know while taking UROXATRAL ( alfuzosin HCl ) tablets • If you have an eye surgery for cataract ( clouding of the eye ) planned , tell your ophthalmologist that you are using UROXATRAL or have previously been treated with an alpha - blocker .
How do I take UROXATRAL ?
• Take UROXATRAL exactly as your doctor prescribes it .
• Take one UROXATRAL tablet after the same meal each day .
UROXATRAL should be taken just after eating food .
Do not take it on an empty stomach .
• Swallow the UROXATRAL tablet whole .
Do not crush , split , or chew UROXATRAL tablets .
• If you take too much UROXATRAL call your local poison control center or emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of UROXATRAL ?
The most common side effects with UROXATRAL are : • dizziness • headache • tiredness Call your doctor if you get any side effect that bothers you .
These are not all the side effects of UROXATRAL .
For more information ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store UROXATRAL ?
Store UROXATRAL between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ( 15 ° C and 30 ° C ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
Keep UROXATRAL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about UROXATRAL : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use UROXATRAL for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give UROXATRAL to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about UROXATRAL .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about UROXATRAL that is written for health professionals .
You may also visit our website at www . UROXATRAL . com or call 1 - 800 - 446 - 6267 .
What are the ingredients of UROXATRAL ?
Active Ingredient : alfuzosin hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide ( NF ) , ethylcellulose ( NF ) , hydrogenated castor oil ( NF ) , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ( USP ) , magnesium stearate ( NF ) , mannitol ( USP ) , microcrystalline cellulose ( NF ) , povidone ( USP ) , and yellow ferric oxide ( NF ) .
sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 © 2009 sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC NDC 0024 - 4200 - 10 X - 010 Uroxatral ® alfuzosin HCl 10 mg Extended - Release Tablets 1 Bottle 100 Tablets Keep out of reach of children Rx only sanofi aventis UROXATRAL LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
