Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( anti - itch ) Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , bees wax , carbomer , ceteareth - 6 , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , coconut oil , corn starch , dimethicone , disodium EDTA , glycerin , isopropyl palmitate , methylparaben , mineral oil , propylene glycol , propylparaben , shea butter , sodium citrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , tocopheryl ( vitamin E ) acetate , white petrolatum , USP purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 DISTRIBUTED BY : Walmart Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton NDC 79903 - 092 - 01 equate ™ Compare to Cortisone • 10 ® Intensive Healing Formula active ingredient * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Hydrocortisone Cream 1 % Intensive Healing Formula Antipruritic ( Anti - Itch ) With Antioxidants Relieves Itch Fast • Rashes & Redness • Eczema & Psoriasis • Inflammation & Irritation • Dry , Itchy Skin Contains Healing Moisturizers Enriched With Vitamin E NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
