Rx only DESCRIPTION This preparation is designed solely for parenteral use only after addition of drugs that require dilution or must be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle prior to injection .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution of sodium chloride and water for injection .
Each mL contains sodium chloride 9 mg .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is supplied only in single - dose containers to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection .
Its chloride and sodium ion concentrations are approximately 0 . 154 mEq of each per milliliter and its calculated osmolality is 0 . 308 milliosmols per mL .
The solution may contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment , pH 5 . 3 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium chloride , USP occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl , and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
The ampul is a colorless sealed sterile glass container .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl – ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl – ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP when used only as an isotonic vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in neonates and very small infants .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
PRECAUTIONS General Consult the manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy PREGNANCY CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether sodium chloride injection containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium chloride injection containing additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Drug Interactions Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , or when combined in the same vehicle or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for entry and withdrawal from all containers .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal intact .
Do not reuse single - dose containers , discard unused portion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
OVERDOSAGE Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of carbohydrate , sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in neonates or very small infants .
In the event these should occur , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Use aseptic technique for entry and withdrawal from container .
This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , is supplied in the following : 10 mL ampuls packaged in 100 s ( NDC 0641 - 1512 - 36 ) Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] WEST - WARD PHARMACEUTICALS Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA November 2011 462 - 602 - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 308 mOsmol / mL 10 mL Ampul NDC 0641 - 1512 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 308 mOsmol / mL 100 x 10 mL Ampuls NDC 0641 - 1512 - 36 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
