Drug Facts Active Ingredient Levonorgestrel USP 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Indications Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) .
Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel .
Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting This package is not child resistant .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
Other Information • read the instructions , warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use .
• this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• tablet is enclosed in wallet seal .
Do not use if the wallet seal is broken .
• store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° C ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° C ) [ see USP Controlled Room temperature ] .
Inactive Ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and povidone .
Questions or comments ?
For more information call 1800 - 399 - 2561 or visit our website at www . birthcontrolhealth . com .
Fallback Solo ™ ( levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Dose .
What You Need to Know What is Fallback Solo ™ ?
Fallback Solo ™ is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What Fallback Solo is not .
Fallback Solo will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Fallback Solo will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use Fallback Solo ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use Fallback Solo within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
Fallback Solo is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method When not to use Fallback Solo ?
Fallback Solo should not be used : • as a regular birth control method , because it ' s not as effective as regular birth control .
• if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in Fallback Solo .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of Fallback Solo and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does Fallback Solo work ?
Fallback Solo is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
Fallback Solo contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that Fallback Solo may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from Fallback Solo ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take Fallback Solo , the better it works .
How effective is Fallback Solo ?
If Fallback Solo is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know Fallback Solo worked ?
You will know Fallback Solo has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• If you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• when used as directed , Fallback Solo is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about Fallback Solo ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number , 1800 - 399 - 2561 or visit our website at www . birthcontrolhealth . com .
Other Information Keep this and all medication out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the wallet seal is opened .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Active Ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and povidone .
Fallback Solo ™ is a trademark of Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Distributed By : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) - 454 775 INDIA Revised : September 18 , 2017 ID # : 253402 If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Fallback Solo ™ ( levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg NDC 68180 - 853 - 11 Wallet Label : 1 Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fallback Solo ™ ( levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg NDC 68180 - 853 - 13 Carton Label : 1 Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
