Active Ingredients ( in each teaspoon = 5 . 4 g ) Psyllium Powder 3 . 4 gms ( approximately ) Purpose Fiber Laxative / Fiber Supplement Uses Fiber Laxative • effective in treating occasional constipation and restoring regularity Fiber Supplement • daily fiber supplement • for lowering cholesterol to promote heart health .
Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that includes 7 grams of soluble fiber per day from psyllium powder , as in this product , may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol .
One Adult dose of this product has 2 . 4 gms of this soluble fiber .
Consult a doctor if you are considering use of this product as part of a chloesterol - lowering program .
Warnings Choking • Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention Allergy alert • The product may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting Stop use and ask a doctor if • constipation lasts more than 7 days • rectal bleeding occurs • These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , contact a doctor or a Poison Control Center right away Directions Mix this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
Taking this product with enough liquid may cause choking .
Do not take if you have difficulty in swallowing .
See choking warnings .
Stir briskly and drink promptly .
if mixture thickens , add more liquid and stir .
LAXATIVE USE DIETARY SUPPLEMENT FIBER USE Adults 12 years & older 1 rounded teaspoon ( 5 . 4 g ) in 8 oz .
of liquid at the first sign of irregularity .
Can be taken up to 3 times daily 1 rounded teaspoon ( 5 . 4 g ) in 8 oz .
of liquid 3 times daily .
Children 6 years to under 12 years 1 / 2 the adult dose in 8 oz .
of liquid , up to 3 times daily consult a doctor Children under 6 years consult a doctor consult a doctor • 1 .
Put one dose into an empty glass • 2 .
Mix this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
• 3 .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
See choking warining .
• 4 .
Stir briskly and drink immediately .
If mixture thickens , add more liquid and stir .
An additional glass of liquid is recommended .
Bulk forming fibers like psyllium may affect how well other medicines work .
If you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth , take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine .
As your body adjusts to increase fiber intake , you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating .
New Users : Your doctor can recommend the right dosage of this product to best meet your needs .
In general , start by taking one dose a day .
Gradually increase to three doses per day , if needed or recommeded by your doctor .
Other information • DO NOT USE THIS PRODUCT IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
• store at room temperature • keep tightly closed to protect from humidity • each teaspoon contains : potassium 30 mg ; sodium 5 mg Inactive Ingredients citric acid , and maltodextrin Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
