Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Isostearyl isostearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glyeryl stearate , Tribehenin , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Myristyl myristate , Rosa canina fruit oil , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Retinyl palmitate , Diospyros kaki calyx extract , Cholesterol , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Propylene glycol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Ceramide 3 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Ceramide 6 ll , Phytosphingosine , Tocopherol , Triethyl citrate , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ceramide 1 , CI77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI14700 ( Red 4 ) Boots Nottingham England Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . boots . com / no7 Description No7 Bag of Tricks This glamorous beauty bag has the complete anti - ageing skincare regime to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin : wrinkles are visibly reduced , skin appears lifted and noticeably firmer and skin tone is more even .
See younger looking skin in just 2 weeks .
No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven Triple Action Serum to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin : wrinkles are visbly reduced , skin appears lifted and noticeably firmer and skin tone is more even .
Made in the UK No7 Lift and Luminate Triple Action Night Cream Supercharge with technology from our clinically proven Triple Action Serum to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin .
With visible results from the first morning , this multi - tasking night cream nourishes and helps restore skin moisture whilst you sleep .
No7 Lift And Luminate Triple Action Eye Cream Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven Triple Action Serum to target the three key signs of ageing in older skin .
No7 Beautiful Skin Quick Thinking Wipes Specially created for when you are short of time , these gentle fragrance free wipes sweep away impurities and remove all traces of make - up , even waterproof mascara .
carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton image 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
