Drug Facts Active ingredient Lidocaine HCl 4 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of pain .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • ♦ Use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • ♦ Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut , irritated or swollen skin .
Do not use on puncture wounds .
• ♦ Do not bandage or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use or use with a medicated patch .
• ♦ Do not allow contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
• ♦ Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor if • ♦ condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • ♦ redness is present • ♦ irritation develops Flammable • ♦ keep away from fire or flame If pregnant or breast feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age , consult a doctor .
Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , alcohol denat . , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , aminomethyl propanol , C30 - 45 alkyl cetearyl dimethicone crosspolymer , caprylyl methicone , cetearyl alcohol , ceteth - 20 phosphate , dicetyl phosphate , dimethicone , disodium EDTA , ethylhexylglycerin , fragrance , glyceryl stearate , isohexadecane , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 60 , steareth - 21 , water .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 567 - 8600 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 73 mL Cylinder Carton meijer ® Compare to Aspercreme ® Active Ingredient * NDC 79481 - 0019 - 1 pain relieving liquid Maximum Strength with 4 % Lidocaine with Lavender Essential Oil Fast Acting Easy to Apply to Affected Area No - Mess Applicator 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 73 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
