WARNING Concurrent use of gallium nitrate with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides , amphotericin B ) may increase the risk for developing severe renal insufficiency in patients with cancer - related hypercalcemia .
If use of a potentially nephrotoxic drug is indicated during gallium nitrate therapy , gallium nitrate administration should be discontinued and it is recommended that hydration be continued for several days after administration of the potentially nephrotoxic drug .
Serum creatinine and urine output should be closely monitored during and subsequent to this period .
Ganite therapy should be discontinued if the serum creatinine level exceeds 2 . 5 mg / dL .
DESCRIPTION Gallium nitrate injection is a clear , colorless , odorless , sterile solution of gallium nitrate , a hydrated nitrate salt of the group IIIa element , gallium .
Gallium nitrate is formed by the reaction of elemental gallium with nitric acid , followed by crystallization of the drug from the solution .
The stable , nonahydrate , Ga ( N03 ) 3 • 9H2O is a white , slightly hygroscopic , crystalline powder of molecular weight 417 . 87 , that is readily soluble in water .
Each mL of Ganite ( gallium nitrate injection ) contains gallium nitrate 25 mg ( on an anhydrous basis ) and sodium citrate dihydrate 28 . 75 mg .
The solution may contain sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment to 6 . 0 - 7 . 0 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ganite exerts a hypocalcemic effect by inhibiting calcium resorption from bone , possibly by reducing increased bone turnover .
Although in vitro and animal studies have been performed to investigate the mechanism of action of gallium nitrate , the precise mechanism for inhibiting calcium resorption has not been determined .
No cytotoxic effects were observed on bone cells in drug - treated animals .
Pharmacokinetics Gallium nitrate was infused at a daily dose of 200 mg / m2 for 5 ( n = 2 ) or 7 ( n = 10 ) consecutive days to 12 cancer patients .
In most patients apparent steady - state is achieved by 24 to 48 hours .
The range of average steady - state plasma levels of gallium observed among 7 fully evaluable patients was between 1134 and 2399 ng / mL .
The average plasma clearance of gallium ( n = 7 ) following daily infusion of gallium nitrate at a dose of 200 mg / m2 for 5 or 7 days was 0 . 15 L / hr / kg ( range : 0 . 12 to 0 . 20 L / hr / kg ) .
In one patient who received daily infusion doses of 100 , 150 and 200 mg / m2 the apparent steady - state levels of gallium did not increase proportionally with an increase in dose .
Gallium nitrate is not metabolized either by the liver or the kidney and appears to be significantly excreted via the kidney .
Urinary excretion data for a dose of 200 mg / m2 has not been determined .
Cancer - Related Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia is a common problem in hospitalized patients with malignancy .
It may affect 10 - 20 % of patients with cancer .
Different types of malignancy seem to vary in their propensity to cause hypercalcemia .
A higher incidence of hypercalcemia has been observed in patients with non - small cell lung cancer , breast cancer , multiple myeloma , kidney cancer , and cancer of head and neck .
Hypercalcemia of malignancy seems to result from an imbalance between the net resorption of bone and urinary excretion of calcium .
Patients with extensive osteolytic bone metastases frequently develop hypercalcemia : this type of hypercalcemia is common with primary breast cancer .
Some of these patients have been reported to have increased renal tubular calcium resorption .
Breast cancer cells have been reported to produce several potential bone - resorbing factors which stimulate the local osteoclast activity .
Humoral hypercalcemia is common with the solid tumors of the lung , head and neck , kidney , and ovaries .
Systemic factors ( e . g . , PTH - rP ) produced either by the tumor or host cells have been implicated for the altered calcium fluxes between the extracellular fluid , the kidney , and the skeleton .
About 30 % of patients with myeloma develop hypercalcemia associated with extensive osteolytic lesions and impaired glomerular filtration .
Myeloma cells have been reported to produce local factors that stimulate adjacent osteoclasts .
Hypercalcemia may produce a spectrum of signs and symptoms including : anorexia , lethargy , fatigue , nausea , vomiting , constipation , dehydration , renal insufficiency , impaired mental status , coma and cardiac arrest .
A rapid rise in serum calcium may cause more severe symptoms for a given level of hypercalcemia .
Since calcium is bound to serum proteins , which may fluctuate in concentration as a response to changes in blood volume , changes in total serum calcium ( especially during rehydration ) may not accurately reflect changes in the concentration of free - ionized calcium .
In the absence of a direct measurement of free - ionized calcium , measurement of the serum albumin concentration and correction of the total serum calcium concentration may help in assessing the severity of hypercalcemia .
The patient ’ s acid - base status should also be taken into consideration while assessing the degree of hypercalcemia .
Mild or asymptomatic hypercalcemia may be treated with conservative measures ( i . e . , saline hydration , with or without diuretics ) .
The patient ’ s cardiovascular status should be taken into consideration in the use of saline .
In patients who have an underlying cancer type that may be sensitive to corticosteroids ( e . g . , hematologic cancers ) , the use or addition of corticosteroid therapy may be indicated .
Hypocalcemic Activity A randomized double - blind clinical study comparing Ganite with calcitonin was conducted in patients with a serum calcium concentration ( corrected for albumin ) ≥ 12 . 0 mg / dL following 2 days of hydration .
Ganite was given as a continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 200 mg / m2 / day for 5 days and calcitonin was given intramuscularly at a dose of 8 I . U . / kg every 6 hours for 5 days .
Elevated serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) was normalized in 75 % ( 18 of 24 ) of the patients receiving Ganite and in 27 % ( 7 of 26 ) of the patients receiving calcitonin ( p = 0 . 0016 ) .
The time - course of effect on serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) is summarized in the following table .
Change in Corrected Serum Calcium by Time from Initiation of TreatmentTime Period1 ( hours ) Mean Change in Serum Calcium2 ( mg / dL ) GANITE Calcitonin 1 Time after initiation of therapy in hours .
2 Change from baseline in serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) .
* Comparison between treatment groups ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
24 - 0 . 4 - 1 . 6 * 48 - 0 . 9 - 1 . 4 72 - 1 . 5 - 1 . 1 96 - 2 . 9 * - 1 . 1 120 - 3 . 3 * - 1 . 3 The median duration of normocalcemia / hypocalcemia was 7 . 5 days for patients treated with Ganite and 1 day for patients treated with calcitonin .
A total of 92 % of patients treated with Ganite had a decrease in serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL as compared to 54 % of the patients treated with calcitonin ( p = 0 . 004 ) .
An open - label , non - randomized study was conducted to examine a range of doses and dosing schedules of Ganite for control of cancer - related hypercalcemia .
The principal dosing regimens were 100 and 200 mg / m2 / day , administered as continuous intravenous infusions for 5 days .
Ganite , at a dose of 200 mg / m2 / day for 5 days was found to normalize elevated serum calcium levels ( corrected for albumin ) in 83 % of patients as compared to 50 % of patients receiving a dose of 100 mg / m2 / day for 5 days .
A decrease in serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL was observed in 83 % and 94 % of patients treated with Ganite at dosages of 100 and 200 mg / m2 / day for 5 days , respectively .
There were no significant differences in the proportion of patients responding to Ganite when considering either the presence or absence of bone metastasis , or whether the tumor histology was epidermoid or nonepidermoid .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ganite is indicated for the treatment of clearly symptomatic cancer - related hypercalcemia that has not responded to adequate hydration .
In general , patients with a serum calcium ( corrected for albumin ) < 12 mg / dL would not be expected to be symptomatic .
Mild or asymptomatic hypercalcemia may be treated with conservative measures ( i . e . , saline hydration , with or without diuretics ) .
In the treatment of cancer - related hypercalcemia , it is important first to establish adequate hydration , preferably with intravenous saline , in order to increase the renal excretion of calcium and correct dehydration caused by hypercalcemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ganite should not be administered to patients with severe renal impairment ( serum creatinine > 2 . 5 mg / dL ) .
WARNINGS ( See boxed WARNING . )
The hypercalcemic state in cancer patients is commonly associated with impaired renal function .
Abnormalities in renal function ( elevated BUN and / or serum creatinine ) have been observed in clinical trials with Ganite .
It is strongly recommended that serum creatinine be monitored during Ganite therapy .
Since patients with cancer - related hypercalcemia are frequently dehydrated , it is important that such patients be adequately hydrated with oral and / or intravenous fluids ( preferably saline ) and that a satisfactory urine output ( a urine output of 2 L / day is recommended ) be established before therapy with Ganite is started .
Adequate hydration should be maintained throughout the treatment period , with careful attention to avoid overhydration in patients with compromised cardiovascular status .
Diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia .
Ganite therapy should be discontinued if the serum creatinine level exceeds 2 . 5 mg / dL .
The use of Ganite in patients with marked renal insufficiency ( serum creatinine > 2 . 5 mg / dL ) has not been systematically examined .
If therapy is undertaken in patients with moderately impaired renal function ( serum creatinine 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 mg / dL ) , frequent monitoring of the patient ’ s renal status is recommended .
Treatment should be discontinued if the serum creatinine level exceeds 2 . 5 mg / dL .
Combined use of Ganite with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides , amphotericin B ) may increase the risk of developing renal insufficiency in patients with cancer - related hypercalcemia ( see boxed WARNING ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Asymptomatic or mild to moderate hypocalcemia ( 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 mg / dL , corrected for serum albumin ) occurred in approximately 38 % of patients treated with Ganite in the controlled clinical trial .
One patient exhibited a positive Chvostek ’ s sign .
If hypocalcemia occurs , Ganite therapy should be stopped and short - term calcium therapy may be necessary .
Laboratory Tests Renal function ( serum creatinine and BUN ) and serum calcium must be closely monitored during Ganite therapy .
In addition to baseline assessment , the suggested frequency of calcium and phosphorus determinations is daily and twice weekly , respectively .
Ganite should be discontinued if the serum creatinine exceeds 2 . 5 mg / dL .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of highly nephrotoxic drugs in combination with Ganite may increase the risk for development of renal insufficiency ( see WARNINGS ) .
Available information does not indicate any adverse interaction with diuretics such as furosemide .
A symptom complex of dyspnea ( associated with interstitial pneumonitis in some instances ) , mouth soreness , and asthenia has been reported in a small number of multiple myeloma patients receiving low dose ( 40 mg ) gallium nitrate subcutaneously in addition to oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone .
The serious nature of the underlying condition of these patients precludes a precise understanding of the relationship of these events to either gallium nitrate treatment alone or with cyclophosphamide .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of gallium nitrate .
Gallium nitrate is not mutagenic in standard tests ( i . e . , Ames test and chromosomal aberration studies on human lymphocytes ) .
Usage in PregnancyPregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with gallium nitrate .
It is also not known whether gallium nitrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Ganite should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether gallium nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from gallium nitrate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Ganite in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Kidney Adverse renal effects , as demonstrated by rising BUN and creatinine , have been reported in about 12 . 5 % of patients treated with Ganite .
In a controlled clinical trial of patients with cancer - related hypercalcemia , two patients receiving Ganite and one patient receiving calcitonin developed acute renal failure .
Due to the serious nature of the patients ’ underlying conditions , the relationship of these events to the drug was unclear .
Ganite should not be administered to patients with serum creatinine > 2 . 5 mg / dL ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Metabolic Hypocalcemia may occur after Ganite treatment ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Transient hypophosphatemia of mild - to - moderate degree may occur in up to 79 % of hypercalcemic patients following treatment with Ganite .
In a controlled clinical trial , 33 % of patients had at least 1 serum phosphorus measurement between 1 . 5 - 2 . 4 mg / dL , while 46 % of patients had at least 1 serum phosphorus value < 1 . 5 mg / dL .
Patients who develop hypophosphatemia may require oral phosphorus therapy .
Decreased serum bicarbonate , possibly secondary to mild respiratory alkalosis was reported in 40 - 50 % of cancer patients treated with Ganite .
The cause for this effect is not clear .
This effect has been asymptomatic and has not required specific treatment .
Hematologic The use of very high doses of gallium nitrate ( up to 1400 mg / m2 ) in treating patients for advanced cancer has been associated with anemia , and several patients have received red blood cell transfusions .
Due to the serious nature of the underlying illness , it is uncertain that the anemia was caused by gallium nitrate .
Blood Pressure A decrease in mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure was observed several days after treatment with gallium nitrate in a controlled clinical trial .
The decrease in blood pressure was asymptomatic and did not require specific treatment .
Visual and Auditory In cancer chemotherapy trials , a small proportion ( < 1 % ) of patients treated with multiple high doses of gallium nitrate combined with other investigational anticancer drugs , have developed acute optic neuritis .
While these patients were critically ill and had received multiple drugs , a reaction to high - dose gallium nitrate is possible .
Most patients had full recovery ; however , at least one case of permanent blindness has been reported .
One patient with cancer - related hypercalcemia was reported to develop decreased hearing following gallium nitrate administration .
Due to the patient ’ s underlying condition and concurrent therapies , the relationship of this event to gallium nitrate administration is unclear .
Tinnitus and partial loss of auditory acuity have been reported rarely ( < 1 % ) in patients who received high - dose gallium nitrate as anticancer treatment .
Miscellaneous Other clinical events reported in association with gallium nitrate treatment for cancer as well as cancer - related hypercalcemia include : nausea and / or vomiting , tachycardia , lethargy , confusion , dreams and hallucinations , diarrhea , constipation , lower extremity edema , hypothermia , fever , dyspnea , rales and rhonchi , anemia , leukopenia , paresthesia , skin rash , pleural effusion , and pulmonary infiltrates .
Due to the serious nature of the underlying condition of these patients , the relationship of these events to therapy with gallium nitrate is unknown .
A single case of encephalopathy followed rapidly by coma and death has been reported after treatment in a cancer chemotherapy trial with gallium nitrate 300 mg / m2 / day for 7 days .
Treatment with gallium nitrate other than as described in this labeling may be complicated by adverse events not listed .
OVERDOSAGE Rapid intravenous infusion of gallium nitrate or use of doses higher than recommended ( 200 mg / m2 ) may cause nausea and vomiting and a substantially increased risk of renal insufficiency .
In the event of overdosage , further drug administration should be discontinued , serum calcium should be monitored , and the patient should receive vigorous intravenous hydration , with or without diuretics , for 2 - 3 days .
During this time period , renal function and urinary output should be carefully monitored so that fluid intake and output are balanced .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual recommended dose of Ganite is 200 mg per square meter of body surface area ( 200 mg / m2 ) daily for 5 consecutive days .
In patients with mild hypercalcemia and few symptoms , a lower dosage of 100 mg / m2 / day for 5 days may be considered .
If serum calcium levels are lowered into the normal range in less than 5 days , treatment may be discontinued early .
The daily dose must be administered as an intravenous infusion over 24 hours .
The daily dose should be diluted , preferably in 1 , 000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection USP , for administration as an intravenous infusion over 24 hours .
Adequate hydration must be maintained throughout the treatment period , with careful attention to avoid overhydration in patients with compromised cardiovascular status .
Controlled studies have not been undertaken to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of retreatment with gallium nitrate .
When Ganite is added to either 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection USP , it is stable for 48 hours at room temperature ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) or for 7 days if stored under refrigeration ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Ganite ® ( gallium nitrate injection ) is supplied as a 5 - unit carton , NDC 66657 - 301 - 05 .
Each carton contains 5 single - dose , flip - top vials ( NDC 66657 - 301 - 01 ) each containing 500 mg of gallium nitrate ( 25 mg / mL ) in 20 mL .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Contains no preservative .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only Ganite ® is a trademark of Genta Incorporated .
Manufactured for : Genta Incorporated Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 1 - 888 - TO - GENTA Revised : October 2006 30105902 Principal Display Panel - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 66657 - 301 - 01 Ganite ® ( gallium nitrate injection ) 500 mg 25 mg / mL Sterile Solution • For Intravenous Use 20 mL Single - Use Vial Sterile , aqueous , preservative - free , buffered solution .
For parenteral administration via infusion .
Discard unused portion .
Dilute in an isotonic saline or dextrose solution .
Each mL contains : Gallium nitrate 25 mg ( on an anhydrous basis ) and Sodium citrate dihydrate ( 28 . 75 mg ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Genta Incorporated Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 1 - 888 - TO - GENTA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
