active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other skin protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approaching a souce of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use On damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• apply to all skin exposed to the sun • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation • reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun protction Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures incluing : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • cildren under 6 month of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , butyloctyl salicylate , triethanolamine , fragrance claims May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Oxybenzone & Octinoxate free disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 70 DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - MO - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed !
( 888 ) 309 - 9030 DISTRIBUTED BY OLD EAST MAIN CO .
100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL STUDIO SELECTION SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 70 Compare to Coppertone Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 70 • Water - resistant ( 80 minutes • Continuous spray from any angle SPF 70 Family Size Dermatologist - Tested Hypoallergenic NET WT 9 . 1 OZ ( 258 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
