[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefuroxime axetil tablet is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible bacteria : ( 1 ) • Pharyngitis / tonsillitis ( adults and pediatric patients ) ( 1 . 1 ) • Acute bacterial otitis media ( pediatric patients ) ( 1 . 2 ) • Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis ( adults and pediatric patients ) ( 1 . 3 ) • Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis ( adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older ) ( 1 . 4 ) • Uncomplicated skin and skin - structure infections ( adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older ) ( 1 . 5 ) • Uncomplicated urinary tract infections ( adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older ) ( 1 . 6 ) • Uncomplicated gonorrhea ( adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older ) ( 1 . 7 ) • Early Lyme disease ( adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older ) ( 1 . 8 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil and other antibacterial drugs , cefuroxime axetil should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
1 . 1 Pharyngitis / Tonsillitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( 13 years and older ) with mild - to - moderate pharyngitis / tonsillitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pyogenes .
Limitations of Use • The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil in the prevention of rheumatic fever was not established in clinical trials .
• The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil in the treatment of penicillin - resistant strains of Streptococcus pyogenes has not been demonstrated in clinical trials .
1 . 2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients ( who can swallow tablets whole ) with acute bacterial otitis media caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including β - lactamase – producing strains ) , Moraxella catarrhalis ( including β - lactamase – producing strains ) , or Streptococcus pyogenes .
1 . 3 Acute Bacterial Maxillary Sinusitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients ( 13 years and older ) with mild - to - moderate acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae ( non - β - lactamase – producing strains only ) .
Limitations of Use The effectiveness of Cefuroxime axetil for sinus infections caused by β - lactamase – producing Haemophilus influenzae or Moraxella catarrhalis in patients with acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis was not established due to insufficient numbers of these isolates in the clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 4 Acute Bacterial Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( aged 13 and older ) with mild - to - moderate acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( β - lactamase – negative strains ) , or Haemophilus parainfluenzae ( β - lactamase – negative strains ) .
1 . 5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin - Structure Infections Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( aged 13 and older ) with uncomplicated skin and skin - structure infections caused by susceptible strains of Staphylococcus aureus ( including β - lactamase – producing strains ) or Streptococcus pyogenes .
1 . 6 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( aged 13 and older ) with uncomplicated urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
1 . 7 Uncomplicated Gonorrhea Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( aged 13 and older ) with uncomplicated gonorrhea , urethral and endocervical , caused by penicillinase - producing and non - penicillinase – producing susceptible strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and uncomplicated gonorrhea , rectal , in females , caused by non - penicillinase – producing susceptible strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
1 . 8 Early Lyme Disease ( erythema migrans ) Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients ( aged 13 and older ) with early Lyme disease ( erythema migrans ) caused by susceptible strains of Borrelia burgdorferi .
1 . 10 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil and other antibacterial drugs , cefuroxime axetil should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Tablets and oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram - per - milligram basis .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer tablets with or without food .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the dosage guidelines .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage adjustment is required for patients with impaired renal function .
( 2 . 5 ) Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration ( Days ) Adults and Adolescents ( 13 years and older ) Pharyngitis / tonsillitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin - structure infections 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1 , 000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years ( who can swallow tablets whole ) Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Cefuroxime axetil tablets and cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram - per - milligram basis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the appropriate dosage guidelines [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets with or without food .
• Pediatric patients ( aged 13 years and older ) who cannot swallow the cefuroxime axetil tablets whole should receive cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension because the tablet has a strong , persistent bitter taste when crushed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage for Cefuroxime axetil Tablets Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the dosage guidelines table below with or without food .
Table 1 .
Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration ( Days ) Adults and Adolescents ( 13 years and older ) Pharyngitis / tonsillitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis ( mild to moderate ) 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 a Uncomplicated skin and skin - structure infections 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1 , 000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years ( who can swallow tablets whole ) b Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 a The safety and effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil administered for less than 10 days in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis have not been established .
b When crushed , the tablet has a strong , persistent bitter taste .
Therefore , patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole should receive the oral suspension .
2 . 5 Dosage in Patients with Impaired Renal Function A dosage interval adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL / min , as listed in Table 4 below , because cefuroxime is eliminated primarily by the kidney [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 4 .
Dosing in Adults with Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) Recommended Dosage ≥ 30 No dosage adjustment 10 to ˂ 30 Standard individual dose given every 24 hours ˂ 10 ( without hemodialysis ) Standard individual dose given every 48 hours Hemodialysis A single additional standard dose should be given at the end of each dialysis 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cefuroxime axetil tablets , USP 250 mg of cefuroxime ( as cefuroxime axetil ) , are blue , capsule - shaped , biconvex , film - coated tablets with “ 204 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets , USP 500 mg of cefuroxime ( as cefuroxime axetil ) , are blue , capsule - shaped , biconvex , film - coated tablets with 203 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
• Tablets : 250 mg and 500 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefuroxime axetil is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to cefuroxime axetil or to other β - lactam antibacterial drugs ( e . g . , penicillins and cephalosporins ) .
Known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to cefuroxime axetil or to other β - lactams ( e . g . , penicillins and cephalosporins ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions : In the event of a serious reaction , discontinue cefuroxime axetil and institute appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) : If diarrhea occurs , evaluate patients for CDAD .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylactic Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients on β - lactam antibacterials , including cefuroxime axetil [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of β - lactam hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity who have experienced severe reactions when treated with cephalosporins .
Cefuroxime axetil is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to cefuroxime axetil or other β - lactam antibacterial drugs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Before initiating therapy with cefuroxime axetil , inquire about previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , or other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue cefuroxime axetil and institute appropriate therapy .
5 . 2 Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefuroxime axetil , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth The possibility of superinfections with fungal or bacterial pathogens should be considered during therapy .
5 . 4 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing cefuroxime axetil either in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
5 . 6 Interference with Glucose Tests A false - positive result for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests , and a false - negative result for blood / plasma glucose may occur with ferricyanide tests in subjects receiving cefuroxime axetil [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious and otherwise important adverse reaction is described in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label : Anaphylactic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) for cefuroxime axetil tablets are diarrhea , nausea / vomiting , Jarisch - Herxheimer reaction , and vaginitis ( early Lyme disease ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Tablets Multiple - Dose Dosing Regimens with 7 to 10 Days ’ Duration : In multiple - dose clinical trials , 912 subjects were treated with cefuroxime axetil ( 125 to 500 mg twice daily ) .
It is noted that 125 mg twice daily is not an approved dosage .
Twenty ( 2 . 2 % ) subjects discontinued medication due to adverse reactions .
Seventeen ( 85 % ) of the 20 subjects who discontinued therapy did so because of gastrointestinal disturbances , including diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain .
The percentage of subjects treated with cefuroxime axetil who discontinued study drug because of adverse reactions was similar at daily doses of 1 , 000 , 500 , and 250 mg ( 2 . 3 % , 2 . 1 % , and 2 . 2 % , respectively ) .
However , the incidence of gastrointestinal adverse reactions increased with the higher recommended doses .
The adverse reactions in Table 5 are for subjects ( n = 912 ) treated with cefuroxime axetil in multiple - dose clinical trials .
Table 5 .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) after Multiple - Dose Regimens with Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Adverse Reaction Cefuroxime Axetil ( n = 912 ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Eosinophilia 1 % Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 4 % Nausea / Vomiting 3 % Investigations Transient elevation in AST 2 % Transient elevation in ALT 2 % Transient elevation in LDH 1 % The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1 % but greater than 0 . 1 % of subjects ( n = 912 ) treated with cefuroxime axetil in multiple - dose clinical trials .
Immune System Disorders : Hives , swollen tongue .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Anorexia .
Nervous System Disorders : Headache .
Cardiac Disorders : Chest pain .
Respiratory Disorders : Shortness of breath .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal pain , abdominal cramps , flatulence , indigestion , mouth ulcers .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Rash , itch .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Dysuria .
Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Vaginitis , vulvar itch .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Chills , sleepiness , thirst .
Investigations : Positive Coombs ’ test .
Early Lyme Disease with 20 - Day Regimen : Two multicenter trials assessed cefuroxime axetil tablets 500 mg twice daily for 20 days .
The most common drug - related adverse experiences were diarrhea ( 10 . 6 % ) , Jarisch - Herxheimer reaction ( 5 . 6 % ) , and vaginitis ( 5 . 4 % ) .
Other adverse experiences occurred with frequencies comparable to those reported with 7 to 10 days ’ dosing .
Single - Dose Regimen for Uncomplicated Gonorrhea : In clinical trials using a single 1 , 000 - mg dose of cefuroxime axetil , 1 , 061 subjects were treated for uncomplicated gonorrhea .
The adverse reactions in Table 6 were for subjects treated with a single dose of 1 , 000 mg cefuroxime axetil in U . S . clinical trials .
Table 6 .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) after Single - Dose Regimen with 1 , 000 - mg Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets for Uncomplicated Gonorrhea Adverse Reaction Cefuroxime axetil ( n = 1 , 061 ) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea / Vomiting 7 % Diarrhea 4 % The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1 % but greater than 0 . 1 % of subjects ( n = 1 , 061 ) treated with a single dose of cefuroxime axetil 1 , 000 mg for uncomplicated gonorrhea in U . S . clinical trials .
Infections and Infestations : Vaginal candidiasis .
Nervous System Disorders : Headache , dizziness , somnolence .
Cardiac Disorders : Tightness / pain in chest , tachycardia .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal pain , dyspepsia .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Erythema , rash , pruritus .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Muscle cramps , muscle stiffness , muscle spasm of neck , lockjaw - type reaction .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Bleeding / pain in urethra , kidney pain .
Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Vaginal itch , vaginal discharge .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of cefuroxime axetil .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Pseudomembranous colitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic impairment including hepatitis and cholestasis , jaundice .
Immune System Disorders Anaphylaxis , serum sickness - like reaction , acute myocardial ischemia with or without myocardial infarction may occur as part of an allergic reaction .
Investigations Increased prothrombin time .
Nervous System Disorders Seizure , encephalopathy .
Renal and Urinary Disorders Renal dysfunction .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Angioedema , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , urticaria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that reduce gastric acidity may lower the bioavailability of cefuroxime axetil .
( 7 . 1 ) • Coadministration with probenecid increases systemic exposure to cefuroxime axetil and is therefore not recommended .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Reduce Gastric Acidity Drugs that reduce gastric acidity may result in a lower bioavailability of cefuroxime axetil compared with administration in the fasting state .
Administration of drugs that reduce gastric acidity may negate the food effect of increased absorption of cefuroxime axetil when administered in the postprandial state .
Administer cefuroxime axetil at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after administration of short - acting antacids .
Histamine - 2 ( H2 ) antagonists and proton pump inhibitors should be avoided .
7 . 2 Probenecid Concomitant administration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil tablets increases serum concentrations of cefuroxime [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Coadministration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil is not recommended .
7 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions A false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests ( e . g . , Benedict ' s or Fehling ' s solution ) , but not with enzyme - based tests for glycosuria .
As a false - negative result may occur in the ferricyanide test , it is recommended that either the glucose oxidase or hexokinase method be used to determine blood / plasma glucose levels in patients receiving cefuroxime axetil .
The presence of cefuroxime does not interfere with the assay of serum and urine creatinine by the alkaline picrate method .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published epidemiologic studies , case series , and case reports over several decades with cephalosporin use , including cefuroxime axetil , in pregnant women have not established drug - associated risks of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
In studies in pregnant mice and rats administered oral cefuroxime axetil during organogenesis at 14 and 9 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on body surface area , respectively , there were no adverse developmental outcomes ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk : Maternal gonorrhea may be associated with preterm birth , low neonatal birth weight , chorioamnionitis , intrauterine growth restriction , small for gestational age , and premature rupture of membranes .
Perinatal transmission of gonorrhea to the offspring can result in infant blindness , joint infections , and bloodstream infections .
Data Human Data : While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from epidemiologic studies , case series , and case reports over several decades have not identified an association with cephalosporin use ( including cefuroxime axetil ) during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Available studies have methodologic limitations , including small sample size , retrospective data collection , and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data : Studies performed with oral cefuroxime axetil administered to pregnant mice during organogenesis ( Gestation Days 7 through 16 ) at doses up to 3 , 200 mg / kg / day ( 14 times the MRHD based on body surface area ) ; and in rats dosed during organogenesis and lactation ( Gestation Days 7 through 16 and Gestation Days 17 through Lactation Day 21 , respectively ) at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD based on body surface area ) have revealed no adverse developmental outcomes .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Based on several published case reports describing multiple lactating women who received cefuroxime via intravenous , intramuscular , and oral routes , cefuroxime is present in human milk .
The highest maternal milk concentration described occurred in lactating women 8 hours after an intramuscular administration of cefuroxime 750 mg .
Allowing for an infant milk consumption of 150 mL / kg / day , the estimated breastfed infant dose would be less than 1 % of the adult dose .
No data are available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for cefuroxime and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from cefuroxime or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil have been established for pediatric patients aged 3 months to 12 years for acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis based upon its approval in adults .
Use of cefuroxime axetil in pediatric patients is supported by pharmacokinetic and safety data in adults and pediatric patients , and by clinical and microbiological data from adequate and well - controlled trials of the treatment of acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis in adults and of acute otitis media with effusion in pediatric patients .
It is also supported by postmarketing adverse events surveillance .
[ See Indications and Usage ( 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects who received cefuroxime axetil in 20 clinical trials , 375 were aged 65 and older while 151 were aged 75 and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger adult subjects .
Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger adult patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Cefuroxime is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Reducing the dosage of cefuroxime axetil is recommended for adult patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of cephalosporins can cause cerebral irritation leading to convulsions or encephalopathy .
Serum levels of cefuroxime can be reduced by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Cefuroxime axetil tablets , USP contain cefuroxime as cefuroxime axetil .
Cefuroxime axetil is a semisynthetic , cephalosporin antibacterial drug for oral administration .
The chemical name of cefuroxime axetil ( 1 - ( acetyloxy ) ethyl ester of cefuroxime ) is ( RS ) - 1 hydroxyethyl ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - furyl ) glyoxyl - amido ] - 3 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 8 - oxo - 5 - thia - 1 azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] - oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylate , 72 - ( Z ) - ( O - methyl - oxime ) , 1 - acetate 3 - carbamate .
Its molecular formula is C20H22N4O10S , and it has a molecular weight of 510 . 48 .
Cefuroxime axetil is in the amorphous form and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cefuroxime axetil tablets , USP are film - coated and contain the equivalent of 250 or 500 mg of cefuroxime as cefuroxime axetil .
Cefuroxime axetil tablets , USP contain the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , sodium lauryl sulfate , colloidal silicon dioxide , calcium stearate , calcium carbonate , crospovidone , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , propylene glycol , FD & C blue no . 1 Aluminium lake .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cefuroxime axetil is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration , cefuroxime axetil is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and rapidly hydrolyzed by nonspecific esterases in the intestinal mucosa and blood to cefuroxime .
Serum pharmacokinetic parameters for cefuroxime following administration of cefuroxime axetil tablets to adults are shown in Table 8 .
Table 8 .
Pharmacokinetics of Cefuroxime Administered in the Postprandial State as Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets to Adultsa Doseb ( Cefuroxime Equivalent ) Peak Plasma Concentration ( mcg / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) AUC ( mcg • h / mL ) 125 mg 2 . 1 2 . 2 1 . 2 6 . 7 250 mg 4 . 1 2 . 5 1 . 2 12 . 9 500 mg 7 3 1 . 2 27 . 4 1 , 000 mg 13 . 6 2 . 5 1 . 3 50 aMean values of 12 healthy adult volunteers .
bDrug administered immediately after a meal .
Effect of Food : Absorption of the tablet is greater when taken after food ( absolute bioavailability increases from 37 % to 52 % ) .
Despite this difference in absorption , the clinical and bacteriologic responses of subjects were independent of food intake at the time of tablet administration in 2 trials where this was assessed .
All pharmacokinetic and clinical effectiveness and safety trials in pediatric subjects using the suspension formulation were conducted in the fed state .
No data are available on the absorption kinetics of the suspension formulation when administered to fasted pediatric subjects .
Lack of Bioequivalence : Oral suspension was not bioequivalent to tablets when tested in healthy adults .
The tablet and oral suspension formulations are NOT substitutable on a milligram - per - milligram basis .
The area under the curve for the suspension averaged 91 % of that for the tablet , and the peak plasma concentration for the suspension averaged 71 % of the peak plasma concentration of the tablets .
Therefore , the safety and effectiveness of both the tablet and oral suspension formulations were established in separate clinical trials .
Distribution Cefuroxime is distributed throughout the extracellular fluids .
Approximately 50 % of serum cefuroxime is bound to protein .
Metabolism The axetil moiety is metabolized to acetaldehyde and acetic acid .
Excretion Cefuroxime is excreted unchanged in the urine ; in adults , approximately 50 % of the administered dose is recovered in the urine within 12 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of cefuroxime in pediatric subjects have not been studied .
Until further data are available , the renal elimination of cefuroxime axetil established in adults should not be extrapolated to pediatric subjects .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment : In a trial of 28 adults with normal renal function or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , the elimination half - life was prolonged in relation to severity of renal impairment .
Prolongation of the dosage interval is recommended in adult patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Geriatric Patients : In a trial of 20 elderly subjects ( mean age = 83 . 9 years ) having a mean creatinine clearance of 34 . 9 mL / min , the mean serum elimination half - life was prolonged to 3 . 5 hours ; however , despite the lower elimination of cefuroxime in geriatric patients , dosage adjustment based on age is not necessary [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Concomitant administration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil tablets increases the cefuroxime area under the serum concentration versus time curve and maximum serum concentration by 50 % and 21 % , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cefuroxime axetil is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Cefuroxime axetil has activity in the presence of some β - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
Resistance Resistance to cefuroxime axetil is primarily through hydrolysis by β - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , decreased permeability , and the presence of bacterial efflux pumps .
Susceptibility to cefuroxime axetil will vary with geography and time ; local susceptibility data should be consulted , if available .
Beta - lactamase - negative , ampicillin - resistant ( BLNAR ) isolates of H . influenzae should be considered resistant to cefuroxime axetil .
Antimicrobial Activity Cefuroxime axetil has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : Aerobic Bacteria : Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes Gram - negative bacteria • Escherichia colia • Klebsiella pneumoniaea • Haemophilus influenzae • Haemophilus parainfluenzae • Moraxella catarrhalis • Neisseria gonorrhoeae a Most extended spectrum β - lactamase ( ESBL ) - producing and carbapenemase - producing isolates are resistant to cefuroxime axetil .
Spirochetes • Borrelia burgdorferi The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for cefuroxime against isolates of similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of cefuroxime axetil in treating clinical infections caused by these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic Bacteria : Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus epidermidis ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) • Staphylococcus saprophyticus ( methicillin - susceptible isolates only ) • Streptococcus agalactiae Gram - negative bacteria • Morganella morganii • Proteus inconstans • Proteus mirabilis • Providencia rettgeri Anaerobic Bacteria : Gram - positive bacteria • Peptococcus niger Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Although lifetime studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no mutagenic activity was found for cefuroxime axetil in a battery of bacterial mutation tests .
Positive results were obtained in an in vitro chromosome aberration assay ; however , negative results were found in an in vivo micronucleus test at doses up to 1 . 5 g / kg .
Fertility studies in rats ( males dosed for 70 days prior to and through mating ; females dosed 21 days prior to mating through lactation ) at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD based on body surface area ) have revealed no adverse effects on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Bacterial Maxillary Sinusitis One adequate and well - controlled trial was performed in subjects with acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis .
In this trial , each subject had a maxillary sinus aspirate collected by sinus puncture before treatment was initiated for presumptive acute bacterial sinusitis .
All subjects had radiographic and clinical evidence of acute maxillary sinusitis .
In the trial , the clinical effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil in treating acute maxillary sinusitis was comparable to an oral antimicrobial agent containing a specific β - lactamase inhibitor .
However , microbiology data demonstrated cefuroxime axetil to be effective in treating acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis due only to Streptococcus pneumoniae or non - β - lactamase – producing Haemophilus influenzae .
Insufficient numbers of β - lactamase – producing Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis isolates were obtained in this trial to adequately evaluate the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil in treating acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis due to these 2 organisms .
This trial randomized 317 adult subjects , 132 subjects in the U . S . and 185 subjects in South America .
Table 10 shows the results of the intent - to - treat analysis .
Table 10 .
Clinical Effectiveness of Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets in the Treatment of Acute Bacterial Maxillary Sinusitis U . S . Subjectsa South American Subjectsb Cefuro xime Axetil Tablets 250 mg Twice Daily ( n = 49 ) Control c ( n = 43 ) Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets 250 mg Twice Daily ( n = 49 ) Controlc ( n = 43 ) Clinical success ( cure + improvement ) 65 % 53 % 77 % 74 % Clinical cure 53 % 44 % 72 % 64 % Clinical improvement 12 % 9 % 5 % 10 % a 95 % confidence interval around the success difference [ - 0 . 08 , + 0 . 32 ] .
b 95 % confidence interval around the success difference [ - 0 . 10 , + 0 . 16 ] .
c Control was an antibacterial drug containing a β - lactamase inhibitor .
In this trial and in a supporting maxillary puncture trial , 15 evaluable subjects had non - β - lactamase – producing Haemophilus influenzae as the identified pathogen .
Of these , 67 % ( 10 / 15 ) had this pathogen eradicated .
Eighteen ( 18 ) evaluable subjects had Streptococcus pneumoniae as the identified pathogen .
Of these , 83 % ( 15 / 18 ) had this pathogen eradicated .
14 . 2 Early Lyme Disease Two adequate and well - controlled trials were performed in subjects with early Lyme disease .
All subjects presented with physician - documented erythema migrans , with or without systemic manifestations of infection .
Subjects were assessed at 1 month posttreatment for success in treating early Lyme disease ( Part I ) and at 1 year posttreatment for success in preventing the progression to the sequelae of late Lyme disease ( Part II ) .
A total of 355 adult subjects ( 181 treated with cefuroxime axetil and 174 treated with doxycycline ) were randomized in the 2 trials , with diagnosis of early Lyme disease confirmed in 79 % ( 281 / 355 ) .
The clinical diagnosis of early Lyme disease in these subjects was validated by 1 ) blinded expert reading of photographs , when available , of the pretreatment erythema migrans skin lesion , and 2 ) serologic confirmation ( using enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay [ ELISA ] and immunoblot assay [ “ Western ” blot ] ) of the presence of antibodies specific to Borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of Lyme disease .
The efficacy data in Table 11 are specific to this “ validated ” patient subset , while the safety data below reflect the entire patient population for the 2 trials .
Clinical data for evaluable subjects in the “ validated ” patient subset are shown in Table 11 .
Table 11 .
Clinical Effectiveness of Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Compared with Doxycycline in the Treatment of Early Lyme Disease Part I ( 1 Month after 20 Days of Treatment ) a Part II ( 1 Year after 20 Days of Treatment ) b Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily ( n = 125 ) Doxycycline 100 mg 3 Times Daily ( n = 108 ) Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily ( n = 105 c ) Doxycycline 100 mg 3 Times Daily ( n = 83 c ) Satisfactory clinical outcomed 91 % 93 % 84 % 87 % Clinical cure / success 72 % 73 % 73 % 73 % Clinical improvement 19 % 19 % 10 % 13 % a 95 % confidence interval around the satisfactory difference for Part I ( - 0 . 08 , + 0 . 05 ) .
b 95 % confidence interval around the satisfactory difference for Part II ( - 0 . 13 , + 0 . 07 ) .
c n ’ s include subjects assessed as unsatisfactory clinical outcomes ( failure + recurrence ) in Part I ( cefuroxime axetil - 11 [ 5 failure , 6 recurrence ] ; doxycycline - 8 [ 6 failure , 2 recurrence ] ) .
d Satisfactory clinical outcome includes cure + improvement ( Part I ) and success + improvement ( Part II ) .
Cefuroxime axetil and doxycycline were effective in prevention of the development of sequelae of late Lyme disease .
While the incidence of drug - related gastrointestinal adverse reactions was similar in the 2 treatment groups ( cefuroxime axetil - 13 % ; doxycycline - 11 % ) , the incidence of drug - related diarrhea was higher in the cefuroxime axetil arm versus the doxycycline arm ( 11 % versus 3 % , respectively ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cefuroxime axetil tablets , USP 250 mg of cefuroxime ( as cefuroxime axetil ) , are blue , capsule - shaped , biconvex , film - coated tablets with '' 204 " debossed on one side and plain on the other side as follows : 20 Tablets / Bottle NDC 63629 - 9446 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
Replace cap securely after each opening .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Allergic Reactions Inform patients that cefuroxime axetil is a cephalosporin that can cause allergic reactions in some individuals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Clostridioides difficile - Associated Diarrhea Inform patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials , and it usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken their last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , advise patients to contact their physician as soon as possible .
Crushing Tablets Instruct patients to swallow the tablet whole , without crushing the tablet .
Patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole should receive the oral suspension .
Drug Resistance Inform patients that antibacterial drugs , including cefuroxime axetil , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefuroxime axetil is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , inform patients that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefuroxime axetil or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : November , 2021 PT 0996 - 08 Cefuroxime Axetil Tabs 250 mg # 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
