Active ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % Purpose antimicrobial Uses : • for vaginal cleansing .
Kills germs .
Warnings : Wash and douche with water .
Do not Douche to prevent pregnancy .
During pregnancy .
If you have symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) or a sexually transmitted disease ( STD ) .
To self - treat or prevent a STD or PID .
After exposure to a STD Stop using this product stop using this product and consult a doctor if douching results in pain , soreness , swelling , redness , itching excessive dryness or irritation , or symptoms continue after 7 days .
These may indicate serious condition .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
External use only .
Do not use in eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : Rash and irritation and redness develops .
Discontinue use if any burning , itching , or irritation of the vagina occur during use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions : Insert the gel into the vagina when cleansing is desired , one unit ( 5 . 5 ml ) each time .
Please read the following instructions carefully before use .
1 .
Take off any plastic around the tube .
2 .
Remove the small plastic tip from the top of the applicator .
3 .
Gently insert the small end of the applicator deep into the vagina .
While in this position , squeeze the entire contents of the applicator to release the gel .
Remove the applicator and discard it in a waste container .
• Do not use this product if the package seal is broken .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask doctor .
Inactive ingredients : Carbomer , Glycerin , Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , Methylparaben , Sodium Hydroxide , Water Storage : Store at room temperature in a cool , dry place .
Other Information : An association has been reported between douching and pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) , ectopic pregnancy , and infertility .
It is not currently known whether douching is casually related to these conditions , but women should be aware of this association .
See a doctor right away if you have symptoms of PID or STD .
Expiration Date : Two years after printed date of manufacture .
Precautions : Discontinue use if any burning , itching , or irritation of the vagina occurs during use .
Wash and douche with water .
Guardian Gel TM is an effective douche when used according to the directions .
Distributed by : Eastern Century Pharmaceuticals , US ( ECP ) One Pierce Place , # 475 W , Itasca , IL 60143 USA Made in the USA Front Label Guardian Gel Vaginal Douche Gel with Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 18 fl oz .
5 . 5 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
