1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is indicated : Indocyanine Green for Injection USP a tricarbocyanine dye , is indicated : • • For visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion with OLYMPUS infrared compatible endoscopic imaging system ( 1 . 1 ) • • For visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile ducts with OLYMPUS infrared imaging endoscopic imaging system ( 1 . 2 ) • • For viewing intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area with OLYMPUS infrared compatible video microscopic imaging system ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion For visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion with OLYMPUS infrared compatible endoscopic imaging system 1 . 2 Visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile duct For visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile ducts with OLYMPUS infrared imaging endoscopic imaging system .
1 . 3 Viewing intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area For viewing intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area with OLYMPUS infrared compatible video microscopic imaging system 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion ( 2 . 1 ) Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
The usual doses of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 mL / kg ) – 0 . 3 mg / kg ( 0 . 12 mL / kg ) .
Immediately follow each ICG intravenous injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline immediately before IR imaging .
Multiple administrations can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
For visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile ducts ( 2 . 2 ) Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
The usual doses of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is 3 . 0 mg ( 1 . 2 mL ) .
Immediately follow each ICG intravenous injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline at least 30 minutes prior to IR imaging .
Multiple administrations can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
For viewing intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area ( 2 . 3 ) Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
The usual doses of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 mL / kg ) – 0 . 3 mg / kg ( 0 . 12 mL / kg ) .
Immediately follow each ICG intravenous injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline immediately before IR imaging Multiple administrations can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
2 . 1 Visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided for this product , and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
The patient should be weighed and the dosage for one administration should be calculated on the basis of 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 mL / kg ) - 0 . 3 mg / kg ( 0 . 12 mL / kg ) of body weight .
Multiple administrations can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
ICG should be administrated immediately before IR imaging .
Item Note Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP 25 mg vials of ICG powder Sterile Water for Injection ( for dissolving ICG ) 10 mL vial of sterile water Syringe ( for injecting sterile water into the ICG vial ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 10 mL Syringes ( for each administration ) Considering the administration volume , select the appropriate size Sterile normal saline ( for each saline flush ) Approximately 10 – 12 mL following each ICG administration Syringes ( for each saline flush ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 12 mL Prepare the syringes filled with the weight - scaled dose of ICG solution , and the syringes filled with 10 - 12 mL of normal saline for the tight bolus injection .
Immediately before IR imaging , administer the prepared dose of ICG solution intravenously .
Immediately follow each ICG injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline .
2 . 2 Visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile duct Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided for this product , and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
The dosage for one administration should be 3 . 0 mg ( 1 . 2 mL ) per patient .
Multiple administration can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
ICG should be administrated at least 30 minutes prior to IR imaging .
Item Note Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP 25 mg vials of ICG powder Sterile Water for Injection ( for dissolving ICG ) 10 mL vial of sterile water Syringe ( for injecting sterile water into the ICG vial ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 10 mL Syringes ( for each administration ) Considering the administration volume , select the appropriate size Sterile normal saline ( for each saline flush ) Approximately 10 – 12 mL following each ICG administration Syringes ( for each saline flush ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 12 mL Prepare the syringes filled with 3 . 0 mg ( 1 . 2 mL ) of ICG solution , and the syringes filled with 10 - 12 mL of normal saline for the tight bolus .
At least 30 minutes prior to IR imaging , administer the prepared dose of ICG solution intravenously .
Immediately follow each ICG injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline .
2 . 3 Viewing intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area Under sterile conditions , the Indocyanine Green for Injection USP powder should be dissolved with the 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided for this product , and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
The patient should be weighed and the dosage for one administration should be calculated on the basis of 0 . 1 mg / kg ( 0 . 04 mL / kg ) - 0 . 3 mg / kg ( 0 . 12 mL / kg ) of body weight .
Multiple administration can be performed , up to 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 8 mL / kg ) per patient .
ICG should be administrated immediately before IR imaging .
Item Note Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP 25 mg vials of ICG powder Sterile Water for Injection ( for dissolving ICG ) 10 mL vial of sterile water Syringe ( for injecting sterile water into the ICG vial ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 10 mL Syringes ( for each administration ) Considering the administration volume , select the appropriate size Sterile normal saline ( for each saline flush ) Approximately 10 – 12 mL following each ICG administration Syringes ( for each saline flush ) Use the syringe whose minimum volume is 12 mL Prepare the syringes filled with the weight - scaled dose of ICG solution , and the syringes filled with 10 - 12 mL of normal saline for the tight bolus .
Immediately before IR imaging , administer the prepared dose of ICG solution intravenously .
Immediately follow each ICG injection with a tight bolus injection of approximately 10 - 12 mL of normal saline .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indocyanine Green for Injection USP contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Deaths due to anaphylaxis have been reported following Indocyanine Green for Injection USP administration during cardiac catheterization .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis Deaths from anaphylaxis have been reported following Indocyanine Green for Injection USP administration during cardiac catheterization .
5 . 2 Drug Instability Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
However , the dye is stable in plasma and whole blood so that samples obtained in discontinuous sampling techniques may be read hours later .
Sterile techniques should be used in handling the dye solution as well as in the performance of the dilution curves .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
5 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactic or urticarial reactions have been reported in patients with or without history of allergy to iodides .
If such reactions occur , treat with the appropriate agents , e . g . , epinephrine , antihistamines , and corticosteroids .
Most common adverse reactions are anaphylactic or urticarial reactions .
These have been reported in patients with and without a history of allergy to iodides .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Diagnostic Green LLC at 1 - 844 - 424 - 3784 ( 1 - 844 - ICG - DRUG ) or e - mail : drugsafety @ diagnosticgreen . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Preparations containing sodium bisulfite including some heparin products reduce the absorption peak of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP in blood and , therefore , should not be used as an anticoagulant for the collection of samples for analysis .
Products containing sodium bisulfite reduce the absorption peak of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP in blood .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Indocyanine Green for Injection USP .
It is also not known whether Indocyanine Green for Injection USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of indocyanine green for visual assessment of blood vessels , blood flow and related tissue perfusion , for visual assessment of the major extrahepatic bile duct and for intra - operative blood flow in the cerebral area using this IR imaging application has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data available describing the signs , symptoms , or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage .
The LD50 after intravenous administration ranges between 60 and 80 mg / kg in mice , 50 and 70 mg / kg in rats and 50 and 80 mg / kg in rabbits .
Based on body surface area , these doses are 2 . 4 to 13 - fold the maximum recommended human ( MRHD ) dose of 2 mg / kg for indicator - dilution studies , 10 to 52 - fold the MRHD of 0 . 5 mg / kg for hepatic - function studies , and 7 to 39 - fold the MRHD of 0 . 67 mg / kg for ophthalmic angiography studies .
11 DESCRIPTION Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
It is packaged with Sterile Water for Injection , USP used to dissolve the indocyanine green .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is to be administered intravenously .
Indocyanine green is a water soluble , tricarbocyanine dye with a peak spectral absorption at 800 nm .
The chemical name for Indocyanine Green is 1 H - Benz [ e ] indolium , 2 - [ 7 - [ 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - 2 H - benz [ e ] indol - 2 - ylidene ] - 1 , 3 , 5 - heptatrienyl ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - , hydroxide , inner salt , sodium salt .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP has a pH of approximately 6 . 5 when reconstituted .
Each vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP contains 25 mg of indocyanine green as a sterile lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Indocyanine Green for Injection USP permits recording of the indicator - dilution curves for both diagnostic and research purposes independently of fluctuations in oxygen saturation .
Following intravenous injection , Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is rapidly bound to plasma protein , of which albumin is the principle carrier ( 95 % ) .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP undergoes no significant extrahepatic or enterohepatic circulation ; simultaneous arterial and venous blood estimations have shown negligible renal , peripheral , lung or cerebro - spinal uptake of the dye .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile .
After biliary obstruction , the dye appears in the hepatic lymph , independently of the bile , suggesting that the biliary mucosa is sufficiently intact to prevent diffusion of the dye , though allowing diffusion of bilirubin .
These characteristics make Indocyanine Green for Injection USP a helpful index of hepatic function .
The peak absorption and emission of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP lie in a region ( 800 to 850 nm ) where transmission of energy by the pigment epithelium is more efficient than in the region of visible light energy .
Indocyanine Green for Injection USP also has the property of being nearly 98 % bound to blood protein , and therefore , excessive dye extravasation does not take place in the highly fenestrated choroidal vasculature .
It is , therefore , useful in both absorption and fluorescence infrared angiography of the choroidal vasculature when using appropriate filters and film in a fundus camera .
The plasma fractional disappearance rate at the recommended 0 . 5 mg / kg dose has been reported to be significantly greater in women than in men , although there was no significant difference in the calculated value for clearance .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is supplied in a kit ( NDC 73624 - 424 - 02 ) containing six 25 mg Indocyanine Green for Injection USP vials and six 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP plastic vials : NDC 70100 - 424 - 01 Indocyanine Green for Injection USP vial .
25 mg fill in 25 mL vial .
NDC 63323 - 185 - 10 ( or NDC 0409 - 4887 - 17 ) Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 10 mL fill in 10 mL plastic vials .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Patheon Italia S . p . A . 20900 Monza ( MB ) , ITALY Distributed by : OLYMPUS AMERICA INC . 3500 Corporate Parkway P . O . Box 610 Center Valley , PA , 18034 - 0610 Sterile Water for Injection , USP is manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Grand Island , NY 14072 USA or Hospira , Inc .
Rocky Mount , NC 27804 USA 50652 06 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 73624 - 424 - 02 Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP For Intravenous Administration 25 mg / Vial Kit Rx Only - Sterile Distributed by : OLYMPUS AMERICA INC .
Back Panel NDC 73624 - 424 - 02 DIRECTIONS FOR USE ENCLOSED CAUTION : To ensure accurate readings , Indocyanine Green , USP dissolved in Sterile Water for Injection , USP must be used within 6 hours .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
USAGE : See package insert for dosage information .
Contents : Six Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP vials ( 25 mg each ) Six Sterile Water for Injection , USP Vials ( 10 mL each ) Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP For Intravenous Administration 25 mg / Vial Kit Rx Only - Sterile Right Panel Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP Distributed by : OLYMPUS AMERICA INC . 3500 Corporate Parkway , P . O . Box 610 , Center Valley , PA 1834 - 0610 , U . S . A . Manufactured by : Patheon Italia S . p . A . 20900 Monza ( Milano ) ITALY Sterile Water Manufactured by : Hospira , Inc .
Rocky Mount , NC 27804 or Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Grand Island , NY 14072 4 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70100 - 424 - 01 Indocyanine Green for Injection , USP 25 mg / Vial For Intravenous Administration After reconstitution , use within 6 hours .
Rx only Sterile Distributed by : Diagnostic Green LLC 50428 06 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - STERILE WATER VIAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL Single - dose Sterile Water for Injection , USP FOR DRUG DILUENT USE LOT ## - ### - AA EXP DMMMYYYY Rx only NDC 0409 - 4887 - 17 Contains no antimicrobial or other added substance .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Do not give intravenously unless rendered nearly isotonic .
Distributed by RL - 7603 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
