Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each film ) Nonoxynol - 9 , 28 % Purpose Vaginal contraceptive Use for the prevention of pregnancy Warnings • For Vaginal Use Only • Not for rectal ( anal ) use Sexually transmitted disease ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs and may increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected partner .
Do not use if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS .
If you do not know if you or your sex partner is infected , choose another form of birth control When using this product • you may get vaginal irritation ( burning , itching or a rash ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • you or your partner get burning , itching , a rash , or other irritation of the vagina or penis Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • before using this product , read the enclosed package insert for complete directions and information • be sure your fingers are dry before touching the film • insert one film and place as far into the vagina as possible against the cervix • insert VCF ® not less than 15 minutes and not more than 3 hours before intercourse • use one film before each act of intercourse Other information • When used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
• Use a latex condom without nonoxynol - 9 if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS , multiple sex partners , or other HIV risk factors .
• VCF ® is tested by independent laboratories for determination of sperm inactivating qualities , using the I . P . P . F . agreed protocol • Store at 58 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , polyvinyl alcohol , purified water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 879 - 2393 ( 9 - 5 E . S . T . ) Distributed By : Apothecus Pharmaceutical Corp . , Oyster Bay , NY 11771 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 x 1 Film Pouch Box VCF ® Vaginal Contraceptive Film ® FOR PREVENTION OF PREGNANCY • Begins to dissolve instantly • Hormone free • Kills sperm on contact Effective up to 3 hours !
9 SINGLE SEALED FILMS Contains the Spermicide Doctors Recommend Most [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
