Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each suppository ) Hard Fat 99 . 75 % Phenylephrine HCl 0 . 25 % Purposes Protectant Vasoconstrictor Uses • temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue • temporarily relieves the itching , burning and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids Warnings For rectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
• gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before insertion of suppository .
• detach one suppository from the strip • separate the two tabs of the white plastic wrap • with thumb and forefinger of each hand , grasp the tabs and peel downward , unwrapping the suppository • insert one suppository into the rectum adults and children 12 years and over : insert one suppository rectally up to 4 times daily children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) to avoid melting .
Inactive ingredients no additional inactive ingredient used Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 830 - 6075 TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SEALED WRAPPER AROUND SUPPOSITORIES IS BROKEN OR MISSING Manufactured and Marketed by : BLISS GVS PHARMA LTD .
102 , Hyde Park , Saki Vihar Road , Andheri ( E ) , Mumbai - 400 072 , INDIA Email : info @ blissgvs . com • www . blissgvs . com HEMORRHOIDAL SUPPOSITORIES NDC 72701 - 110 - 12 RELIEVES HEMORRHOIDAL PAIN AND BURNING Bliss GVS 12 Suppositories [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
