Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 11 / 2008 Contraindications ( 4 ) 11 / 2008 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ranexa is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
Ranexa may be used with beta - blockers , nitrates , calcium channel blockers , anti - platelet therapy , lipid - lowering therapy , ACE inhibitors , and angiotensin receptor blockers .
Ranexa is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily , based on clinical symptoms ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Initiate Ranexa dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily , as needed , based on clinical symptoms .
Take Ranexa with or without meals .
Swallow Ranexa tablets whole ; do not crush , break , or chew .
The maximum recommended daily dose of Ranexa is 1000 mg twice daily .
If a dose of Ranexa is missed , take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time ; do not double the next dose .
2 . 2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when Ranexa is taken in combination with certain other drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Limit the maximum dose of Ranexa to 500 mg twice daily in patients on diltiazem , verapamil , and other moderate CYP3A inhibitors .
Down - titrate Ranexa based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with P - gp inhibitors , such as cyclosporine .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ranexa is supplied as film - coated , oblong - shaped , extended - release tablets in the following strengths : • 500 mg tablets are light orange , with CVT500 on one side • 1000 mg tablets are pale yellow , with CVT1000 on one side Extended - release tablets : 500 mg , 1000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranexa is contraindicated in patients : • Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Taking inducers of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • With clinically significant hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] • Use with strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , nelfinavir ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) • Use with CYP3A inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , phenobarbital ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) • Use in patients with clinically significant hepatic impairment ( 4 , 8 . 6 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • QT interval prolongation : Can occur with ranolazine .
Little data available on high doses , long exposure , use with QT interval - prolonging drugs , or potassium channel variants causing prolonged QT interval .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 QT Interval Prolongation Ranolazine blocks IKr and prolongs the QTc interval in a dose - related manner .
Clinical experience in an acute coronary syndrome population did not show an increased risk of proarrhythmia or sudden death [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
However , there is little experience with high doses ( > 1000 mg twice daily ) or exposure , other QT - prolonging drugs , or potassium channel variants resulting in a long QT interval .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( > 4 % and more common than with placebo ) are dizziness , headache , constipation , nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gilead Sciences , Inc . , at 1 - 800 - GILEAD - 5 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 2 , 018 patients with chronic angina were treated with ranolazine in controlled clinical trials .
Of the patients treated with Ranexa , 1 , 026 were enrolled in three double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies ( CARISA , ERICA , MARISA ) of up to 12 weeks duration .
In addition , upon study completion , 1 , 251 patients received treatment with Ranexa in open - label , long - term studies ; 1 , 227 patients were exposed to Ranexa for more than 1 year , 613 patients for more than 2 years , 531 patients for more than 3 years , and 326 patients for more than 4 years .
At recommended doses , about 6 % of patients discontinued treatment with Ranexa because of an adverse event in controlled studies in angina patients compared to about 3 % on placebo .
The most common adverse events that led to discontinuation more frequently on Ranexa than placebo were dizziness ( 1 . 3 % versus 0 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 1 % versus 0 % ) , asthenia , constipation , and headache ( each about 0 . 5 % versus 0 % ) .
Doses above 1000 mg twice daily are poorly tolerated .
In controlled clinical trials of angina patients , the most frequently reported treatment - emergent adverse reactions ( > 4 % and more common on Ranexa than on placebo ) were dizziness ( 6 . 2 % ) , headache ( 5 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 4 . 5 % ) , and nausea ( 4 . 4 % ) .
Dizziness may be dose - related .
In open - label , long - term treatment studies , a similar adverse reaction profile was observed .
The following additional adverse reactions occurred at an incidence of 0 . 5 to 2 . 0 % in patients treated with Ranexa and were more frequent than the incidence observed in placebo - treated patients : Cardiac Disorders – bradycardia , palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders – tinnitus , vertigo Gastrointestinal Disorders – abdominal pain , dry mouth , vomiting General Disorders and Administrative Site Adverse Events – peripheral edema Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders – dyspnea Vascular Disorders – hypotension , orthostatic hypotension Other ( < 0 . 5 % ) but potentially medically important adverse reactions observed more frequently with Ranexa than placebo treatment in all controlled studies included : angioedema , renal failure , eosinophilia , blurred vision , confusional state , hematuria , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , tremor , pulmonary fibrosis , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and pancytopenia .
A large clinical trial in acute coronary syndrome patients was unsuccessful in demonstrating a benefit for Ranexa , but there was no apparent proarrhythmic effect in these high - risk patients [ see Clinical Trials ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Laboratory Abnormalities Ranexa produces small reductions in hemoglobin A1c .
Ranexa is not a treatment for diabetes .
Ranexa produces elevations of serum creatinine by 0 . 1 mg / dL , regardless of previous renal function .
The elevation has a rapid onset , shows no signs of progression during long - term therapy , is reversible after discontinuation of Ranexa , and is not accompanied by changes in BUN .
In healthy volunteers , Ranexa 1000 mg twice daily had no effect upon the glomerular filtration rate .
The elevated creatinine levels are likely due to a blockage of creatinine ' s tubular secretion by ranolazine or one of its metabolites .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A inhibitors : Do not use Ranexa with strong CYP3A inhibitors .
With moderate 3 A inhibitors ( e . g . , diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin ) , limit maximum dose of Ranexa to 500 mg twice daily .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A inducers : Do not use Ranexa with CYP3A inducers .
( 7 . 1 ) • P - gp inhibitors ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) : May need to lower Ranexa dose based on clinical response .
( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs transported by P - gp or metabolized by CYP2D6 ( e . g . , digoxin , tricyclic antidepressants ) : May need reduced doses of these drugs when used with Ranexa .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Ranolazine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and is a substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) .
CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use Ranexa with strong CYP3A inhibitors , including ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , nefazodone , nelfinavir , ritonavir , indinavir , and saquinavir .
Ketoconazole ( 200 mg twice daily ) increases average steady - state plasma concentrations of ranolazine 3 . 2 - fold [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Limit the dose of Ranexa to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors , including diltiazem , verapamil , aprepitant , erythromycin , fluconazole , and grapefruit juice or grapefruit - containing products .
Diltiazem ( 180 – 360 mg daily ) and verapamil ( 120 mg three times daily ) increase ranolazine steady - state plasma concentrations about 2 - fold [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Weak CYP3A inhibitors such as simvastatin ( 20 mg once daily ) and cimetidine ( 400 mg three times daily ) do not increase the exposure to ranolazine in healthy volunteers .
P - gp Inhibitors Down - titrate Ranexa based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with P - gp inhibitors , such as cyclosporine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
CYP3A and P - gp Inducers Avoid co - administration of Ranexa and CYP3A inducers such as rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentin , phenobarbital , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and St . John ' s wort .
Rifampin ( 600 mg once daily ) decreases the plasma concentration of ranolazine ( 1000 mg twice daily ) by approximately 95 % by induction of CYP3A and , probably , P - gp .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors The potent CYP2D6 inhibitor , paroxetine ( 20 mg once daily ) , increases ranolazine concentrations 1 . 2 - fold .
No dose adjustment of Ranexa is required in patients treated with CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Digoxin Digoxin ( 0 . 125 mg ) does not significantly alter ranolazine levels .
7 . 2 Effects of Ranolazine on Other Drugs In vitro studies indicate that ranolazine and its O - demethylated metabolite are weak inhibitors of CYP3A , moderate inhibitors of CYP2D6 and moderate P - gp inhibitors .
Ranolazine and its most abundant metabolites are not known to inhibit the metabolism of substrates for CYP 1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 2E1 in human liver microsomes , suggesting that ranolazine is unlikely to alter the pharmacokinetics of drugs metabolized by these enzymes .
Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A The plasma levels of simvastatin , a CYP3A substrate , and its active metabolite are each increased about 2 - fold in healthy subjects receiving simvastatin ( 80 mg once daily ) and Ranexa ( 1000 mg twice daily ) .
Dose adjustments of simvastatin are not required when Ranexa is co - administered with simvastatin .
The pharmacokinetics of diltiazem is not affected by ranolazine in healthy volunteers receiving diltiazem 60 mg three times daily and Ranexa 1000 mg twice daily .
Drugs Transported by P - gp Ranexa ( 1000 mg twice daily ) causes a 1 . 5 - fold elevation of digoxin plasma concentrations .
The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted .
Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Ranolazine or its metabolites partially inhibit CYP2D6 .
There are no studies of concomitant use of Ranexa with other drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 , such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics , but lower doses of CYP2D6 substrates may be required .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In animal studies , ranolazine at exposures 1 . 5 ( rabbit ) to 2 ( rat ) times the usual human exposure caused maternal toxicity and misshapen sternebrae and reduced ossification in offspring .
These doses in rats and rabbits were associated with an increased maternal mortality rate [ see Reproductive Toxicology Studies ( 13 . 3 ) ] .
There are no adequate well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ranexa should be used during pregnancy only when the potential benefit to the patient justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ranolazine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from ranolazine in nursing infants , decide whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue Ranexa , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the chronic angina patients treated with Ranexa in controlled studies , 496 ( 48 % ) were ≥ 65 years of age , and 114 ( 11 % ) were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in efficacy were observed between older and younger patients .
There were no differences in safety for patients ≥ 65 years compared to younger patients , but patients ≥ 75 years of age on ranolazine , compared to placebo , had a higher incidence of adverse events , serious adverse events , and drug discontinuations due to adverse events .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should usually start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease , or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Ranexa is contraindicated in patients with clinically significant hepatic impairment .
Plasma concentrations of ranolazine were increased by 30 % in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A ) and by 60 % in patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment .
This was not enough to account for the 3 - fold increase in QT prolongation seen in patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with varying degrees of renal impairment , ranolazine plasma levels increased up to 50 % .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine has not been assessed in patients on dialysis .
8 . 8 Use in Patients with Heart Failure Heart failure ( NYHA Class I to IV ) had no significant effect on ranolazine pharmacokinetics .
Ranexa had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure in patients with angina and heart failure NYHA Class I to IV .
No dose adjustment of Ranexa is required in patients with heart failure .
8 . 9 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus A population pharmacokinetic evaluation of data from angina patients and healthy subjects showed no effect of diabetes on ranolazine pharmacokinetics .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with diabetes .
Ranexa produces small reductions in HbA1c in patients with diabetes , the clinical significance of which is unknown .
Ranexa should not be considered a treatment for diabetes .
10 OVERDOSAGE High oral doses of ranolazine produce dose - related increases in dizziness , nausea , and vomiting .
High intravenous exposure also produces diplopia , paresthesia , confusion , and syncope .
In addition to general supportive measures , continuous ECG monitoring may be warranted in the event of overdose .
Since ranolazine is about 62 % bound to plasma proteins , hemodialysis is unlikely to be effective in clearing ranolazine .
11 DESCRIPTION Ranexa ( ranolazine ) is available as a film - coated , non - scored , extended - release tablet for oral administration .
Ranolazine is a racemic mixture , chemically described as 1 - piperazineacetamide , N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - 4 - [ 2 - hydroxy - 3 - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) propyl ] - , ( ± ) - .
It has an empirical formula of C24H33N3O4 , a molecular weight of 427 . 54 g / mole , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ranolazine is a white to off - white solid .
Ranolazine is soluble in dichloromethane and methanol ; sparingly soluble in tetrahydrofuran , ethanol , acetonitrile , and acetone ; slightly soluble in ethyl acetate , isopropanol , toluene , and ethyl ether ; and very slightly soluble in water .
Ranexa tablets contain 500 mg or 1000 mg of ranolazine and the following inactive ingredients : carnauba wax , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer ( Type C ) , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , and titanium dioxide .
Additional inactive ingredients for the 500 mg tablet include polysorbate 80 and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake ; additional inactive ingredients for the 1000 mg tablet include lactose monohydrate , triacetin , and Iron Oxide Yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ranolazine ' s antianginal effects has not been determined .
Ranolazine has anti - ischemic and antianginal effects that do not depend upon reductions in heart rate or blood pressure .
It does not affect the rate - pressure product , a measure of myocardial work , at maximal exercise .
Ranolazine at therapeutic levels can inhibit the cardiac late sodium current ( INa ) .
However , the relationship of this inhibition to angina symptoms is uncertain .
The QT prolongation effect of ranolazine on the surface electrocardiogram is the result of inhibition of IKr , which prolongs the ventricular action potential .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamic Effects Patients with chronic angina treated with Ranexa in controlled clinical studies had minimal changes in mean heart rate ( < 2 bpm ) and systolic blood pressure ( < 3 mm Hg ) .
Similar results were observed in subgroups of patients with CHF NYHA Class I or II , diabetes , or reactive airway disease , and in elderly patients .
Electrocardiographic Effects Dose and plasma concentration - related increases in the QTc interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , reductions in T wave amplitude , and , in some cases , notched T waves , have been observed in patients treated with Ranexa .
These effects are believed to be caused by ranolazine and not by its metabolites .
The relationship between the change in QTc and ranolazine plasma concentrations is linear , with a slope of about 2 . 6 msec / 1000 ng / mL , through exposures corresponding to doses several - fold higher than the maximum recommended dose of 1000 mg twice daily .
The variable blood levels attained after a given dose of ranolazine give a wide range of effects on QTc .
At Tmax following repeat dosing at 1000 mg twice daily , the mean change in QTc is about 6 msec , but in the 5 % of the population with the highest plasma concentrations , the prolongation of QTc is at least 15 msec .
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , the relationship between plasma level of ranolazine and QTc is much steeper [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Age , weight , gender , race , heart rate , congestive heart failure , diabetes , and renal impairment did not alter the slope of the QTc - concentration relationship of ranolazine .
No proarrhythmic effects were observed on 7 - day Holter recordings in 3 , 162 acute coronary syndrome patients treated with Ranexa .
There was a significantly lower incidence of arrhythmias ( ventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , supraventricular tachycardia , and new atrial fibrillation ) in patients treated with Ranexa ( 80 % ) versus placebo ( 87 % ) , including ventricular tachycardia ≥ 3 beats ( 52 % versus 61 % ) .
However , this difference in arrhythmias did not lead to a reduction in mortality , a reduction in arrhythmia hospitalization , or a reduction in arrhythmia symptoms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Ranolazine is extensively metabolized in the gut and liver and its absorption is highly variable .
For example , at a dose of 1000 mg twice daily , the mean steady - state Cmax was 2600 ng / mL with 95 % confidence limits of 400 and 6100 ng / mL .
The pharmacokinetics of the ( + ) R - and ( - ) S - enantiomers of ranolazine are similar in healthy volunteers .
The apparent terminal half - life of ranolazine is 7 hours .
Steady state is generally achieved within 3 days of twice - daily dosing with Ranexa .
At steady state over the dose range of 500 to 1000 mg twice daily , Cmax and AUC0 – τ increase slightly more than proportionally to dose , 2 . 2 - and 2 . 4 - fold , respectively .
With twice - daily dosing , the trough : peak ratio of the ranolazine plasma concentration is 0 . 3 to 0 . 6 .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine is unaffected by age , gender , or food .
Absorption and Distribution After oral administration of Ranexa , peak plasma concentrations of ranolazine are reached between 2 and 5 hours .
After oral administration of 14 C - ranolazine as a solution , 73 % of the dose is systemically available as ranolazine or metabolites .
The bioavailability of ranolazine from Ranexa tablets relative to that from a solution of ranolazine is 76 % .
Because ranolazine is a substrate of P - gp , inhibitors of P - gp may increase the absorption of ranolazine .
Food ( high - fat breakfast ) has no important effect on the Cmax and AUC of ranolazine .
Therefore , Ranexa may be taken without regard to meals .
Over the concentration range of 0 . 25 to 10 µg / mL , ranolazine is approximately 62 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Metabolism and Excretion Ranolazine is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and , to a lesser extent , by CYP2D6 .
Following a single oral dose of ranolazine solution , approximately 75 % of the dose is excreted in urine and 25 % in feces .
Ranolazine is metabolized rapidly and extensively in the liver and intestine ; less than 5 % is excreted unchanged in urine and feces .
The pharmacologic activity of the metabolites has not been well characterized .
After dosing to steady state with 500 mg to 1500 mg twice daily , the four most abundant metabolites in plasma have AUC values ranging from about 5 to 33 % that of ranolazine , and display apparent half - lives ranging from 6 to 22 hours .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ranolazine tested negative for genotoxic potential in the following assays : Ames bacterial mutation assay , Saccharomyces assay for mitotic gene conversion , chromosomal aberrations assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , mammalian CHO / HGPRT gene mutation assay , and mouse and rat bone marrow micronucleus assays .
There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential in mice or rats .
The highest oral doses used in the carcinogenicity studies were 150 mg / kg / day for 21 months in rats ( 900 mg / m2 / day ) and 50 mg / kg / day for 24 months in mice ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) .
These maximally tolerated doses are 0 . 8 and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 grams on a surface area basis .
A published study reported that ranolazine promoted tumor formation and progression to malignancy when given to transgenic APC ( min / + ) mice at a dose of 30 mg / kg twice daily [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
The clinical significance of this finding is unclear .
13 . 3 Reproductive Toxicology Studies Animal reproduction studies with ranolazine were conducted in rats and rabbits .
There was an increased incidence of misshapen sternebrae and reduced ossification of pelvic and cranial bones in fetuses of pregnant rats dosed at 400 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD on a surface area basis ) .
Reduced ossification of sternebrae was observed in fetuses of pregnant rabbits dosed at 150 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a surface area basis ) .
These doses in rats and rabbits were associated with an increased maternal mortality rate .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Chronic Stable Angina CARISA ( Combination Assessment of Ranolazine In Stable Angina ) was a study in 823 chronic angina patients randomized to receive 12 weeks of treatment with twice - daily Ranexa 750 mg , 1000 mg , or placebo , who also continued on daily doses of atenolol 50 mg , amlodipine 5 mg , or diltiazem CD 180 mg .
Sublingual nitrates were used in this study as needed .
In this trial , statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 ) increases in modified Bruce treadmill exercise duration and time to angina were observed for each Ranexa dose versus placebo , at both trough ( 12 hours after dosing ) and peak ( 4 hours after dosing ) plasma levels , with minimal effects on blood pressure and heart rate .
The changes versus placebo in exercise parameters are presented in Table 1 .
Exercise treadmill results showed no increase in effect on exercise at the 1000 mg dose compared to the 750 mg dose .
Table 1 Exercise Treadmill Results ( CARISA ) Mean Difference from Placebo ( sec ) Study CARISA ( N = 791 ) Ranexa Twice - daily Dose 750 mg 1000 mg Exercise Duration Trough 24 [ 1 ] 24 null Peak 34 [ 2 ] 26 null Time to Angina Trough 30 null 26 null Peak 38 null 38 null Time to 1 mm ST - Segment Depression Trough 20 21 Peak 41 null 35 null [ 1 ] p - value ≤ 0 . 05 [ 2 ] p - value ≤ 0 . 005 The effects of Ranexa on angina frequency and nitroglycerin use are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( CARISA ) Placebo Ranexa 750 mg [ 1 ] Ranexa 1000 mg null Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) N 258 272 261 Mean 3 . 3 2 . 5 2 . 1 p - value vs placebo — 0 . 006 < 0 . 001 Nitroglycerin Use ( doses / week ) N 252 262 244 Mean 3 . 1 2 . 1 1 . 8 p - value vs placebo — 0 . 016 < 0 . 001 [ 1 ] Twice daily Tolerance to Ranexa did not develop after 12 weeks of therapy .
Rebound increases in angina , as measured by exercise duration , have not been observed following abrupt discontinuation of Ranexa .
Ranexa has been evaluated in patients with chronic angina who remained symptomatic despite treatment with the maximum dose of an antianginal agent .
In the ERICA ( Efficacy of Ranolazine In Chronic Angina ) trial , 565 patients were randomized to receive an initial dose of Ranexa 500 mg twice daily or placebo for 1 week , followed by 6 weeks of treatment with Ranexa 1000 mg twice daily or placebo , in addition to concomitant treatment with amlodipine 10 mg once daily .
In addition , 45 % of the study population also received long - acting nitrates .
Sublingual nitrates were used as needed to treat angina episodes .
Results are shown in Table 3 .
Statistically significant decreases in angina attack frequency ( p = 0 . 028 ) and nitroglycerin use ( p = 0 . 014 ) were observed with Ranexa compared to placebo .
These treatment effects appeared consistent across age and use of long - acting nitrates .
Table 3 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( ERICA ) Placebo Ranexa [ 1 ] Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) N 281 277 Mean 4 . 3 3 . 3 Median 2 . 4 2 . 2 Nitroglycerin Use ( doses / week ) N 281 277 Mean 3 . 6 2 . 7 Median 1 . 7 1 . 3 [ 1 ] 1000 mg twice daily Gender Effects on angina frequency and exercise tolerance were considerably smaller in women than in men .
In CARISA , the improvement in Exercise Tolerance Test ( ETT ) in females was about 33 % of that in males at the 1000 mg twice - daily dose level .
In ERICA , where the primary endpoint was angina attack frequency , the mean reduction in weekly angina attacks was 0 . 3 for females and 1 . 3 for males .
Race There were insufficient numbers of non - Caucasian patients to allow for analyses of efficacy or safety by racial subgroup .
14 . 2 Lack of Benefit in Acute Coronary Syndrome In a large ( n = 6 , 560 ) placebo - controlled trial ( MERLIN - TIMI 36 ) in patients with acute coronary syndrome , there was no benefit shown on outcome measures .
However , the study is somewhat reassuring regarding proarrhythmic risks , as ventricular arrhythmias were less common on ranolazine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , and there was no difference between Ranexa and placebo in the risk of all - cause mortality ( relative risk ranolazine : placebo 0 . 99 with an upper 95 % confidence limit of 1 . 22 ) .
15 REFERENCES M . A . Suckow et al .
The anti - ischemia agent ranolazine promotes the development of intestinal tumors in APC ( min / + ) mice .
Cancer Letters 209 ( 2004 ) : 165 − 9 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ranexa is supplied as film - coated , oblong - shaped , extended - release tablets in the following strengths : • 500 mg tablets are light orange , with CVT500 on one side • 1000 mg tablets are pale yellow , with CVT1000 on one side Ranexa ( ranolazine ) extended - release tablets are available in : Strength NDC Unit - of - Use Bottle ( 60 Tablets ) 500 mg 61958 - 1001 - 1 Unit - of - Use Bottle ( 60 Tablets ) 1000 mg 61958 - 1002 - 1 Store Ranexa tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION To ensure safe and effective use of Ranexa , the following information and instructions should be communicated to the patient when appropriate .
Patients should be advised : • that Ranexa will not abate an acute angina episode • to inform their physician of any other medications when taken concurrently with Ranexa , including over - the - counter medications • that Ranexa may produce changes in the electrocardiogram ( QTc interval prolongation ) • to inform their physician of any personal or family history of QTc prolongation , congenital long QT syndrome , or if they are receiving drugs that prolong the QTc interval such as Class Ia ( e . g . , quinidine ) or Class III ( e . g . , dofetilide , sotalol , amiodarone ) antiarrhythmic agents , erythromycin , and certain antipsychotics ( e . g . , thioridazine , ziprasidone ) • that Ranexa should not be used in patients who are receiving drugs that are strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , nefazodone , ritonavir ) • that initiation of treatment with Ranexa should be avoided during administration of inducers of CYP3A ( e . g . , rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , phenytoin , St . John ' s wort ) • to inform their physician if they are receiving drugs that are moderate CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin ) or P - gp inhibitors ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) • that grapefruit juice or grapefruit products should be limited when taking Ranexa • that Ranexa should generally not be used in patients with clinically significant liver impairment • that doses of Ranexa higher than 1000 mg twice daily should not be used • that if a dose is missed , the usual dose should be taken at the next scheduled time .
The next dose should not be doubled • that Ranexa may be taken with or without meals • that Ranexa tablets should be swallowed whole and not crushed , broken , or chewed • to contact their physician if they experience fainting spells while taking Ranexa • that Ranexa may cause dizziness and lightheadedness ; therefore , patients should know how they react to this drug before they operate an automobile , or machinery , or engage in activities requiring mental alertness or coordination Manufactured for : Gilead Sciences Foster City , CA 94404 USA Ranexa is a registered U . S . trademark of Gilead , Palo Alto , Inc . © 2010 Gilead Sciences , Inc .
21 - 526 - GS - 008 JAN10 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Label NDC 61958 - 1001 - 1 60 tablets Ranexa ® ( ranolazine extended - release tablets ) 500 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mg Label NDC 61958 - 1002 - 1 60 tablets Ranexa ® ( ranolazine extended - release tablets ) 1000 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
