[ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR USE IN EYES .
DESCRIPTION Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is for topical use .
Each gram of Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) contains 7 . 70 mg of ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) in a water miscible suspension base consisting of benzyl alcohol ( 1 % as a preservative ) , cetyl alcohol , lactic acid , light mineral oil , myristyl alcohol , octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , and stearyl alcohol .
Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) contains a synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) .
The chemical name is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , 2 - aminoethanol salt .
The CAS Registry Number is 41621 - 49 - 2 .
Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) has a pH of 7 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ciclopirox is a broad - spectrum , antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic dermatophytes , yeasts , and Malassezia furfur .
Ciclopirox exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against isolates of Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , and Candida albicans .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with radiolabeled ciclopirox solution in polyethylene glycol 400 , showed an average of 1 . 3 % absorption of the dose when it was applied topically to 750 cm2 on the back followed by occlusion for 6 hours .
The biological half - life was 1 . 7 hours and excretion occurred via the kidney .
Two days after application only 0 . 01 % of the dose applied could be found in the urine .
Fecal excretion was negligible .
Autoradiographic studies with human cadaver skin showed that ciclopirox penetrates into the hair and through the epidermis and hair follicles into the sebaceous glands and dermis , while a portion of the drug remains in the stratum corneum .
In vitro penetration studies in frozen or fresh excised human cadaver and pig skin indicated that the penetration of ciclopirox olamine topical suspension , 0 . 77 % is equivalent to that of ciclopirox ( ciclopirox olamine ) cream 0 . 77 % .
Therapeutic equivalence of cream and suspension formulations was also indicated by studies of experimentally induced guinea pig and human trichophytosis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis ; cutaneous candidiasis ( moniliasis ) due to Candida albicans ; and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor due to Malassezia furfur .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS General - Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients - The patient should be told to : • 1 .
Use the medication for the full treatment time even though signs / symptoms may have improved and notify the physician if there is no improvement after four weeks .
• 2 .
Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , oozing ) indicative of possible sensitization .
• 3 .
Avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - A carcinogenicity study in female mice dosed cutaneously twice per week for 50 weeks followed by a 6 - month drug - free observation period prior to necropsy revealed no evidence of tumors at the application site .
The following in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox olamine : studies to evaluate gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella / Mammalian Microsome Assay ( negative ) and Yeast Saccharomyces Cerevisiae Assay ( negative ) and studies to evaluate chromosome aberrations in vivo in the Mouse Dominant Lethal Assay and in the Mouse Micronucleus Assay at 500 mg / kg ( negative ) .
The following battery of in vitro genotoxicity tests were conducted with ciclopirox : a chromosome aberration assay in V79 Chinese Hamster Cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; a gene mutation assay in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese Hamster Cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA Synthesis Assay in A549 Human Cells ( negative ) ) .
An in vitro Cell Transformation Assay in BALB / C3T3 Cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese Hamster Bone Marrow Cytogenetic Assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at 5000 mg / kg .
Pregnancy Category B - Reproduction studies have been performed in the mouse , rat , rabbit , and monkey , via various routes of administration , at doses 10 times or more the topical human dose and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ciclopirox .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trial with 89 patients using ciclopirox olamine topical suspension and 89 patients using the vehicle , the incidence of adverse reactions was low .
Those considered possibly related to treatment or occurring in more than one patient were pruritus , which occurred in two patients using ciclopirox olamine topical suspension and one patient using the suspension vehicle , and burning , which occurred in one patient using ciclopirox olamine topical suspension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently massage Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice daily , in the morning and evening .
Clinical improvement with relief of pruritus and other symptoms usually occurs within the first week of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after four weeks of treatment with Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Ciclopirox Olamine Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( Lotion ) is available as follows : 60 mL bottle ( NDC 63629 - 8627 - 1 ) Bottle space provided to allow for vigorous shaking before each use .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 • www . perrigo . com Rev 11 - 17 1F200 RC J5 Ciclopirox Olamine 0 . 77 % Suspension , # 60 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
