Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Scopolamine transdermal system is indicated in adults for the prevention of : • nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness .
• post - operative nausea and vomiting ( PONV ) associated with recovery from anesthesia and / or opiate analgesia and surgery .
Scopolamine transdermal system is an anticholinergic indicated in adults for the prevention of : • nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness .
( 1 ) • post - operative nausea and vomiting ( PONV ) associated with recovery from anesthesia and / or opiate analgesia and surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Application and Removal ( 2 . 1 ) : • Each scopolamine transdermal system delivers 1 mg of scopolamine over 3 days .
• Only wear one transdermal system at a time .
• Do not cut the transdermal system .
• Wash hands thoroughly after application .
• Upon removal , fold used transdermal system in half with sticky side together , and discard to prevent accidental contact or ingestion .
Recommended Dosage : • Motion Sickness : Apply one transdermal system to the hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before antiemetic effect is required for use up to 3 days .
If therapy for more than 3 days is required , remove the first transdermal system and apply a new transdermal system behind the other ear .
( 2 . 2 ) • PONV : For surgeries other than cesarean section , apply one transdermal system behind the ear the evening before surgery and remove 24 hours following surgery .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Application and Removal Instructions • Each scopolamine transdermal system is formulated to deliver in vivo approximately 1 mg of scopolamine over 3 days .
• Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• Do not cut the transdermal system .
• Apply the transdermal system to the skin in the postauricular area ( hairless area behind one ear ) .
• After the transdermal system is applied on the dry skin behind the ear , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry hands [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• If the transdermal system becomes displaced , discard the transdermal system , and apply a new transdermal system on the hairless area behind the other ear .
• Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
2 . 2 Recommended Adult Dosage Motion Sickness Apply one scopolamine transdermal system to the hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before the antiemetic effect is required – for use up to 3 days .
If therapy is required for longer than 3 days , remove the first transdermal system and apply a new scopolamine transdermal system behind the other ear .
PONV For surgeries other than cesarean section : Apply one scopolamine transdermal system the evening before scheduled surgery .
Remove the transdermal system 24 hours following surgery .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Transdermal system : a circular , flat , tan - colored transdermal system imprinted with “ Scopolamine 1 mg / 3 days ” Transdermal system : 1 mg / 3 days ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Scopolamine transdermal system is contraindicated in patients with : • angle closure glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• hypersensitivity to scopolamine or other belladonna alkaloids or to any ingredient or component in the formulation or delivery system .
Reactions have included rash generalized and erythema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
• Angle closure glaucoma .
( 4 , 6 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity to scopolamine or other belladonna alkaloids or to any ingredient or component of the formulation or delivery system .
( 4 , 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma : Monitor for increased intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma and adjust glaucoma therapy as needed .
Discontinue if signs or symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma develop .
( 5 . 1 ) • Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions : May cause psychiatric and cognitive effects , seizures and impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during treatment and during concomitant treatment with other drugs that are associated with similar psychiatric effects .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women : Avoid use in patients with severe preeclampsia .
( 5 . 3 ) • Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment in patients suspected of having intestinal obstruction ; patients with pyloric obstruction , urinary bladder neck obstruction or receiving other anticholinergic drugs .
Discontinue if patient develops difficulty in urination .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) • Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms : Anticholinergic symptoms may occur 24 hours or more after removal of the transdermal system .
( 5 . 5 ) • Blurred Vision : Avoid contact with the eyes .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 6 ) • Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI ) Skin Burns : Remove scopolamine transdermal system prior to MRI scan .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma The mydriatic effect of scopolamine may cause an increase in intraocular pressure resulting in acute angle closure glaucoma .
Monitor intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma and adjust glaucoma therapy during scopolamine transdermal system use , as needed .
Advise patients to immediately remove the transdermal system and contact their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
5 . 2 Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Scopolamine has been reported to exacerbate psychosis .
Other psychiatric reactions have also been reported , including acute toxic psychosis , agitation , speech disorder , hallucinations , paranoia , and delusions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system .
Also , monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during concomitant treatment with other drugs that are associated with similar psychiatric effects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Seizures Seizures and seizure - like activity have been reported in patients receiving scopolamine .
Weigh this potential risk against the benefits before prescribing scopolamine transdermal system to patients with a history of seizures , including those receiving anti - epileptic medication or who have risk factors that can lower the seizure threshold .
Cognitive Adverse Reactions Scopolamine can cause drowsiness , disorientation , and confusion .
Discontinue scopolamine transdermal system if signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment develop .
Elderly and pediatric patients may be more sensitive to the neurological and psychiatric effects of scopolamine transdermal system .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Scopolamine transdermal system is not approved for use in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Hazardous Activities Scopolamine transdermal system may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as driving a motor vehicle , operating machinery or participating in underwater sports .
Concomitant use of other drugs that cause central nervous system ( CNS ) adverse reactions ( e . g . , alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , and anxiolytics ) or have anticholinergic properties ( e . g . , other belladonna alkaloids , sedating antihistamines , meclizine , tricyclic antidepressants , and muscle relaxants ) may increase this effect [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients not to operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery or participate in underwater sports until they are reasonably certain that scopolamine transdermal system does not affect them adversely .
5 . 3 Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women Eclamptic seizures have been reported in pregnant women with severe preeclampsia soon after injection of intravenous and intramuscular scopolamine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Avoid use of scopolamine transdermal system in patients with severe preeclampsia .
5 . 4 Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders Scopolamine , due to its anticholinergic properties , can decrease gastrointestinal motility and cause urinary retention .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system in patients suspected of having intestinal obstruction , patients with pyloric obstruction or urinary bladder neck obstruction and patients receiving other anticholinergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Discontinue scopolamine transdermal system in patients who develop difficulty in urination .
5 . 5 Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms Discontinuation of scopolamine transdermal system , usually after several days of use , may result in withdrawal symptoms , such as disturbances of equilibrium , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , sweating , headache , mental confusion , muscle weakness , bradycardia and hypotension .
The onset of these symptoms is generally 24 hours or more after the transdermal system has been removed .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention if they experience severe symptoms .
5 . 6 Blurred Vision Scopolamine can cause temporary dilation of the pupils resulting in blurred vision if it comes in contact with the eyes .
Advise patients to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry their hands immediately after handling the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI ) Skin Burns Scopolamine transdermal system contains an aluminized membrane .
Skin burns have been reported at the application site in patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during an MRI scan .
Remove scopolamine transdermal system before undergoing an MRI .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are : • Motion Sickness ( > 15 % ) : dry mouth , drowsiness , blurred vision and dilation of the pupils .
( 6 . 1 ) • PONV ( ≥ 3 % ) : dry mouth , dizziness , somnolence , agitation , visual impairment , confusion , mydriasis and pharyngitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 748 - 1970 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Blurred Vision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • MRI Skin Burns [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Motion Sickness The most common adverse reaction ( approximately two thirds ) was dry mouth .
Less common adverse reactions , included drowsiness ( less than one sixth ) , blurred vision and dilation of the pupils .
PONV Common adverse reactions , occurring in at least 3 % of patients in PONV clinical trials are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Common Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] in Surgical Patients for the Prevention of PONV Scopolamine Transdermal System % ( N = 461 ) Placebo % ( N = 457 ) Dry mouth 29 16 Dizziness 12 7 Somnolence 8 4 Agitation 6 4 Visual Impairment 5 3 Confusion 4 3 Mydriasis 4 0 Pharyngitis 3 2 [ 1 ] occurring in at least 3 % of patients and at a rate higher than placebo 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of scopolamine transdermal system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Psychiatric disorders : acute psychosis including : hallucinations , disorientation , and paranoia Nervous system disorders : headache , amnesia , coordination abnormalities , speech disorder , disturbance in attention , restlessness General disorders and administration site conditions : application site burning Eye disorders : dry eyes , eye pruritus , angle closure glaucoma , amblyopia , eyelid irritation Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash generalized , skin irritation , erythema Renal and urinary disorders : dysuria Ear and labyrinth disorders : vertigo 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Causing Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions : Monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions ( drowsiness , dizziness or disorientations ) .
( 7 . 1 ) • Anticholinergic Drugs : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment in patients receiving other anticholinergic drugs .
( 7 . 2 ) • Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach : Monitor for increased or decreased therapeutic effect of the oral drug .
( 7 . 3 ) • Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test : Discontinue use of scopolamine transdermal system 10 days prior to testing .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Causing Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions The concurrent use of scopolamine transdermal system with other drugs that cause CNS adverse reactions of drowsiness , dizziness or disorientation ( e . g . , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , anxiolytics and alcohol ) or have anticholinergic properties ( e . g . , other belladonna alkaloids , sedating antihistamines , meclizine , tricyclic antidepressants , and muscle relaxants ) may potentiate the effects of scopolamine transdermal system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Either scopolamine transdermal system or the interacting drug should be chosen , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient .
If the interacting drug cannot be avoided , monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions .
7 . 2 Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant use of scopolamine with other drugs having anticholinergic properties may increase the risk of CNS adverse reactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] , intestinal obstruction and / or urinary retention .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system in patients receiving anticholinergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach Scopolamine transdermal system , as an anticholinergic , may delay gastric and upper gastrointestinal motility and , therefore , the rate of absorption of other orally administered drugs .
Monitor patients for modified therapeutic effect of concomitant orally administered drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
7 . 4 Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test Scopolamine will interfere with the gastric secretion test .
Discontinue scopolamine transdermal system 10 days prior to testing .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric Patients : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment due to increased risk of CNS adverse reactions .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 5 ) • Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment due to increased risk of CNS adverse reactions .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from observational studies and postmarketing reports with scopolamine use in pregnant women have not identified a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse fetal outcomes .
Avoid use of scopolamine transdermal system in pregnant women with severe preeclampsia because eclamptic seizures have been reported after exposure to scopolamine ( see Data ) .
In animal studies , there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects with intravenous administration of scopolamine hydrobromide revealed in rats .
Embryotoxicity was observed in rabbits at intravenous doses producing plasma levels approximately 100 times the levels achieved in humans using a transdermal system .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Eclamptic Seizures In published case reports , two pregnant patients with severe preeclampsia were administered intravenous and intramuscular scopolamine , respectively , and developed eclamptic seizures soon after scopolamine administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Animal Data In animal reproduction studies , when pregnant rats and rabbits received scopolamine hydrobromide by daily intravenous injection , no adverse effects were observed in rats .
An embryotoxic effect was observed in rabbits at doses producing plasma levels approximately 100 times the levels achieved in humans using a transdermal system .
Scopolamine administered parenterally to rats and rabbits at doses higher than the dose delivered by scopolamine transdermal system did not affect uterine contractions or increase the duration of labor .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Scopolamine is present in human milk .
There are no available data on the effects of scopolamine on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Because there have been no consistent reports of adverse events in breastfed infants over decades of use , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for scopolamine transdermal system and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from scopolamine transdermal system or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Pediatric patients are particularly susceptible to the adverse reactions of scopolamine ; including mydriasis , hallucinations , amblyopia and drug withdrawal syndrome .
Neurologic and psychiatric adverse reactions , such as hallucinations , amblyopia and mydriasis have also been reported .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of scopolamine transdermal system did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine if they respond differently from younger subjects .
In other clinical experience , elderly patients had an increased risk of neurologic and psychiatric adverse reactions , such as hallucinations , confusion , dizziness and drug withdrawal syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Consider more frequent monitoring for CNS adverse reactions during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system in elderly patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal or Hepatic Impairment Scopolamine transdermal system has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system in patients with renal or hepatic impairment because of the increased risk of CNS adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Class Scopolamine transdermal system contains scopolamine , which is not a controlled substance .
9 . 3 Dependence Termination of scopolamine transdermal system , usually after several days of use , may result in withdrawal symptoms such as disturbances of equilibrium , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , sweating , headache , mental confusion , muscle weakness , bradycardia and hypotension .
These withdrawal symptoms indicate that scopolamine , like other anticholinergic drugs , may produce physical dependence .
The onset of these symptoms , generally 24 hours or more after the transdermal system has been removed , can be severe and may require medical intervention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity include : lethargy , somnolence , coma , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , convulsion , visual disturbance , dry flushed skin , dry mouth , decreased bowel sounds , urinary retention , tachycardia , hypertension , and supraventricular arrhythmias .
These symptoms can be severe and may require medical intervention .
In cases of toxicity remove the scopolamine transdermal system .
Serious symptomatic cases of overdosage involving multiple transdermal system applications and / or ingestion may be managed by initially ensuring the patient has an adequate airway and supporting respiration and circulation .
This should be rapidly followed by removal of all transdermal systems from the skin and the mouth .
If there is evidence of transdermal system ingestion , endoscopic removal of swallowed transdermal systems , or administration of activated charcoal should be considered , as indicated by the clinical situation .
In any case where there is serious overdosage or signs of evolving acute toxicity , continuous monitoring of vital signs and ECG , establishment of intravenous access , and administration of oxygen are all recommended .
The signs and symptoms of overdose / toxicity due to scopolamine should be carefully distinguished from the occasionally observed syndrome of withdrawal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Although mental confusion and dizziness may be observed with both acute toxicity and withdrawal , other characteristic findings differ : tachyarrhythmias , dry skin , and decreased bowel sounds suggest anticholinergic toxicity , while bradycardia , headache , nausea and abdominal cramps , and sweating suggest post - removal withdrawal .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Scopolamine transdermal system is designed for continuous release of scopolamine following application to an area of intact skin on the head , behind the ear .
Each system contains 1 . 5 mg of scopolamine base .
Scopolamine is ( 9 - methyl - 3 - oxa - 9 - azatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . 02 , 4 ] nonan - 7 - yl ) 3 - hydroxy - 2 phenylpropanoate .
The empirical formula is C17H21NO4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Scopolamine has a molecular weight of 303 . 35 and a pKa of 7 . 55 - 7 . 81 .
The scopolamine transdermal system is a circular , 0 . 2 mm thick , 2 . 5 cm2 film with four layers .
Proceeding from the visible surface towards the surface attached to the skin , these layers are : ( 1 ) a backing membrane of tan - colored , aluminized , polyester film printed with brown ink ; ( 2 ) a drug adhesive layer of scopolamine , acrylic adhesive and isopropyl myristate ; ( 3 ) an ethylene vinyl acetate membrane that controls the rate of delivery of scopolamine from the system to the skin surface ; and ( 4 ) a drug adhesive layer of scopolamine , acrylic adhesive and isopropyl myristate .
A release liner of siliconized polyester , which covers the adhesive layer , is removed before the system is used .
The brown imprinting ink contains FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , polyamide resin , polytetrafluoroethylene , polyethylene wax , carbon black and quinacridone red pigment .
Cross section of the system : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Scopolamine , a belladonna alkaloid , is an anticholinergic .
Scopolamine acts : i ) as a competitive inhibitor at postganglionic muscarinic receptor sites of the parasympathetic nervous system , and ii ) on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
It has been suggested that scopolamine acts in the central nervous system ( CNS ) by blocking cholinergic transmission from the vestibular nuclei to higher centers in the CNS and from the reticular formation to the vomiting center .
Scopolamine can inhibit the secretion of saliva and sweat , decrease gastrointestinal secretions and motility , cause drowsiness , dilate the pupils , increase heart rate , and depress motor function .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The system is formulated to deliver approximately 1 mg of scopolamine to the systemic circulation over 3 days .
Absorption Following application to the skin behind the ear , circulating plasma concentrations are detected within 4 hours with peak concentrations being obtained , on average , within 24 hours .
The average plasma concentration produced is 87 pg / mL ( 0 . 28 nM ) for free scopolamine and 354 pg / mL for total scopolamine ( free + conjugates ) .
Following removal of the used transdermal system , there is some degree of continued systemic absorption of scopolamine bound in the skin layers .
Distribution The distribution of scopolamine is not well characterized .
It crosses the placenta and the blood brain barrier and may be reversibly bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism and Excretion Scopolamine is metabolized and conjugated with less than 5 % of the total dose appearing unchanged in the urine .
The enzymes responsible for metabolizing scopolamine are unknown .
The exact elimination pattern of scopolamine has not been determined .
Following transdermal system removal , plasma concentrations of scopolamine decline in a log linear fashion with an observed half - life of 9 . 5 hours .
Less than 10 % of the total dose is excreted in the urine as the parent drug and metabolites over 108 hours .
Drug Interaction Studies An in vitro study using human hepatocytes examined the induction of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 by scopolamine .
Scopolamine did not induce CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes at the concentrations up to 10 nM .
In an in vitro study using human liver microsomes which evaluated the inhibition of CYP1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 and 3A4 , scopolamine did not inhibit these cytochrome P450 isoenzymes at the concentrations up to 1 micromolar .
No in vivo drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of scopolamine .
The mutagenic potential of scopolamine has not been evaluated .
Fertility studies were performed in female rats and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to scopolamine hydrobromide administered by daily subcutaneous injection .
Maternal body weights were reduced in the highest - dose group ( plasma level approximately 500 times the level achieved in humans using a transdermal system ) .
However , fertility studies in male animals were not performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Motion Sickness In 195 adult subjects of different racial origins who participated in clinical efficacy studies at sea or in a controlled motion environment , there was a 75 % reduction in the incidence of motion - induced nausea and vomiting .
Scopolamine transdermal system was applied from 4 to 16 hours prior to the onset of motion in these studies .
14 . 2 Prevention of Post - Operative Nausea and Vomiting A clinical efficacy study evaluated 168 adult female patients undergoing gynecological surgery with anesthesia and opiate analgesia .
Patients received scopolamine transdermal system or placebo applied approximately 11 hours before anesthesia / opiate analgesia .
No retching / vomiting during the 24 - hour post - operative period was reported in 79 % of those treated with scopolamine transdermal system compared to 72 % of those receiving placebo .
When the need for additional antiemetic medication was assessed during the same period , there was no need for medication in 89 % of patients treated with scopolamine transdermal system as compared to 72 % of placebo - treated patients .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Scopolamine transdermal system 1 mg / 3 days is available as the following : Carton of 4 transdermal systems , packaged into individual foil pouches .
NDC 50742 - 505 - 04 Carton of 10 transdermal systems , packaged into individual foil pouches .
NDC 50742 - 505 - 10 Carton of 24 transdermal systems , packaged into individual foil pouches .
NDC 50742 - 505 - 24 Store at controlled room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Store pouch ( es ) in an upright position .
Do not bend or roll pouch ( es ) .
Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the transdermal system .
Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
PHARMACIST : Dispense a Medication Guide with each prescription .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Administration Instructions Counsel patients on how to apply and remove the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] : • Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• Do not cut the transdermal system .
• Apply the transdermal system to the skin in the postauricular ( hairless area behind one ear ) area .
• After the transdermal system is applied on the dry skin behind the ear , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry hands .
• If the transdermal system becomes displaced , discard the transdermal system , and apply a new transdermal system on the hairless area behind the other ear .
• Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
Patients with Open - Angle Glaucoma Advise patients with open - angle glaucoma to remove the scopolamine transdermal system immediately and contact their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma , including pain and reddening of the eyes , accompanied by dilated pupils , blurred vision and / or seeing halos around lights [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions • Advise patients that psychiatric adverse reactions may occur , especially in patients with a past psychiatric history or in those receiving other drugs also associated with psychiatric effects , and to report to their healthcare provider any new or worsening psychiatric symptoms .
• Advise patients to discontinue scopolamine transdermal system and contact a healthcare provider immediately if they experience a seizure .
• Advise patients , especially elderly patients , that cognitive impairment may occur during treatment with scopolamine transdermal system , especially in those receiving other drugs also associated with CNS effects , and to report to their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment such as hallucinations , confusion or dizziness .
• Inform patients not to operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery or participate in underwater sports until they are reasonably certain that scopolamine transdermal system does not affect them adversely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility and Urinary Retention Instruct patients to remove the transdermal system if they develop symptoms of intestinal obstruction ( abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting ) or any difficulties in urinating [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms Inform patients that if they remove the scopolamine transdermal system before treatment is complete , withdrawal symptoms may occur and to seek immediate medical care if they develop severe symptoms after removing scopolamine transdermal system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Blurred Vision Inform patients that temporary dilation of the pupils and blurred vision may occur if scopolamine transdermal system comes in contact with the eyes .
Instruct patients to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
MRI Skin Burns Instruct patients to remove the scopolamine transdermal system before undergoing an MRI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC Orlando , FL 32839 - 6408 Rev . 10 / 2022 PM1195 - 02 ingenus MEDICATION GUIDE Scopolamine ( skoe - POL - a - meen ) Transdermal System Read this Medication Guide before you start using scopolamine transdermal system and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is scopolamine transdermal system ?
Scopolamine transdermal system is a prescription medicine used for adults to help prevent : • nausea and vomiting from motion sickness • nausea and vomiting from anesthesia or taking opioid pain medicines after surgery It is not known if scopolamine transdermal system is safe or effective in children .
Who should not use scopolamine transdermal system ?
Do not use scopolamine transdermal system if you : • have an eye problem called angle closure glaucoma .
• are allergic to scopolamine , belladonna alkaloids or any of the ingredients in scopolamine transdermal system .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of the ingredients in scopolamine transdermal system .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure .
What should I tell my doctor before using scopolamine transdermal system ?
Before you use scopolamine transdermal system , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have glaucoma ( increased pressure in the eye ) .
• have a history of seizures or psychosis .
• have problems with your stomach or intestines .
• have trouble urinating .
• are scheduled to have a gastric secretion test .
• have liver or kidney problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if scopolamine can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Scopolamine can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use scopolamine transdermal system .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Scopolamine transdermal system may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how scopolamine transdermal system works .
Medicines that you take by mouth may not be absorbed well while you use scopolamine transdermal system .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • a sedative , hypnotic , opioid or anxiolytic ( medicines that make you sleepy ) • an antidepressant medicine • an anticholinergic medicine , such as an allergy or cold medicine , a medicine to treat bladder or bowel spasms , certain asthma medicines , or other medicines for motion sickness Ask your doctor if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use scopolamine transdermal system ?
• See the detailed Instructions for Use for information about how to use scopolamine transdermal system at the end of this Medication Guide .
• It is important that you apply scopolamine transdermal system exactly as your doctor tells you to .
• Your doctor may change your scopolamine transdermal system dose .
Do not change your scopolamine transdermal system dose without talking to your doctor .
• Wear only one scopolamine transdermal system at any time .
• If you use too much scopolamine transdermal system , call your doctor or Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while using scopolamine transdermal system ?
• You should not drink alcohol while using scopolamine transdermal system .
It can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
• You should not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how scopolamine transdermal system affects you .
• You should not use scopolamine transdermal system during a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Remove scopolamine transdermal system before undergoing an MRI .
It can cause your skin to burn .
• You should be careful if you use scopolamine transdermal system while you participate in watersports because you may feel lost or confused ( disoriented ) .
• Limit contact with water while swimming and bathing because scopolamine transdermal system may fall off .
If scopolamine transdermal system falls off , throw it away and apply a new one on the hairless area behind your other ear .
What are the possible side effects of scopolamine transdermal system ?
Scopolamine transdermal system may cause serious side effects , including : • angle closure glaucoma .
If you have open angle glaucoma and use scopolamine transdermal system , remove scopolamine transdermal system and call a doctor right away if you feel pain or discomfort , have blurred vision , or see halos or colored images around lights and reddening of your eyes .
• worsening of seizures .
Tell your doctor about any worsening of seizures while using scopolamine transdermal system .
• an unusual reaction called acute psychosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms : • confusion • agitation • rambling speech • hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not there ) • paranoid behaviors and delusions ( false belief in something ) • worsening of your preeclampsia during pregnancy .
Some pregnant women with severe preeclampsia have had seizures after getting scopolamine by injection in the muscle ( intramuscular ) or injection in the vein ( intravenous ) .
• difficulty urinating .
• difficulties in food passing from the stomach to the small intestines , which may cause abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting .
• withdrawal symptoms after removing scopolamine transdermal system after using it for several days .
Some people may have certain symptoms such as difficulty with balance , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , stomach cramps , sweating , confusion , muscle weakness , low heart rate or low blood pressure that could start 24 hours or more after removing scopolamine transdermal system .
Call your doctor right away if your symptoms become severe .
• temporary increase in the size of your pupil and blurry vision , especially if scopolamine transdermal system comes in contact with your eyes .
• skin burns at the site of scopolamine transdermal system .
This can happen during a medical test called a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Scopolamine transdermal system contains aluminum and should be removed from your skin before you have an MRI .
The most common side effects of using scopolamine transdermal system include : • dry mouth • blurred vision or eye problems • feeling sleepy or drowsy • disorientation ( confusion ) • dizziness • feeling agitated or irritable • pharyngitis ( sore throat ) Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of scopolamine transdermal system .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of scopolamine transdermal system .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use scopolamine transdermal system for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give scopolamine transdermal system to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about scopolamine transdermal system that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in scopolamine transdermal system ?
Active ingredient : scopolamine Inactive ingredients : Aluminized polyester backing film , acrylic adhesive , siliconized PET release liner , ethylene vinyl acetate membrane and isopropyl myristate .
The brown imprinting ink contains FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , polyamide resin , polytetrafluoroethylene , polyethylene wax , carbon black and quinacridone red pigment .
For more information , call Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 748 - 1970 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Scopolamine ( skoe - POL - a - meen ) Transdermal System Read this Instructions for Use before you start using scopolamine transdermal system and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Information about scopolamine transdermal system : • Scopolamine transdermal system is a tan - colored , circle shaped transdermal system ( patch ) with “ Scopolamine 1 mg / 3 days ” printed on it .
• Wear only one scopolamine transdermal system at any time .
• Do not cut the scopolamine transdermal system .
To help prevent nausea and vomiting from motion sickness : • Apply one scopolamine transdermal system to your skin on a hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before the activity to prevent nausea and vomiting .
• If the treatment is needed for longer than 3 days , remove scopolamine transdermal system from the hairless area behind your ear .
Get a new scopolamine transdermal system and place it on the hairless area behind your other ear .
To help prevent nausea and vomiting after surgery : • Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about when to apply scopolamine transdermal system before your scheduled surgery .
• Scopolamine transdermal system should be left in place for 24 hours after surgery .
After 24 hours , scopolamine transdermal system should be removed and thrown away .
How to use scopolamine transdermal system : Inside the scopolamine transdermal system package , you will find one scopolamine transdermal system .
An imprinted , tan backing membrane with a metallic ( silver ) sticky surface is adhered to a clear , disposable plastic release liner with stipples ( See Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Select a hairless area of skin behind one of your ears .
Avoid areas on your skin that may have cuts , pain or tenderness .
Wipe the area of your skin with a clean , dry tissue .
• Tear along the dashed line on the scopolamine transdermal system package to open ( See Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the clear plastic backing ( disposable release liner with stipples ) from the tan - colored round scopolamine transdermal system ( See Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Do not touch the metallic adhesive ( sticky ) surface on scopolamine transdermal system with your hands ( See Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Apply the metallic adhesive surface of scopolamine transdermal system firmly to the dry area of skin behind your ear .
The imprinted , tan - colored side of the scopolamine transdermal system should be facing up and showing ( See Figure 5 ) .
Wash your hands with soap and water right away after applying scopolamine transdermal system , so that any medicine from the scopolamine transdermal system that gets on your hands will not get into your eyes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to remove scopolamine transdermal system : After removing scopolamine transdermal system , be sure to wash your hands and the area behind your ear thoroughly with soap and water .
Please note that the used scopolamine transdermal system will still contain some of the active ingredient after use .
To avoid accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others , fold the used scopolamine transdermal system in half with the sticky side together .
Throw away ( dispose of ) scopolamine transdermal system in the household trash out of the reach of children , pets or others .
How should I store scopolamine transdermal system ?
• Store scopolamine transdermal system at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) until you are ready to use it .
• Store scopolamine transdermal system in an upright position .
• Do not bend or roll scopolamine transdermal system Keep scopolamine transdermal system and all medicines out of reach of children .
The Medication Guide and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC Orlando , FL 32839 - 6408 Rev . 02 / 2020 PM1194 - 01 Ingenus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel – 1 Patch ingenus NDC 50742 - 505 - 01 Scopolamine Transdermal System 1 mg / 3 days CAUTION : WASH HANDS IMMEDIATELY AFTER APPLICATION .
CONTACT WITH EYES MAY CAUSE IRRITATION .
Rx only Contents : 1 Transdermal System front [ MULTIMEDIA ] back [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ingenus NDC 50742 - 505 - 04 Scopolamine Transdermal System 1 mg / 3 days Formulated delivery of approximately 1 mg over three days MOTION SICKNESS & POST - OPERATIVE NAUSEA & VOMITING PREVENTION TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 4 TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ingenus NDC 50742 - 505 - 10 Scopolamine Transdermal System 1 mg / 3 days Formulated delivery of approximately 1 mg over three days MOTION SICKNESS & POST - OPERATIVE NAUSEA & VOMITING PREVENTION TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 10 TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ingenus NDC 50742 - 505 - 24 Scopolamine Transdermal System 1 mg / 3 days Formulated delivery of approximately 1 mg over three days MOTION SICKNESS & POST - OPERATIVE NAUSEA & VOMITING PREVENTION TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 24 TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
