Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 4 . 8 % .....................................
Cough Suppressant Menthol 1 . 0 % ............................................ Topical Analgesic Uses • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough as may occur with common cold and minor bronchial irritation .
• for the temporary relief of pain associated with minor skin irritation .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
XtraCare ® Vaporizing Chest Rub Cough Suppressant Net Wt 4 Oz ( 113 g ) Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin • with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years old and older : • rub a thick layer on chest & throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years : do not use Inactive Ingredients : cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , petrolatum , thymol , turpentine oil Other Information : store at room temperature Questions / Comments ?
1 - 855 - 345 - 5575 DISTRIBUTED BY : REJOICE INTERNATIONAL INC NORTHVILLE , MI 48168 USA MADE IN CHINA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
