Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 0692 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 ADA Council Statement The ADA council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of CVS / pharmacy Blue Mint Antiseptic Mouthwash is based on its finding that the product is effectie in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Adverse Reactions DIST BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC 7711 GROSS PROINT ROAD SKOKIE , IL 60077 QUESTIONS ?
1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 topcare @ topco . com principal display panel COMPARE TO LISTERINE TopCare everyday Antiseptic Mouthwash ANTIGINVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE BLUE MINT • For better oral hygiene & fresher breath • Kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque & the gum disease gingivitis ADA Accepted American Dental Association • Helps reduce plaque • Helps reduce gingivitis 8 . 5 FL OZ ( 250 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
