Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 75 % Octinoxate 7 . 2 % Octocrylene 7 . 04 % Purpose Sunscreen Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs .
Directions • Shake well before use • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Polyquaternium - 10 , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Sorbitan Monooleate , Polyamide - 3 , Polysorbate 20 , Gellan Gum , PG - Hydroxyethylcellulose Stearyldimonium Chloride , Carboxymethylcellulose Na , Cocodimonium Hydroxypropyl Hydrolyzed Keratin , Sodium Alginate , Lauryldimoniumhydroxypropyl Decylglucosides Chloride , Carrageenan , Sodium Lauryl Glucose Carboxylate , Butyrospermum Park ( Shea ) Oil , Lauryl Glucoside , Sorbitan Stearate , Tetrasodium EDTA , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , RubeusIdaeus ( Red Raspberry ) Oil , Punica Granatum ( Pomegranate ) Seed Oil , Vaccinium Macrocarpon ( Cranberry ) Seed Oil , Camellia Oleifera Seed Oil , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Oil , Arctium Lappa ( Burdock Root ) Extract , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Sodium Chloride , Citric Acid Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
Call Toll free 1 - 800 - 295 - 7051 Monday - Friday 9 - 12 a . m ( EST ) BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) Dr Russo ’ s Sun Protective Day Cleanser Sunscreen has been specifically formulated to gently cleanse your skin and protect it from UVA / UVB exposure .
UV rays are prevalent all year round .
It is important to prevent exposure to UVA and UVB at all times .
“ As a cosmetic surgeon , I see the effects of sun exposure on my patient ’ s skin , every day .
As a scientist I know that it can be prevented .
This exclusive Sunscreen Day Cleanser is formulated to deliver a broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF 30 sunscreen ” .
Dr Mario Luca Russo , MD Dr Russo is a leading European cosmetic derma surgeon and founder of The Rejuvenation Clinic & Medispa , known worldwide for its pioneering work on sun damaged and prematurely ageing skin .
He is a member of the British Association of Dermatologists , the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery and a fellow of the American Society of Laser in Medicine and Surgery .
Manufactured for : Dr Russo Skincare Ltd 102 Harley Street London W1G 7 JB England Made in UK www . drrussoskincare . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
