Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily administered orally , in divided doses , depending upon clinical response .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions Tablets Meclizine hydrochloride tablets must be swallowed whole .
12 . 5 mg : light blue colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 441 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
25 mg : light yellow colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 442 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
50 mg : white , oval shaped , partially bisected tablets with “ AN 444 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Description ( 11 ) ] .
5 . 1 Drowsiness Since drowsiness may occur with use of meclizine hydrochloride , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking meclizine hydrochloride [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Concurrent Medical Conditions Because of its potential anticholinergic action , meclizine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
The following adverse reactions associated with the use of meclizine hydrochloride were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Anaphylactic reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , and vomiting .
On rare occasions blurred vision has been reported .
7 . 1 CNS Depressants There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine hydrochloride is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Based on in - vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore , there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Therefore , monitor for adverse reactions and clinical effect accordingly .
7 . 1 CNS Depressants There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine hydrochloride is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Based on in - vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore , there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Therefore , monitor for adverse reactions and clinical effect accordingly .
Meclizine hydrochloride , a histamine ( H1 ) receptor antagonist , is a white or slightly yellowish , crystalline powder .
It has the following structural formula : [ 1 ] Chemically , meclizine hydrochloride is 1 - ( p - chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
Inactive ingredients for the tablets are : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and talc .
The 12 . 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
The 25 mg tablets also contain D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake .
Each meclizine hydrochloride 12 . 5 mg tablet contains 12 . 5 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 10 . 53 mg of meclizine free base .
Each meclizine hydrochloride 25 mg tablet contains 25 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 21 . 07 mg of meclizine free base .
Each meclizine hydrochloride 50 mg tablet contains 50 mg of meclizine dihydrochloride equivalent to 42 . 14 mg of meclizine free base .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which meclizine exerts its therapeutic effect is unknown but is presumed to involve antagonism of the histamine H1 receptor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics There are no relevant pharmacodynamic data regarding meclizine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median Tmax value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans are unknown .
Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 to 6 hours in humans .
Metabolism In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine .
13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Animal studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of meclizine have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Genetic toxicology studies of meclizine have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Animal studies to assess the effects of meclizine on fertility and early embryonic development have not been conducted .
16 . 1 How Supplied Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 12 . 5 mg are supplied as light blue colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 441 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : Bottles of 100 : Bottles of 500 : Bottles of 1000 : Blister packs : ( Packages of 100 unit doses , 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 25 mg are supplied as light yellow colored , oval shaped tablets with “ AN 442 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : Bottles of 100 : Bottles of 500 : Bottles of 1000 : Blister packs : ( Packages of 100 unit doses , 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 50 mg are supplied as white , oval shaped , partially bisected tablets with “ AN 444 ” debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : Bottles of 100 : Bottles of 500 : Bottles of 1000 : Blister packs : ( Packages of 100 unit doses , 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Administration Instructions Advise patients that the tablets must be swallowed whole [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Advise patients that meclizine hydrochloride may cause anaphylactic reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Inform patients that meclizine hydrochloride may impair their ability to engage in potentially dangerous activities , such as operating machinery or vehicles .
Concomitant Drug Interactions Advise patients regarding medications that should not be taken in combination with meclizine hydrochloride or that may necessitate increased monitoring [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
Inform patients that alcohol may increase adverse reactions .
Concurrent Medical Conditions Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider about all of their medical conditions , including if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant or if they are breastfeeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 07 - 2019 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
