Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne Medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Flammable keep away from open fire or flame When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water • With other topical acne medications , at the same time or immediately following use of this product , increased dryness or irritation of the skin may occur .
If this occurs , only one acne medication should be used unless directed by your doctor • Limit use to the face and neck • Wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly , as needed , before applying medication • Cover the affected area with a thin layer one to three times a day and allow to dry • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • Keep tightly closed • Store in a cool , dry place • Cap may pose choking hazard Inactive ingredients Water , Alcohol Denat . , Sodium Gluconate , Propylene Glycol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Isoceteth - 20 , Dimethylacrylamide / Acrylic Acid / Polystyrene Ethyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Sodium Hydroxide , Disodium EDTA , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Benzoate , Oryza Sativa ( Rice ) Extract .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 mL Tube Label Clearasil ® ULTRA ® Rapid Action Seal - to - Clear ® Gel Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication 4 HOURS Seals your pimple and visibly reduces its size and redness in 4 hours With Invisa Skin ® 0 . 42 FL .
OZ .
( 12 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
