Rx Only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Bacitracin and other antibacterial drugs , Bacitracin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
For Intramuscular Use WARNING Nephrotoxicity Bacitracin in parenteral ( intramuscular ) therapy may cause renal failure due to tubular and glomerular necrosis .
Its use should be restricted to infants with staphylococcal pneumonia and empyema when due to organisms shown to be susceptible to bacitracin .
It should be used only where adequate laboratory facilities are available and when constant supervision of the patient is possible .
Renal function should be carefully determined prior to and daily during therapy .
The recommended daily dose should not be exceeded and fluid intake and urinary output maintained at proper levels to avoid kidney toxicity .
If renal toxicity occurs the drug should be discontinued .
The concurrent use of other nephrotoxic drugs , particularly streptomycin , kanamycin , polymyxin B , polymyxin E ( colistin ) , and neomycin should be avoided .
DESCRIPTION Sterile Bacitracin , USP is an antibiotic for intramuscular administration .
Bacitracin is derived from cultures of Bacillus subtilis ( Tracey ) .
It is a white to pale buff , hygroscopic powder , odorless or having a slight odor .
It is freely soluble in water ; insoluble in acetone , chloroform , and ether .
While soluble in alcohol , methanol , and glacial acetic acid , there is some insoluble residue .
It is precipitated from its solutions and inactivated by many of the heavy metals .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] bacitracin A The molecular formula is : C66H103N17O16S .
Bacitracin is comprised of a polypeptide complex and Bacitracin A is the major component in this complex .
The molecular weight of Bacitracin A is 1422 . 71 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bacitracin exerts pronounced antibacterial action in vitro against a variety of gram - positive and a few gram - negative organisms .
However , among systemic diseases , only staphylococcal infections qualify for consideration of bacitracin therapy .
Bacitracin is assayed against a standard and its activity is expressed in units , 1 mg having a potency of not less than 50 units .
Absorption of bacitracin following intramuscular injection is rapid and complete .
A dose of 200 or 300 units / kg every 6 hours gives serum levels of 0 . 2 to 2 mcg / mL in individuals with normal renal function .
The drug is excreted slowly by glomerular filtration .
It is widely distributed in all body organs and is demonstrable in ascitic and pleural fluids after intramuscular injection .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE In accordance with the statements in the " Warning Box " the use of intramuscular bacitracin is limited to the treatment of infants with pneumonia and empyema caused by staphylococci shown to be susceptible to the drug .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Bacitracin and other antibacterial drugs , Bacitracin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in those individuals with a history of previous hypersensitivity or toxic reaction to it .
PRECAUTIONS See " Warning Box " for precautions in regard to kidney toxicity associated with intramuscular use of bacitracin .
Adequate fluid intake should be maintained orally , or if necessary , by parenteral method .
As with other antibiotics , use of this drug may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Prescribing Bacitracin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Bacitracin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Bacitracin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Bacitracin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions Albuminuria , cylindruria , azotemia .
Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage .
Other reactions Nausea and vomiting .
Pain at site of injection .
Skin rashes .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Xellia Pharmaceuticals USA , LLC at safety @ xellia . com or 1 - 855 - 642 - 2594 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION TO BE ADMINISTERED INTRAMUSCULARLY ONLY Infant dose For infants under 2500 grams - 900 units / kg / 24 hours in 2 or 3 divided doses .
For infants over 2500 grams - 1 , 000 units / kg / 24 hours , in 2 or 3 divided doses .
Intramuscular injections of the solution should be given in the upper outer quadrant of the buttocks , alternating right and left and avoiding multiple injections in the same region because of the transient pain following injection .
Preparation of Solutions Should be dissolved in sodium chloride injection containing 2 percent procaine hydrochloride .
The concentration of the antibiotic in the solution should not be less than 5 , 000 units per mL nor more than 10 , 000 units per mL .
Diluents containing parabens should not be used to reconstitute bacitracin ; cloudy solutions and precipitate formation have occurred .
Reconstitution of the 50 , 000 unit vial with 9 . 8 mL of diluent will result in a concentration of 5 , 000 units per mL .
Solutions are stable for one week when stored in a refrigerator 2 ˚ to 8 ˚ C ( 36 ˚ to 46 ˚ F ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Bacitracin , USP is available as a pack of ten ( 10 ' s ) with each vial containing 50 , 000 units ( NDC 72572 - 025 - 10 ) .
Store the unreconstituted product in a refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Rx Only Distd by : Civica , Inc . , Lehi , Utah 84043 Mfd for : Xellia Pharmaceuticals USA , LLC Made in Hyderabad , Telangana India LEA - 020307 - 00 Revised : October 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 Vial Carton NDC - 72572 - 025 - 10 Rx Only Bacitracin for Injection , USP 50 , 000 units per vial CIVICA ™ For Intramuscular Use 10 vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
