Description 25 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of dextrose in water for injection administered by intravenous injection to restore blood glucose levels in hypoglycemia and as a source of carbohydrate calories .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of fluid contains dextrose , hydrous , 250 mg which delivers 3 . 4 kcal / gram ( 0 . 85 kcal / mL ) .
The solution has an osmolarity of 1 . 39 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
pH is 4 . 5 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) .
May contain hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded with the entire unit .
25 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a dextrose ( glucose ) and nutrient ( carbohydrate ) replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose monohydrate , ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The syringe is molded from a specially formulated polypropylene .
Water permeates from inside the container at an extremely slow rate which will have an insignificant effect on solution concentration over the expected shelf life .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the syringe material .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology When administered intravenously , this solution restores blood glucose levels in hypoglycemia and provides a source of carbohydrate calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injection undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
25 % Dextrose Injection , USP provides a concentrated solution sufficiently nonirritating for slow intravenous injection to infants for terminating acute symptomatic episodes of hypoglycemia in the neonate and in older infants ( fasting blood glucose below 40 mg / 100 mL ) .
Values as low as 20 mg / 100 mL are not uncommon in normal asymptomatic infants the first few days of life ( longer in premature infants ) .
Symptoms of hypoglycemia in the newborn and small infants may be difficult to evaluate and convulsions often are the first or only recognized manifestation of depressed blood glucose levels .
Because of widely varied etiology , the precise cause may be difficult to establish .
Hypoglycemia ( deficient blood glucose ) due to organic or functional hyperinsulinism , may be only temporarily abated by administration of dextrose ( glucose ) and may rebound to hypoglycemia levels as release of additional insulin is evoked .
In addition to various other causes , an idiopathic form of hypoglycemia in infancy has been described , as well as occasional transitory hypoglycemia in the neonatal period which disappears in later infancy .
Fetal hyperinsulinism in response to maternal hyperglycemia of diabetic mothers has been observed .
Occasionally convulsions associated with severe hypoglycemia are observed in infants of diabetic mothers .
Since glucose is the only sugar utilized for metabolic requirements of human neural tissue , it is essential to restore deficient blood glucose levels from any cause in order to prevent or correct central nervous system dysfunction .
Indications and Usage 25 % Dextrose Injection is indicated in the treatment of acute symptomatic episodes of hypoglycemia in the neonate or older infant to restore depressed blood glucose levels and control symptoms .
Other drugs , such as epinephrine and glucagon , should be considered in patients unresponsive or intolerant to dextrose ( glucose ) .
Oral feeding of dextrose may be necessary in infants with frequently recurring hypoglycemic episodes or to prevent recurrences due to hyperinsulinemia .
25 % Dextrose Injection also provides a minimal source of carbohydrate calories .
Contraindications A concentrated dextrose solution should not be used when intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage is present .
Warnings 25 % Dextrose Injection , USP is hypertonic and may cause phlebitis and thrombosis at the site of injection .
Significant hyperglycemia and possible hyperosmolar syndrome may result from too rapid administration .
The physician should be aware of the symptoms of hyperosmolar syndrome , such as loss of consciousness .
Precautions Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when intravenous dextrose is given to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
Do not administer unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in infants of diabetic mothers except as may be indicated in neonates who are hypoglycemic .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
If thrombosis should occur during administration , the injection should be stopped and corrective measures instituted .
Concentrated dextrose solutions should not be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with 25 % dextrose solutions in polypropylene syringes have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Adverse Reactions Hyperosmolar syndrome , resulting from excessively rapid administration of concentrated dextrose may cause mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Overdosage In the event of overdosage ( hyperglycemia ) during therapy , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
Dosage and Administration When possible , glucose concentrations of greater than 12 % should be administered by central vein to reduce the risk for phlebitis and thrombosis .
25 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered only by slow intravenous injection .
The dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution , particularly in neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
In the neonate , an injection of 250 to 500 mg ( 1 to 2 mL ) / kg / dose ( 5 to 10 mL of 25 % dextrose in a 5 kg infant ) is recommended to control acute symptomatic hypoglycemia ( tremors , convulsions , etc . ) .
Larger or repeated single doses ( up to 10 or 12 mL of 25 % dextrose ) may be required in severe cases or older infants .
A specimen for blood glucose determination should be taken before injecting the dextrose .
In such emergencies , dextrose should be administered promptly without awaiting pretreatment test results .
Subsequent continuous intravenous infusion of 10 % dextrose injection may be needed to stabilize blood glucose levels .
Further treatment should be guided by evaluation of the underlying disorder .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
How Supplied 25 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1057 - 4 . 0 Revised : August 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
