Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Cimetidine 200 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to cimetidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • kidney disease • • liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • • a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • stomach pain continues • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water right before or any time up to 30 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information Cimetidine Tablets , 200 mg Acid Reducer For Heartburn In clinical studies , Cimetidine Tablets , 200 mg was significantly better than placebo tablets in relieving and preventing heartburn symptoms .
Percent of Heartburn Episodes Relieved [ MULTIMEDIA ] Percent of Patients with Prevention or Reduction of Heartburn Symptoms When Taken 30 Minutes Before a Meal [ MULTIMEDIA ] Percent of Patients with Prevention or Reduction of Heartburn Symptoms When Taken at Time of Meal [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Interaction Warnings : Cimetidine Tablets , 200 mg affects some prescription medicines causing slightly higher levels of those medicines in the blood .
Higher blood levels could lead to side effects in rare situations .
If you currently take Theophylline ( oral asthma medicine ) , Warfarin ( blood thinning medicine ) or Phenytoin ( seizure medicine ) , consult your doctor before taking this product .
Brand names of some medicines which contain one of these ingredients include : THEOPHYLLINE THEO - DUR ® Theochron ® Slo - Bid ® Uniphyl ® Theo - 24 ® WARFARIN Coumadin ® PHENYTOIN Dilantin ® There may be other medicines that contain one of these ingredients .
If in doubt about this or about possible effects of Cimetidine Tablets , 200 mg on any other medicines you are taking , talk to your doctor or pharmacist .
Tips for Managing Heartburn • • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • • Do not eat late at night , or just before bedtime • • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty , and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , even some fruits and vegetables • • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • • If you are overweight , lose weight • • If you smoke , quit smoking • • Raise the head of your bed • • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach Read the directions and warnings before taking this medication .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 Rev 08 / 19 02200 00 J5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Read and retain the important information and drug interaction warnings printed on the product information sheet CIMETIDINE TABLETS , 200 mg ACID REDUCER Just ONE TABLET RELIEVES and PREVENTS Heartburn and Acid Indigestion Take ANYTIME you need it : Before Meal During Meal After Meal Compare to the active ingredient in Tagamet ® HB 200 ACTUAL SIZE 30 TABLETS ( 30 DOSES ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
