Rev . 10 - 02 DESCRIPTION Bromocriptine mesylate is an ergot derivative with potent dopamine receptor agonist activity .
Bromocriptine mesylate is chemically designated as 2 - bromoergocryptine monomethanesulfonate ( salt ) .
* Bromocriptine mesylate is a white or slightly colored , fine crystalline powder odorless or having a weak characteristic odor .
Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 5 mg Tablets Each tablet for oral administration contains bromocriptine mesylate equivalent to 2 . 5 mg bromocriptine .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , corn starch , maleic acid and disodium edetate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bromocriptine mesylate is a dopamine receptor agonist , which activates postsynaptic dopamine receptors .
The dopaminergic neurons in the tuberoinfundibular process modulate the secretion of prolactin from the anterior pituitary by secreting a prolactin inhibitory factor ( thought to be dopamine ) ; in the corpus striatum the dopaminergic neurons are involved in the control of motor function .
Clinically , bromocriptine mesylate significantly reduces plasma levels of prolactin in patients with physiologically elevated prolactin as well as in patients with hyperprolactinemia .
The inhibition of physiological lactation as well as galactorrhea in pathological hyperprolactine - mic states is obtained at dose levels that do not affect secretion of other tropic hormones from the anterior pituitary .
Experiments have demonstrated that bromocriptine induces long lasting stereotyped behavior in rodents and turning behavior in rats having unilateral lesions in the substantia nigra .
These actions , characteristic of those produced by dopamine , are inhibited by dopamine antagonists and suggest a direct action of bromocriptine on striataldopamine receptors .
Bromocriptine mesylate is a nonhormonal , nonestrogenic agent that inhibits the secretion of prolactin in humans , with little or no effect on other pituitary hormones , except in patients with acromegaly , where it lowers elevated blood levels of growth hormone in the majority of patients .
In about 75 % of cases of amenorrhea and galactorrhea , bromocriptine mesylate therapy suppresses the galactorrhea completely , or almost completely , and reinitiates normal ovulatory menstrual cycles .
Menses are usually reinitiated prior to complete suppression of galactorrhea ; the time for this on average is 6 to 8 weeks .
However , some patients respond within a few days , and others may take up to 8 months .
Galactorrhea may take longer to control depending on the degree of stimulation of the mammary tissue prior to therapy .
At least a 75 % reduction in secretion is usually observed after 8 to 12 weeks .
Some patients may fail to respond even after 12 months of therapy .
In many acromegalic patients , bromocriptine mesylate produces a prompt and sustained reduction in circulating levels of serum growth hormone .
Bromocriptine mesylate produces its therapeutic effect in the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease , a clinical condition characterized by a progressive deficiency in dopamine synthesis in the substantia nigra , by directly stimulating the dopamine receptors in the corpus striatum .
In contrast , levodopa exerts its therapeutic effect only after conversion to dopamine by the neurons of the substantia nigra , which are known to be numerically diminished in this patient population .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of bromocriptine in human subjects were studied with the help of radioactively labeled drug .
Twenty - eight percent of an oral dose was absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The blood levels following a 2 . 5 mg dose were in the range of 2 to 3 ng equivalents / mL .
Plasma levels were in the range of 4 to 6 ng equivalents / mL indicating that the red blood cells did not contain appreciable amounts of drug and / or metabolites .
In - vitro experiments showed that the drug was 90 % to 96 % bound to serum albumin .
Bromocriptine was completely metabolized prior to excretion .
The major route of excretion of absorbed drug was via the bile .
Only 2 . 5 % to 5 . 5 % of the dose was excreted in the urine .
Almost all ( 84 . 6 % ) of the administered dose was excreted in the feces in 120 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyperprolactinemia - Associated Dysfunctions Bromocriptine mesylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of dysfunctions associated with hyperprolactinemia including amenorrhea with or without galactorrhea , infertility or hypogonadism .
Bromocriptine mesylate treatment is indicated in patients with prolactin - secreting adenomas , which may be the basic underlying endocrinopathy contributing to the above clinical presentations .
Reduction in tumor size has been demonstrated in both male and female patients with macroadenomas .
In cases where adenectomy is elected , a course of bromocriptine mesylate therapy may be used to reduce the tumor mass prior to surgery .
Acromegaly Bromocriptine mesylate tablets are indicated in the treatment of acromegaly .
Bromocriptine mesylate therapy , alone or as adjunctive therapy with pituitary irradiation or surgery , reduces serum growth hormone by 50 % or more in approximately one - half of patients treated , although not usually to normal levels .
Since the effects of external pituitary radiation may not become maximal for several years , adjunctive therapy with bromocriptine mesylate offers potential benefit before the effects of irradiation are manifested .
Parkinson ' s Disease Bromocriptine mesylate tablets are indicated in the treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic or postencephalitic Parkinson ' s disease .
As adjunctive treatment to levodopa ( alone or with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor ) , bromocriptine mesylate therapy may provide additional therapeutic benefits in those patients who are currently maintained on optimal dosages of levodopa , those who are beginning to deteriorate ( develop tolerance ) to levodopa therapy , and those who are experiencing " end of dose failure " on levodopa therapy .
Bromocriptine mesylate therapy may permit a reduction of the maintenance dose of levodopa and , thus may ameliorate the occurrence and / or severity of adverse reactions associated with long - term levodopa therapy such as abnormal involuntary movements ( e . g . , dyskinesias ) and the marked swings in motor function ( " on - off " phenomenon ) .
Continued efficacy of bromocriptine mesylate therapy during treatment of more than two years has not been established .
Data are insufficient to evaluate potential benefit from treating newly diagnosed Parkinson ' s disease with bromocriptine mesylate .
Studies have shown , however , significantly more adverse reactions ( notably nausea , hallucinations , confusion and hypotension ) in bromocriptine mesylate treated patients than in levodopa / carbidopa treated patients .
Patients unresponsive to levodopa are poor candidates for bromocriptine mesylate therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Uncontrolled hypertension and sensitivity to any ergot alkaloids .
In patients being treated for hyperprolactinemia bromocriptine mesylate should be withdrawn when pregnancy is diagnosed ( see PRECAUTIONSHyperprolactinemic States ) .
In the event that bromocriptine mesylate is reinstituted to control a rapidly expanding macroadenoma ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hyperprolactinemic States ) and a patient experiences a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy , the benefit of continuing bromocriptine mesylate must be weighed against the possible risk of its use during a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy .
When bromocriptine mesylate is being used to treat acromegaly , prolactinoma , or Parkinson ' s disease in patients who subsequently become pregnant , a decision should be made as to whether the therapy continues to be medically necessary or can be withdrawn .
If it is continued , the drug should be withdrawn in those who may experience hypertensive disorders of pregnancy ( including eclampsia , preeclampsia , or pregnancy - induced hypertension ) unless withdrawal of bromocriptine mesylate is considered to be medically contraindicated .
The drug should not be used during the post - partum period in women with a history of coronary artery disease and other severe cardiovascular conditions unless withdrawal is considered medically contraindicated .
If the drug is used in the post - partum period the patient should be observed with caution .
WARNINGS Since hyperprolactinemia with amenorrhea / galactorrhea and infertility has been found in patients with pituitary tumors , a complete evaluation of the pituitary is indicated before treatment with bromocriptine mesylate .
If pregnancy occurs during bromocriptine mesylate administration , careful observation of these patients is mandatory .
Prolactin - secreting adenomas may expand and compression of the optic or other cranial nerves may occur , emergency pituitary surgery becoming necessary .
In most cases , the compression resolves following delivery .
Reinitiation of bromocriptine mesylate treatment has been reported to produce improvement in the visual fields of patients in whom nerve compression has occurred during pregnancy .
The safety of bromocriptine mesylate treatment during pregnancy to the mother and fetus has not been established .
Symptomatic hypotension can occur in patients treated with bromocriptine mesylate for any indication .
In postpartum studies with bromocriptine mesylate , decreases in supine systolic and diastolic pressures of greater than 20 mm and 10 mm Hg , respectively , have been observed in almost 30 % of patients receiving bromocriptine mesylate .
On occasion , the drop in supine systolic pressure was as much as 50 to 59 mm of Hg .
While hypotension during the start of therapy with bromocriptine mesylate occurs in some patients , in postmarketing experience in the U . S . in postpartum patients 89 cases of hypertension have been reported , sometimes at the initiation of therapy , but often developing in the second week of therapy ; seizures have been reported in 72 cases ( including 4 cases of status epilepticus ) , both with and without the prior development of hypertension ; 30 cases of stroke have been reported mostly in postpartum patients whose prenatal and obstetric courses had been uncomplicated .
Many of these patients experiencing seizures and / or strokes reported developing a constant and often progressively severe headache hours to days prior to the acute event .
Some cases of strokes and seizures were also preceded by visual disturbances ( blurred vision , and transient cortical blindness ) .
Nine cases of acute myocardial infarction have been reported .
Although a causal relationship between bromocriptine mesylate administration and hypertension , seizures , strokes , and myocardial infarction in postpartum women has not been established , use of the drug for prevention of physiological lactation , or in patients with uncontrolled hypertension is not recommended .
In patients being treated for hyperprolactinemia bromocriptine mesylate should be withdrawn when pregnancy is diagnosed ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hyperprolactinemic States ) .
In the event that bromocriptine mesylate is reinstituted to control a rapidly expanding macroadenoma ( see PRECAUTIONSHyperprolactinemic States ) and a patient experiences a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy , the benefit of continuing bromocriptine mesylate must be weighed against the possible risk of its use during a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy .
When bromocriptine mesylate is being used to treat acromegaly or Parkinson ' s disease in patients who subsequently become pregnant , a decision should be made as to whether the therapy continues to be medically necesssary or can be withdrawn .
If it is continued , the drug should be withdrawn in those who may experience hypertensive disorders of pregnancy ( including eclampsia , preeclampsia , or pregnancy - induced hypertension ) unless withdrawal of bromocriptine mesylate is considered to be medically contraindicated .
Because of the possibility of an interaction between bromocriptine mesylate and other ergot alkaloids , the concomitant use of these medications is not recommended .
Particular attention should be paid to patients who have recently received other drugs that can alter the blood pressure .
Periodic monitoring of the blood pressure , particularly during the first weeks of therapy is prudent .
If hypertension , severe , progressive , or unremitting headache ( with or without visual disturbance ) , or evidence of CNS toxicity develops , drug therapy should be discontinued and the patient should be evaluated promptly .
Long - term treatment ( 6 to 36 months ) with bromocriptine mesylate in doses ranging from 20 to 100 mg / day has been associated with pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusion and thickening of the pleura in a few patients .
In those instances in which bromocriptine mesylate treatment was terminated , the changes slowly reverted towards normal .
PRECAUTIONS General Safety and efficacy of bromocriptine mesylate have not been established in patients with renal or hepatic disease .
Care should be exercised when administering bromocriptine mesylate therapy concomitantly with other medications known to lower blood pressure .
The drug should be used with caution in patients with a history of psychosis or cardiovascular disease .
If acromegalic patients or patients with prolactinoma or Parkinson ' s disease are being treated with bromocriptine mesylate during pregnancy , they should be cautiously observed , particularly during the post - partum period if they have a history of cardiovascular disease .
Hyperprolactinemic States The relative efficacy of bromocriptine mesylate versus surgery in preserving visual fields is not known .
Patients with rapidly progressive visual field loss should be evaluated by a neurosurgeon to help decide on the most appropriate therapy .
Since pregnancy is often the therapeutic objective in many hyperprolactinemic patients presenting with amenorrhea / galactorrhea and hypogonadism ( infertility ) , a careful assessment of the pituitary is essential to detect the presence of a prolactin - secreting adenoma .
Patients not seeking pregnancy , or those harboring large adenomas , should be advised to use contraceptive measures , other than oral contraceptives , during treatment with bromocriptine mesylate .
Since pregnancy may occur prior to reinitiation of menses , a pregnancy test is recommended at least every four weeks during the amenorrheic period , and , once menses are reinitiated , every time a patient misses a menstrual period .
Treatment with bromocriptine mesylate tablets should be discontinued as soon as pregnancy has been established .
Patients must be monitored closely throughout pregnancy for signs and symptoms that may signal the enlargement of a previously undetected or existing prolactin - secreting tumor .
Discontinuation of bromocriptine mesylate treatment in patients with known macroadenomas has been associated with rapid regrowth of tumor and increase in serum prolactin in most cases .
Acromegaly Cold sensitive digital vasospasm has been observed in some acromegalic patients treated with bromocriptine mesylate .
The response , should it occur , can be reversed by reducing the dose of bromocriptine mesylate and may be prevented by keeping the fingers warm .
Cases of severe gastrointestinal bleeding from peptic ulcers have been reported , some fatal .
Although there is no evidence that bromocriptine mesylate increases the incidence of peptic ulcers in acromegalic patients , symptoms suggestive of peptic ulcer should be investigated thoroughly and treated appropriately .
Patients with a history of peptic ulcer or gastrointestinal bleeding should be observed carefully during treatment with bromocriptine mesylate .
Possible tumor expansion while receiving bromocriptine mesylate therapy has been reported in a few patients .
Since the natural history of growth hormone secreting tumors is unknown , all patients should be carefully monitored and , if evidence of tumor expansion develops , discontinuation of treatment and alternative procedures considered .
Parkinson ' s Disease Safety during long - term use for more than two years at the doses required for parkinsonism has not been established .
As with any chronic therapy , periodic evaluation of hepatic , hematopoietic , cardiovascular , and renal function is recommended .
Symptomatic hypotension can occur and , therefore , caution should be exercised when treating patients receiving antihypertensive drugs .
High doses of bromocriptine mesylate may be associated with confusion and mental disturbances .
Since parkinsonian patients may manifest mild degrees of dementia , caution should be used when treating such patients .
Bromocriptine mesylate administered alone or concomitantly with levodopa may cause hallucinations ( visual or auditory ) .
Hallucinations usually resolve with dosage reduction ; occasionally , discontinuation of bromocriptine mesylate is required .
Rarely , after high doses , hallucinations have persisted for several weeks following discontinuation of bromocriptine mesylate .
As with levodopa , caution should be exercised when administering bromocriptine mesylate to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have a residual atrial , nodal , or ventricular arrhythmia .
Retroperitoneal fibrosis has been reported in a few patients receiving long - term therapy ( 2 to 10 years ) with bromocriptine mesylate in doses ranging from 30 to 140 mg daily .
Information for patients When initiating therapy , all patients receiving bromocriptine mesylate should be cautioned with regard to engaging in activities requiring rapid and precise responses , such as driving an automobile or operating machinery since dizziness ( 8 % to 16 % ) , drowsiness ( 8 % ) , faintness , fainting ( 8 % ) , and syncope ( less than 1 % ) have been reported early in the course of therapy .
Patients receiving bromocriptine mesylate for hyperprolactinemic states associated with macroadenoma or those who have had previous transsphenoidal surgery , should be told to report any persistent watery nasal discharge to their physician .
Patients receiving bromocriptine mesylate for treatment of a macroadenoma should be told that discontinuation of drug may be associated with rapid regrowth of the tumor and recurrence of their original symptoms .
Drug interactions The risk of using bromocriptine mesylate in combination with other drugs has not been systematically evaluated , but alcohol may potentiate the side effects of bromocriptine mesylate .
Bromocriptine mesylate may interact with dopamine antagonists , butyrophenones , and certain other agents .
Compounds in these categories result in a decreased efficacy of bromocriptine mesylate : phenothiazines , haloperidol , metoclopramide , pimozide .
Concomitant use of bromocriptine mesylate with other ergot alkaloids is not recommended .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 74 - week study was conducted in mice using dietary levels of bromocriptine mesylate equivalent to oral doses of 10 and 50 mg / kg / day .
A 100 - week study in rats was conducted using dietary levels equivalent to oral doses of 1 . 7 , 9 . 8 , and 44 mg / kg / day .
The highest doses tested in mice and rats were approximately 2 . 5 and 4 . 4 times , respectively , the maximum human dose administered in controlled clinical trials ( 100 mg / day ) based on body surface area .
Malignant uterine tumors , endometrial and myometrial , were found in rats as follows : 0 / 50 control females , 2 / 50 females given 1 . 7 mg / kg daily , 7 / 49 females given 9 . 8 mg / kg daily , and 9 / 50 females given 44 mg / kg daily .
The occurrence of these neoplasms is probably attributable to the high estrogen / progesterone ratio which occurs in rats as a result of the prolactin - inhibiting action of bromocriptine mesylate .
The endocrine mechanisms believed to be involved in the rats are not present in humans .
There is no known correlation between uterine malignancies occurring in bromocriptine - treated rats and human risk .
In contrast to the findings in rats , the uteri from mice killed after 74 weeks treatment did not exhibit evidence of drug - related changes .
Bromocriptine mesylate was evaluated for mutagenic potential in the battery of tests that included Ames bacterial mutation assay , mutagenic activity in vitro on V79 Chinese hamster fibroblasts , cytogenetic analysis of Chinese hamster bone marrow cells following in vivo treatment , and an in vivo micronucleus test for mutagenic potential in mice .
No mutagenic effects were obtained in any of these tests .
Fertility and reproductive performance in female rats were not influenced adversely by treatment with bromocriptine beyond the predicted decrease in the weight of pups due to suppression of lactation .
In males treated with 50 mg / kg of this drug , mating and fertility were within the normal range .
Increased perinatal loss was produced in the subgroups of dams , sacrificed on day 21 post - partum ( p . p . ) after mating with males treated with the highest dose ( 50 mg / kg ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Category B : Administration of 10 to 30 mg / kg of bromocriptine to 2 strains of rats on days 6 to 15 post coitum ( p . c . ) as well as a single dose of 10 mg / kg on day 5 p . c . interfered with nidation .
Three mg / kg given on days 6 to 15 were without effect on nidation , and did not produce any anomalies .
In animals treated from day 8 to 15 p . c . , i . e . , after implantation , 30 mg / kg produced increased prenatal mortality in the form of increased incidence of embryonic resorption .
One anomaly , aplasia of spinal vertebrae and ribs , was found in the group of 262 fetuses derived from the dams treated with 30 mg / kg bromocriptine .
No fetotoxic effects were found in offspring of dams treated during the peri - or post - natal period .
Two studies were conducted in rabbits ( 2 strains ) to determine the potential to interfere with nidation .
Dose levels of 100 or 300 mg / kg / day from day 1 to day 6 p . c . did not adversely affect nidation .
The high dose was approximately 63 times the maximum human dose administered in controlled clinical trials ( 100 mg / day ) , based on body surface area .
In New Zealand white rabbits some embryo mortality occurred at 300 mg / kg which was a reflection of overt maternal toxicity .
Three studies were conducted in 2 strains of rabbits to determine the teratological potential of bromocriptine at dose levels of 3 , 10 , 30 , 100 , and 300 mg / kg given from day 6 to day 18 p . c . in 2 studies with the Yellow - silver strain , cleft palate was found in 3 and 2 fetuses at maternally toxic doses of 100 and 300 mg / kg , respectively .
One control fetus also exhibited this anomaly .
In the third study conducted with New Zealand white rabbits using an identical protocol , no cleft palates were produced .
No teratological or embryo - toxic effects of bromocriptine were produced in any of 6 offspring from 6 monkeys at a dose level of 2 mg / kg .
Information concerning 1276 pregnancies in women taking bromocriptine has been collected .
In the majority of cases , bromocriptine was discontinued within 8 weeks into pregnancy ( mean 28 . 7 days ) , however , 8 patients received the drug continuously throughout pregnancy .
The mean daily dose for all patients was 5 . 8 mg ( range 1 to 40 mg ) .
Of these 1276 pregnancies , there were 1088 full term deliveries ( 4 stillborn ) , 145 spontaneous abortions ( 11 . 4 % ) , and 28 induced abortions ( 2 . 2 % ) .
Moreover , 12 extrauterine gravidities and 3 hydatidiform moles ( twice in the same patient ) caused early termination of pregnancy .
These data compare favorably with the abortion rate ( 11 % to 25 % ) cited for pregnancies induced by clomiphene citrate , menopausal gonadotropin , and chorionic gonadotropin .
Although spontaneous abortions often go unreported , especially prior to 20 weeks of gestation , their frequency has been estimated to be 15 % .
The incidence of birth defects in the population at large ranges from 2 % to 4 . 5 % .
The incidence in 1109 live births from patients receiving bromocriptine is 3 . 3 % .
There is no suggestion that bromocriptine contributed to the type or incidence of birth defects in this group of infants .
Nursing mothers Bromocriptine mesylate should not be used during lactation in postpartum women .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of bromocriptine for the treatment of prolactin - secreting pituitary adenomas have been established in patients age 16 to adult .
No data are available for bromocriptine use in pediatric patients under the age of 8 years .
A single 8 - year old patient treated with bromocriptine for a prolactin - secreting pituitary macroadenoma has been reported without therapeutic response .
The use of bromocriptine for the treatment of prolactin - secreting adenomas in pediatric patients in the age group 11 to under 16 years is supported by evidence from well - controlled trials in adults , with additional data in a limited number ( n = 14 ) of children and adolescents 11 to 15 years of age with prolactin - secreting pituitary macro - and microadenomas who have been treated with bromocriptine .
Of the 14 reported patients , 9 had successful outcomes , 3 partial responses , and 2 failed to respond to bromocriptine treatment .
Chronic hypopituitarism complicated macroadenoma treatment in 5 of the responders , both in patients receiving bromocriptine alone and in those who received bromocriptine in combination with surgical treatment and / or pituitary irradiation .
Safety and effectiveness of bromocriptine in pediatric patients have not been established for any other indication listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hyperprolactinemic Indications The incidence of adverse effects is quite high ( 69 % ) but these are generally mild to moderate in degree .
Therapy was discontinued in approximately 5 % of patients because of adverse effects .
These in decreasing order of frequency are : nausea ( 49 % ) , headache ( 19 % ) , dizziness ( 17 % ) , fatigue ( 7 % ) , light - headedness ( 5 % ) , vomiting ( 5 % ) , abdominal cramps ( 4 % ) , nasal congestion ( 3 % ) , constipation ( 3 % ) , diarrhea ( 3 % ) , and drowsiness ( 3 % ) .
A slight hypotensive effect may accompany bromocriptine mesylate treatment .
The occurrence of adverse reactions may be lessened by temporarily reducing dosage to 1 . 25 mg two or three times daily .
A few cases of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea have been reported in patients receiving bromocriptine mesylate for treatment of large prolactinomas .
This has occurred rarely , usually only in patients who have received previous transsphenoidal surgery , pituitary radiation , or both , and who were receiving bromocriptine mesylate for tumor recurrence .
It may also occur in previously untreated patients whose tumor extends into the sphenoid sinus .
Acromegaly The most frequent adverse reactions encountered in acromegalic patients treated with bromocriptine mesylate were : nausea ( 18 % ) , constipation ( 14 % ) , postural / orthostatic hypotension ( 6 % ) , anorexia ( 4 % ) , dry mouth / nasal stuffiness ( 4 % ) , indigestion / dyspepsia ( 4 % ) , digital vasospasm ( 3 % ) , drowsiness / tiredness ( 3 % ) and vomiting ( 2 % ) .
Less frequent adverse reactions ( less than 2 % ) were : gastrointestinal bleeding , dizziness , exacerbation of Raynaud ' s Syndrome , headache and syncope .
Rarely ( less than 1 % ) hair loss , alcohol potentiation , faintness , lightheadedness , arrhythmia , ventricular tachycardia , decreased sleep requirement , visual hallucinations , lassitude , shortness of breath , bradycardia , vertigo , paresthesia , sluggishness , vasovagal attack , delusional psychosis , paranoia , insomnia , heavy headedness , reduced tolerance to cold , tingling of ears , facial pallor and muscle cramps have been reported .
Parkinson ' s Disease In clinical trials in which bromocriptine was administered with concomitant reduction in the dose of levodopa / carbidopa , the most common newly appearing adverse reactions were : nausea , abnormal involuntary movements , hallucinations , confusion , " on - off " phenomenon , dizziness , drowsiness , faintness / fainting , vomiting , asthenia , abdominal discomfort , visual disturbance , ataxia , insomnia , depression , hypotension , shortness of breath , constipation , and vertigo .
Less common adverse reactions which may be encountered include : anorexia , anxiety , blepharospasm , dry mouth , dysphagia , edema of the feet and ankles , erythromelalgia , epileptiform seizure , fatigue , headache , lethargy , mottling of skin , nasal stuffiness , nervousness , nightmares , paresthesia , skin rash , urinary frequency , urinary incontinence , urinary retention , and rarely , signs and symptoms of ergotism such as tingling of fingers , cold feet , numbness , muscle cramps of feet and legs or exacerbation of Raynaud ' s Syndrome .
Abnormalities in laboratory tests may include elevations in blood urea nitrogen , SGOT , SGPT , GGPT , CPK , alkaline phosphatase and uric acid , which are usually transient and not of clinical significance .
Adverse Events Observed in Other Conditions : Postpartum Patients In postpartum studies with bromocriptine mesylate 23 percent of postpartum patients treated had at least 1 side effect , but they were generally mild to moderate in degree .
Therapy was discontinued in approximately 3 % of patients .
The most frequently occurring adverse reactions were : headache ( 10 % ) , dizziness ( 8 % ) , nausea ( 7 % ) , vomiting ( 3 % ) , fatigue ( 1 . 0 % ) , syncope ( 0 . 7 % ) , diarrhea ( 0 . 4 % ) and cramps ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Decreases in blood pressure ( > 20 mm Hg systolic and > 10 mm Hg diastolic ) occurred in 28 % of patients at least once during the first 3 postpartum days ; these were usually of a transient nature .
Reports of fainting in the puerperium may possibly be related to this effect .
In postmarketing experience in the U . S . serious adverse reactions reported include 72 cases of seizures ( including 4 cases of status epilepticus ) , 30 cases of stroke , and 9 cases of myocardial infarction among postpartum patients .
Seizure cases were not necessarily accompanied by the development of hypertension .
An unremitting and often progressively severe headache , sometimes accompanied by visual disturbance , often preceded by hours to days many cases of seizure and / or stroke .
Most patients had shown no evidence of any of the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy including eclampsia , preeclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension .
One stroke case was associated with sagittal sinus thrombosis , and another was associated with cerebral and cerebellar vasculitis .
One case of myocardial infarction was associated with unexplained disseminated intravascular coagulation and a second occurred in conjunction with use of another ergot alkaloid .
The relationship of these adverse reactions to bromocriptine mesylate administration has not been established .
OVERDOSAGE The most commonly reported signs and symptoms associated with acute bromocriptine mesylate overdose are : nausea , vomiting , constipation , diaphoresis , dizziness , pallor , severe hypotension , malaise , confusion , lethargy , drowsiness , delusions , hallucinations , and repetitive yawning .
The lethal dose has not been established and the drug has a very wide margin of safety .
However , one death occurred in a patient who committed suicide with an unknown quantity of bromocriptine mesylate and chloroquine .
Treatment of overdose consists of removal of the drug by emesis ( if conscious ) , gastric lavage , activated charcoal , or saline catharsis .
Careful supervision and recording of fluid intake and output is essential .
Hypotension should be treated by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position and administering I . V . fluids .
If satisfactory relief of hypotension cannot be achieved by using the above measures to their fullest extent , vasopressors should be considered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General It is recommended that bromocriptine mesylate be taken with food .
Patients should be evaluated frequently during dose escalation to determine the lowest dosage that produces a therapeutic response .
Hyperprolactinemic Indications The initial dosage of bromocriptine mesylate tablets in adults is one - half to one 2 . 5 mg scored tablet daily .
An additional 2 . 5 mg tablet may be added to the treatment regimen as tolerated every 2 - 7 days until an optimal therapeutic response is achieved .
The therapeutic dosage ranged from 2 . 5 - 15 mg daily in adults studied clinically .
Based on limited data in children of age 11 to 15 , ( see Pediatric use subsection ) the initial dose is one - half to one 2 . 5 mg scored tablet daily .
Dosing may need to be increased as tolerated until a therapeutic response is achieved .
The therapeutic dosage ranged from 2 . 5 - 10 mg daily in children with prolactin - secreting pituitary adenomas .
In order to reduce the likelihood of prolonged exposure to bromocriptine mesylate should an unsuspected pregnancy occur , a mechanical contraceptive should be used in conjunction with bromocriptine mesylate therapy until normal ovulatory menstrual cycles have been restored .
Contraception may then be discontinued in patients desiring pregnancy .
Thereafter , if menstruation does not occur within 3 days of the expected date , bromocriptine mesylate therapy should be discontinued and a pregnancy test performed .
Acromegaly Virtually all acromegalic patients receiving therapeutic benefit from bromocriptine mesylate also have reductions in circulating levels of growth hormone .
Therefore , periodic assessment of circulating levels of growth hormone will , in most cases , serve as a guide in determining the therapeutic potential of bromocriptine mesylate .
If , after a brief trial with bromocriptine mesylate therapy , no significant reduction in growth hormone levels has taken place , careful assessment of the clinical features of the disease should be made , and if no change has occurred , dosage adjustment or discontinuation of therapy should be considered .
The initial recommended dosage is 1 / 2 to one 2 . 5 mg bromocriptine mesylate tablet on retiring ( with food ) for 3 days .
An additional 1 / 2 to 1 tablet should be added to the treatment regimen as tolerated every 3 to 7 days until patient obtains optimal therapeutic benefit .
Patients should be reevaluated monthly and the dosage adjusted based on reductions of growth hormone or clinical response .
The usual optimal therapeutic dosage range of bromocriptine mesylate varies from 20 to 30 mg per day in most patients .
The maximum dosage should not exceed 100 mg per day .
Patients treated with pituitary irradiation should be withdrawn from bromocriptine mesylate therapy on a yearly basis to assess both the clinical effects of radiation on the disease process as well as the effects of bromocriptine mesylate therapy .
Usually a 4 to 8 week withdrawal period is adequate for this purpose .
Recurrence of the signs / symptoms or increases in growth hormone indicate the disease process is still active and further courses of bromocriptine mesylate should be considered .
Parkinson ' s Disease The basic principle of bromocriptine mesylate therapy is to initiate treatment at a low dosage and , on an individual basis , increase the daily dosage slowly until a maximum therapeutic response is achieved .
The dosage of levodopa during this introductory period should be maintained , if possible .
The initial dose of bromocriptine mesylate is 1 / 2 of a 2 . 5 mg tablet twice daily with meals .
Assessments are advised at two week intervals during dosage titration to ensure that the lowest dosage producing an optimal therapeutic response is not exceeded .
If necessary , the dosage may be increased every 14 to 28 days by 2 . 5 mg per day with meals .
Should it be advisable to reduce the dosage of levodopa because of adverse reactions , the daily dosage of bromocriptine mesylate , if increased , should be accomplished gradually in small ( 2 . 5 mg ) increments .
The safety of bromocriptine mesylate has not been demonstrated in dosages exceeding 100 mg per day .
HOW SUPPLIED Bromocriptine mesylate tablets , USP 2 . 5 mg are white to yellowish white round tablets , scored on one side with debossed code BCT 2 1 / 2 on reverse side , and are available in bottles of 30 and 100 .
Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Rx Only Rev . October 2002 Manufactured by Lek Pharmaceuticals d . d . Verovøkova 57 , Ljubljana , Slovenia
