Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor inactive ingredients none Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mulitated .
Epsom Salt is a trusted remedy that is useful every season of the year BEAT WINTER BLUES - Simply dissolve two cups of epsom salt in a warm bath to : - reduce stifness and soreness in joints - warmand comfort your muscle aches A MINERAL SPRING SPA - Springtime is your fresh start to working out ofter leadng to overexertion .
Just dissolve two cups of epsom salt in warm bat water , settle in , and experience the relief and relaxation .
FIRST AID SUMMER SALT - Dissolve two cups of epsom salt per gallon of water to make a compress .
Apply as wet dressing with towel to : relieve stiffness and sorness .
warm and comfort yor muscles aches RELAX INTO AUTUMN - By dissolving two cups of epsom salt in a gallon of warm water , you ' ll be able to : soak away tiredness and soreness help soothe away stress Directions : Dissolve 2 cups of this product per galon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in a bath .
Use warm water for best results CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warms soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physican .
For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Discover the Relaxing Spa - Like Qualities of This Product in Your Bath Distributed by : Vi : Jon 8515 Page Avenue St . Louis , MO 63114 V # 425040 Item # 602 principal panel display SOUND BODY Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . MgSO4 - 7H20 Saline Laxative For Relief of Occasional Constipation Soaking Aid For Minor Sprains and Bruises Discover the Relaxing Spa - Like Qualities of This Product in Your Bath NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
