DESCRIPTION Each Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppository for rectal administration contains 30 mg hydrocortisone acetate , USP in a specially blended hydrogenated vegetable oil base .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid .
The molecular weight of hydrocortisone acetate is 404 . 50 .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - with an empirical formula of C23H32O6 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 percent of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of the anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenesis No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
Pregnancy Category C and Nursing Mothers In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue taking the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Until adequate studies in pregnant or lactating women have been conducted , this drug should be used during pregnancy or by nursing mothers only when clearly needed and when the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories : 1 .
Burning 5 .
Folliculitis 2 .
Itching 6 .
Hypopigmentation 3 .
Irritation 7 .
Allergic Contact Dermatitis 4 .
Dryness 8 .
Secondary Infection To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 922 - 1038 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual dosage : One suppository in the rectum twice daily morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily ; or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to response .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are easy to open and available in cartons of : 12 ' s NDC 0713 - 0493 - 12 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Store away from heat .
Protect from freezing .
Distributed by : Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South Plainfield , NJ 07080 8 - 0493CPLNC1 Iss .
01 / 2021 VC7545 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mg Carton NDC 0713 - 0493 - 12 Rx Only Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 30 mg UNIT DOSE 12 Suppositories FOR RECTAL USE ONLY Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 mg PVC HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE 30 mg Distributed by : Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South Plainfield , NJ 07080 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
