1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in adults for the treatment of : • active duodenal ulcer ( DU ) .
• active gastric ulcer ( GU ) .
• symptomatic nonerosive gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) .
• erosive esophagitis due to GERD , diagnosed by biopsy .
• treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison syndrome , multiple endocrine neoplasias ) .
• reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in pediatric patients 1 year of age and older for the treatment of : • peptic ulcer disease .
• GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations .
Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of : • GERD .
Famotidine for oral suspension is a histamine - 2 ( H2 ) receptor antagonist indicated ( 1 ) : In adults for the treatment of : • active duodenal ulcer ( DU ) .
• active gastric ulcer ( GU ) .
• symptomatic nonerosive gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) .
• erosive esophagitis due to GERD , diagnosed by biopsy .
• treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison syndrome , multiple endocrine neoplasias ) .
• reduction of the risk of DU recurrence .
In pediatric patients 1 year of age and older for the treatment of : • peptic ulcer • GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations In pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of : • GERD .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended adult dosage by indication ( 2 . 1 ) : Active DU 40 mg once daily ; or 20 mg twice daily Active GU 40 mg once daily Symptomatic Nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis due to GERD 20 mg twice daily ; or 40 mg twice daily Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours ; adjust to patient needs ; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily • Recommended pediatric dosage by indication ( 2 . 2 ) : Peptic Ulcer Disease 1 year to less than 17 years Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg once daily ; or 0 . 25 mg / kg twice daily ; may increase to 1 mg / kg once daily at bedtime or 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily ; Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD Birth to less than 3 months Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg once daily ; may increase to 1 mg / kg once daily 3 months to less than 1 year Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily ; may increase to 1 mg / kg twice daily ; Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations 1 year to less than 17 years 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg twice daily • See full prescribing information for complete dosing information in adults and pediatrics , recommended treatment duration by indication , and dosage adjustment for adult patients with renal impairment .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) Administration ( 2 . 3 ) : • Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dosage and duration of Famotidine for oral suspension in adults with normal renal function is shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine for Oral Suspensiona in Adults with Normal Renal Function a After preparation , the concentration of famotidine oral suspension is 8 mg / mL [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] b Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
c In clinical trials , the majority of patients healed within 4 weeks .
For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks , consider an additional 2 to 4 weeks of treatment [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
d Longer treatment durations have not been studied in clinical trials [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 , 14 . 3 ) ] .
Indication Recommended Dosage Rec ommended Duration Active DU 40 mg once daily ; or 20 mg twice dailyb Up to 8 weeksc , d Active GU 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeksd Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeksd Erosive esophagitis due to GERD , diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily ; or 40 mg twice dailyb Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions Starting dosage : 20 mg every 6 hours ; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence 20 mg once daily 1 yearc , d or as clinically indicated 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage and duration of famotidine for oral suspension in pediatric patients with normal renal function is shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine for Oral Suspensiona in Pediatric Patients with Normal Renal Function a After preparation , the concentration of famotidine oral suspension is 8 mg / mL [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] b Treatment duration based on adult recommendations ( see Table 1 ) .
Individualize the dose and duration based upon clinical response an / or pH determinations ( gastric or esophageal ) and endoscopy .
c Use conservative measures ( e . g . , thickened feedings ) concurrently [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
d After 4 weeks of treatment re - evaluate the patient .
Consider an additional 4 weeks of treatment if treatment benefit outweighs potential risks .
Indication Pediatric Age Range Recommended Dosagea Duration Pepti c Ulcer Disease 1 year to less than 17 years Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg once daily ; or 0 . 25 mg / kg twice daily .
May increase to 1 mg / kg once daily at bedtime or 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg per day 8 weeksb GE RD Birth to less than 3 months Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg once daily .
May increase to 1 mg / kg once dailyb Up to 8 weeksb , c , d 3 months to less than 1 year Starting dosage 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily .
May increase to 1 mg / kg twice dailyc Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations 1 year to less than 17 years 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg twice daily 6 to 12 weeksb 2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Adults with Renal Impairment Recommended dosage adjustments for adults with moderate to severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / min ) by indication are shown in Table 4 .
Use the lowest effective dosage [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
A safe and effective dosage has not been established in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
Table 3 : Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine for Oral Suspension in Adults with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment a Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens ( 20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily ) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
b The dosage required to treat pathological hypersecretory conditions may exceed the maximum dosage evaluated in patients with impaired renal function .
The risk for increased adverse reactions in renally impaired patients treated with famotidine for oral suspension for pathological hypersecretory conditions is unknown .
Indication Rec o m mended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL / minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute Active DU 20 mg once daily ; or 40 mg every other day 10 mg once daily ; or 20 mg every other day Active GU 20 mg once daily ; or 40 mg every other day 10 mg once daily ; or 20 mg every other day Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 10 mg once daily ; or 20 mg every other day Erosive esophagitis due to GERD , diagnosed by endoscopya 20 mg once daily ; or 40 mg every other dayb 40 mg once dailyb 10 mg once daily ; or 20 mg every other dayb 20 mg once dailyb Pathological hypersecretory conditions Avoid useb Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence 10 mg once daily ; or 20 mg every other day 10 mg every other day 2 . 4 Administration Instructions Preparation of Constituted Suspension by a Healthcare Provider Prior to Dispensing • Prior to dispensing , constitute famotidine for oral suspension by slowly adding 46 mL of Purified Water to the bottle .
Shake vigorously for 5 to 10 seconds immediately after adding the water .
• The constituted suspension contains 40 mg of famotidine per 5 mL , and should be a smooth , mobile , off - white , and homogeneous suspension .
Administration and Storage of Constituted Suspension • Shake the bottle of constituted famotidine for oral suspension vigorously for 5 to 10 seconds prior to each use .
• Take famotidine for oral suspension once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime , as recommended .
• Famotidine for oral suspension may be taken with or without food [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Famotidine for oral suspension may be given with antacids .
• Store the constituted suspension at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Discard unused constituted suspension after 30 days .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Oral Suspension : 400 mg as a white to off - white granular powder .
When constituted as directed , famotidine for oral suspension USP is a white to off - white granular powder forming an off - white suspension with characteristic odor , containing 40 mg of famotidine per 5 mL .
For oral suspension : 40 mg / 5 mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Famotidine for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to famotidine or other histamine - 2 ( H2 ) receptor antagonists .
History of serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to famotidine or other H2 receptor antagonists .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions : Elderly patients and patients with renal impairment at increased risk ; reduce the dosage .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) • GI Malignancy : Absence of GI symptoms does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy ; evaluate prior to initiating therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Central Nervous System Adverse Reactions Central nervous system ( CNS ) adverse reactions , including confusion , delirium , hallucinations , disorientation , agitation , seizures , and lethargy , have been reported in elderly patients and patients with moderate and severe renal impairment treated with famotidine .
Since famotidine blood levels are higher in patients with renal impairment than in patients with normal renal function , dosage adjustments are recommended in patients with renal impairment [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Concurrent Gastric Malignancy In adults , symptomatic response to therapy with famotidine for oral suspension does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Consider evaluation for gastric malignancy in adult patients who have a suboptimal response or an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with famotidine for oral suspension .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are : headache , dizziness , constipation , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of famotidine for oral suspension has been established based on adequate and well - controlled studies of another oral famotidine product [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
The following is a summary of the adverse reactions reported in those studies .
Oral famotidine was studied in 7 US and international placebo - and active - controlled trials in approximately 2500 patients [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 ) ] .
A total of 1442 patients were treated with famotidine , including 302 treated with 40 mg twice daily , 456 treated with 20 mg twice daily , 461 treated with 40 mg once daily , and 396 treated with 20 mg once daily .
The population was 17 to 91 years old , fairly well distributed between sex and race ; however , the predominant race was Caucasian .
The following adverse reactions occurred in greater than or equal to 1 % of famotidine - treated patients : headache , dizziness and constipation .
The following other adverse reactions were reported in less than 1 % of patients in clinical trials : Body as a Whole : fever , asthenia , fatigue Cardiovascular : palpitations Gastrointestinal : elevated liver enzymes , vomiting , nausea , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , dry mouth Hematologic : thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : orbital edema , rash , conjunctival injection , bronchospasm Musculoskeletal : musculoskeletal pain , arthralgia Nervous System / Psychiatric : seizure , hallucinations , depression , anxiety , decreased libido , insomnia , somnolence Skin : pruritus , dry skin , flushing Special Senses : tinnitus , taste disorder Other : impotence Pediatric Patients Less Than One Year of Age In a clinical study in 35 pediatric patients less than 1 year of age with GERD symptoms , two patients discontinued due to adverse reactions .
Agitation observed in 5 patients resolved when famotidine was discontinued [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of famotidine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , AV block , prolonged QT interval Gastrointestinal : cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis Hematologic : agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , leukopenia Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , angioedema , facial edema , urticaria Musculoskeletal : rhabdomyolysis , muscle cramps Nervous System / Psychiatric : confusion , agitation , paresthesia Respiratory : interstitial pneumonia Skin : toxic epidermal necrolysis / Stevens - Johnson syndrome 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption : Systemic exposure of the concomitant drug may be significantly reduced leading to loss of efficacy .
See full prescribing information for a list of interacting drugs .
( 7 . 1 ) • Tizanidine ( CYP1A2 ) Substrate : Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension , bradycardia or excessive drowsiness ; avoid concomitant use , if possible .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Famotidine can reduce the absorption of other drugs , due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity , leading to loss of efficacy of the concomitant drug .
Concomitant administration of famotidine for oral suspension with dasatinib , delavirdine mesylate , cefditoren , and fosamprenavir is not recommended .
See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption for administration instructions , including atazanavir , erlotinib , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ledipasvir / sofosbuvir , nilotinib , and rilpivirine .
7 . 2 Tizanidine ( CYP1A2 Substrate ) Although not studied clinically , famotidine is considered a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor and may lead to substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine , a CYP1A2 substrate .
Avoid concomitant use with famotidine for oral suspension .
If concomitant use is necessary , monitor for hypotension , bradycardia or excessive drowsiness .
Refer to the full prescribing information for tizanidine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric Use : Use the lowest effective dose for an elderly patient and monitor renal function .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 5 ) • Renal Impairment : Risk of CNS adverse reactions and QT prolongation in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment ; reduce the dosage in adults .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with H2 - receptor antagonists , including famotidine , in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse development effects were observed with oral administration of famotidine at doses up to approximately 243 and 122 times , respectively , the recommended human dose of 80 mg per day for the treatment of erosive esophagitis ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data : Reproductive studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at oral doses of up to 2000 and 500 mg / kg / day , respectively , and in both species at intravenous doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day , and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to famotidine .
While no direct fetotoxic effects have been observed , sporadic abortions occurring only in mothers displaying marked decreased food intake were seen in some rabbits at oral doses of 200 mg / kg / day ( about 49 times the recommended human dose of 80 mg per day , based on body surface area ) or higher .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are limited data available on the presence of famotidine in human breast milk .
There were no effects on the breastfed infant .
There are no data on famotidine effects on milk production .
Famotidine is present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for famotidine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from famotidine for oral suspension or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data : Transient growth depression was observed in young rats suckling from mothers treated with maternotoxic doses of famotidine at least 600 times the usual human dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Peptic Ulcer Disease and GERD With or Without Esophagitis and Ulcerations Pediatric Patients One Year to Less than 17 Years of Age : The safety and effectiveness of famotidine for oral suspension have been established in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 17 years of age for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations .
Use of famotidine in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults with additional pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 17 years of age [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of famotidine for oral suspension for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease in pediatric patients less than one year of age have not been established .
GERD Pediatric Patients Less Than One Year of Age : The safety and effectiveness of famotidine for oral suspension have been established in pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of GERD .
The use of famotidine this is age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults and with supportive data in pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) , CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 7 ) ] .
Other Conditions The safety and effectiveness for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions and reduction of risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence have not been established in pediatric patients .
A safe and effective dosage has not been established in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1442 famotidine - treated patients in clinical studies , approximately 10 % were 65 and older .
In these studies , no overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients .
In postmarketing experience , CNS adverse reactions have been reported in elderly patients with and without renal impairment receiving famotidine [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Famotidine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to famotidine for oral suspension may be greater in elderly patients , particularly those with impaired renal function [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
In general , use the lowest effective dose of famotidine for oral suspension for an elderly patient and monitor renal function [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment CNS adverse reactions and prolonged QT intervals have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The clearance of famotidine is reduced in adults with moderate and severe renal impairment compared to adults with normal renal function [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is needed in adults with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 60 mL / minute ) .
Dosage reduction is recommended in adults with moderate or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 60 mL / minute ) [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Data are not available to establish a safe and effective dosage in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE The types of adverse reactions in overdosage of famotidine are similar to the adverse reactions encountered with use of recommended dosages [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Unabsorbed material should be removed from the gastrointestinal tract , the patient should be monitored , and supportive therapy should be employed .
Due to low binding to plasma proteins , famotidine is eliminated by hemodialysis .
There is limited experience on the usefulness of hemodialysis as a treatment for famotidine overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in famotidine for oral suspension USP is a histamine - 2 ( H2 ) receptor antagonist .
Famotidine is N ' - ( aminosulfonyl ) - 3 - [ [ [ 2 - [ ( diaminomethylene ) amino ] - 4 - thiazolyl ] methyl ] thio ] propanimidamide .
The empirical formula of famotidine is C8H15N7O2S3 and its molecular weight is 337 . 45 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 5 mL of famotidine for oral suspension USP when prepared as directed contains 40 mg of famotidine and the following inactive ingredients : monohydrate citric acid , powdered cellulose , sucrose , xanthan gum and banana , cherry and peppermint wash flavor .
Added as preservatives are methylparaben sodium , propylparaben sodium and sodium benzoate .
Famotidine is a white to pale yellowish - white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in dimethyl formamide and glacial acetic acid ; slightly soluble in methanol ; very slightly soluble in water ; and practically insoluble in chloroform , ether and ethyl acetate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Famotidine is a competitive inhibitor of histamine - 2 ( H2 ) receptors .
The primary clinically important pharmacologic activity of famotidine is inhibition of gastric secretion .
Both the acid concentration and volume of gastric secretion are suppressed by famotidine , while changes in pepsin secretion are proportional to volume output .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Adults Famotidine inhibited both basal and nocturnal gastric secretion , as well as secretion stimulated by food and pentagastrin .
After oral administration of famotidine , the onset of the antisecretory effect occurred within one hour ; the maximum effect was dose - dependent , occurring within one to three hours .
Duration of inhibition of secretion by doses of 20 mg and 40 mg was 10 to 12 hours .
Single evening oral doses of 20 mg and 40 mg inhibited basal and nocturnal acid secretion in all subjects ; mean nocturnal gastric acid secretion was inhibited by 86 % and 94 % , respectively , for a period of at least 10 hours .
The same doses given in the morning suppressed food - stimulated acid secretion in all subjects .
The mean suppression was 76 % and 84 % , respectively , 3 to 5 hours after administration , and 25 % and 30 % , respectively , 8 to 10 hours after administration .
In some subjects who received the 20 mg dose , however , the antisecretory effect was dissipated within 6 to 8 hours .
There was no cumulative effect with repeated doses .
The nocturnal intragastric pH was raised by evening doses of 20 mg and 40 mg of famotidine to mean values of 5 . 0 and 6 . 4 , respectively .
When famotidine was given after breakfast , the basal daytime interdigestive pH at 3 and 8 hours after 20 mg or 40 mg of famotidine was raised to about 5 .
Famotidine had little or no effect on fasting or postprandial serum gastrin levels .
Gastric emptying and exocrine pancreatic function were not affected by famotidine .
In clinical pharmacology studies , systemic effects of famotidine in the CNS , cardiovascular , respiratory or endocrine systems were not noted .
Also , no anti - androgenic effects were noted .
Serum hormone levels , including prolactin , cortisol , thyroxine ( T4 ) , and testosterone , were not altered after treatment with famotidine .
Pediatric Patients Pharmacodynamics of famotidine , assessed by gastric pH , were evaluated in 5 pediatric patients 2 years to 13 years of age using the sigmoid Emax model .
These data suggest that the relationship between serum concentration of famotidine and gastric acid suppression is similar to that observed in adults ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Serum Concentrations of Famotidine Associated with Gastric Acid Reduction in Famotidine - Treated Pediatric and Adult Patientsaa Using the Sigmoid Emax model , serum concentrations of famotidine associated with 50 % maximum gastric acid reduction are presented as means ± SD .
EC50 ( ng / mL ) a Pediatric Patients 26 ± 13 Adults Healthy adult subjects 26 . 5 ± 10 . 3 Adult patients with upper GI bleeding 18 . 7 ± 10 . 8 In a study examining the effect of famotidine on gastric pH and duration of acid suppression in pediatric patients , four pediatric patients ages 11 to 15 years of age using the oral formulation at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg , maintained a gastric pH above 5 for 13 . 5 ± 1 . 8 hours .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Famotidine is incompletely absorbed .
The bioavailability of oral doses is 40 to 45 % .
Bioavailability may be slightly increased by food , or slightly decreased by antacids ; however , these effects are of no clinical consequence .
Peak famotidine plasma levels occur in 1 to 3 hours .
Plasma levels after multiple dosages are similar to those after single doses .
Distribution Fifteen to 20 % of famotidine in plasma is protein bound .
Elimination Metabolism : Famotidine undergoes minimal first - pass metabolism .
Twenty - five to 30 % of an oral dose was recovered in the urine as unchanged compound .
The only metabolite identified in humans is the S - oxide .
Excretion : Famotidine has an elimination half - life of 2 . 5 to 3 . 5 hours .
Famotidine is eliminated by renal ( 65 to 70 % ) and metabolic ( 30 to 35 % ) routes .
Renal clearance is 250 to 450 mL / minute , indicating some tubular excretion .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients : Infants from birth to 12 Months After a single oral dose administration of 0 . 5 mg / kg orally in patients from birth to 12 months , the bioavailability is approximately 42 % .
The AUC increased 1 . 4 - fold after single oral dose of 1 mg / kg compared to 0 . 5 mg / kg and 2 . 7 - fold after multiple oral doses of 1 mg / kg compared to 0 . 5 mg / kg .
Plasma clearance is reduced and elimination half - life is prolonged in pediatric patients from birth to 3 months of age compared to older pediatric patients .
Following intravenous administration of 0 . 5 mg / kg , CLTotal was 0 . 13 ± 0 . 06 L / hr / kg , 0 . 21 ± 0 . 06 L / hr / kg , and 0 . 49 ± 0 . 17 L / hr / kg in pediatric patients < 1 month of age , < 3 months of age , and > 3 to 12 months of age , respectively .
Elimination half - life was 10 . 5 hours , 8 . 1 hours , and 4 . 5 hours in pediatric patients < 1 month of age , < 3 months of age , and > 3 to 12 months of age , respectively .
Patients 11 Years to 15 Years The mean bioavailability in 8 pediatric patients was 50 % compared to adult values of 42 % to 49 % .
Pharmacokinetic parameters in pediatrics 11 years to 15 years is compared to infants from birth to 12 months in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single Oral Dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg in Infants and Pediatric Patients a arithmetic mean ± S . D . b median c observed minimum and maximum values d reported minimum and maximum values I nfants from Birth to 12 Months ( N = 5 ) Pediatric Patients 11 Years to 15 Years ( N = 8 ) AUC0 to ∞ ( ng * hr / mL ) a 645 ± 249 580 ± 60 Cmax ( ng / mL ) 79 . 2 97 . 3 Tmax ( hr ) b 2 . 0 ( 1 . 0 , 4 . 1 ) c 2 . 3 ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 9 ) d T1 / 2 ( hr ) 5 . 82 2 . 13 Patients with Renal Impairment : In adult patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) of famotidine increased at least 5 - fold .
In adult patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 30 to 60 mL / minute ) , the AUC of famotidine increased at least 2 - fold [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) , USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Human Organic Anion Transporter ( OAT ) 1 and 3 : In vitro studies indicate that famotidine is a substrate for OAT1 and OAT3 .
Following coadministration of probenecid ( 1500 mg ) , an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3 , with a single oral 20 mg dose of famotidine in 8 healthy subjects , the serum AUC0 to 10 h of famotidine increased from 424 to 768 ng • hr / mL and the maximum serum concentration ( Cmax ) increased from 73 to 113 ng / mL .
Renal clearance , urinary excretion rate and amount of famotidine excreted unchanged in urine were decreased .
The clinical relevance of this interaction is unknown .
Multidrug and Toxin Extrusion Protein 1 ( MATE - 1 ) : An in vitro study showed that famotidine is an inhibitor of MATE - 1 .
However , no clinically significant interaction with metformin , a substrate for MATE - 1 , was observed .
CYP1A2 : Famotidine is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenic potential of famotidine was assessed in a 106 - week oral carcinogenicity study in rats and a 92 - week oral carcinogenicity study in mice .
In the 106 - week study in rats and the 92 - week study in mice at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 243 and 122 times , respectively , based on body surface area , the recommended human dose of 80 mg per day for the treatment of erosive esophagitis ) , there was no evidence of carcinogenic potential for famotidine .
Famotidine was negative in the microbial mutagen test ( Ames test ) using Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli with or without rat liver enzyme activation at concentrations up to 10 , 000 mcg / plate .
In in vivo studies in mice , with a micronucleus test and a chromosomal aberration test , no evidence of a mutagenic effect was observed .
In studies with rats given oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 243 times , based on body surface area , the recommended human dose of 80 mg per day ) fertility and reproductive performance were not affected .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and effectiveness of famotidine for oral suspension have been established based on adequate and well - controlled studies of another oral famotidine product .
The following is a summary of the efficacy results reported in those studies .
14 . 1 Active Duodenal Ulcer In a U . S . multicenter , double - blind trial in adult outpatients with endoscopically confirmed duodenal ulcer ( DU ) , orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo .
As shown in Table 4 , 70 % of patients treated with famotidine 40 mg at bedtime were healed by Week 4 .
Most patients ' DU healed within 4 weeks .
Patients not healed by Week 4 were continued in the trial .
By Week 8 , 83 % of patients treated with famotidine had healed DU , compared to 45 % of patients treated with placebo .
The incidence of DU healing with famotidine was greater than with placebo at each time point based on proportion of endoscopically confirmed healed DUs .
Trials have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active DU for periods of more than 8 weeks .
Table 4 : Patients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Duodenal Ulcers ap < 0 . 001 vs . placebo Famotidine 40 mg at bedtime ( N = 89 ) Famotidine 20 mg twice daily ( N = 84 ) Placebo at bedtime ( N = 97 ) Week 2 32 % a 38 % a 17 % Week 4 70 % a 67 % a 31 % In this study , time to relief of daytime and nocturnal pain was shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; patients receiving famotidine also took less antacid than patients receiving placebo .
14 . 2 Active Gastric Ulcer In both a U . S . and an international multicenter , double - blind trials in patients with endoscopically confirmed active gastric ulcer ( GU ) , orally administered famotidine 40 mg at bedtime was compared to placebo .
Antacids were permitted during the trials , but consumption was not significantly different between the famotidine and placebo groups .
As shown in Table 5 , the incidence of GU healing confirmed by endoscopy ( dropouts counted as unhealed ) with famotidine was greater than placebo at Weeks 6 and 8 in the U . S . trial , and at Weeks 4 , 6 and 8 in the international trial .
In these trials , most famotidine - treated patients healed within 6 weeks .
Trials have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active GU for periods of more than 8 weeks .
Table 5 : Patients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Gastric Ulcers a p ≤ 0 . 01 vs . placebo b p ≤ 0 . 05 vs . placebo U . S . Study ( N = 149 ) International Study ( N = 294 ) Famotidine 40 mg at bedtime ( N = 74 ) Placebo at bedtime ( N = 75 ) Famotidine 40 mg at bedtime ( N = 149 ) Placebo at bedtime ( N = 145 ) Week 4 45 % 39 % 47 % a 31 % Week 6 66 % a 44 % 65 % a 46 % Week 8 78 % b 64 % 80 % a 54 % Time to complete relief of daytime and nighttime pain was statistically significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; however , neither trial demonstrated a statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients whose pain was relieved by the end of the trial ( Week 8 ) .
14 . 3 Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo in a U . S . trial that enrolled patients with symptoms of GERD and without endoscopic evidence of esophageal erosion or ulceration .
As shown in Table 6 , patients treated with famotidine 20 mg twice daily had greater improvement in symptomatic GERD than patients treated with 40 mg at bedtime or placebo .
Table 6 : Patients with Improvement of Symptomatic GERD ( N = 376 ) a p ≤ 0 . 01 vs . placebo Famotidine 20 mg twice daily ( N = 154 ) Famotidine 40 mg at bedtime ( N = 149 ) Placebo at bedtime ( N = 73 ) Week 6 82 % a 69 % 62 % 14 . 4 Erosive Esophagitis due to GERD Healing of endoscopically verified erosion and symptomatic improvement were studied in a U . S . and an international double - blind trials .
Healing was defined as complete resolution of all erosions visible with endoscopy .
The U . S . trial comparing orally administered famotidine 40 mg twice daily to placebo and orally administered famotidine 20 mg twice daily showed a significantly greater percentage of healing of erosive esophagitis for famotidine 40 mg twice daily at Weeks 6 and 12 ( Table 7 ) .
Table 7 : Patients with Endoscopic Healing of Erosive Esophagitis - U . S . Study ( N = 318 ) a p ≤ 0 . 01 vs . placebo b p ≤ 0 . 01 vs . famotidine 20 mg twice daily c p ≤ 0 . 05 vs . famotidine 20 mg twice daily Famotidine 40 mg twice daily ( N = 127 ) Famotidine 20 mg twice daily ( N = 125 ) Placebo twice daily ( N = 66 ) Week 6 48 % a , b 32 % 18 % Week 12 69 % a , c 54 % a 29 % As compared to placebo , patients in the U . S . trial who received famotidine had faster relief of daytime and nighttime heartburn , and a greater percentage of famotidine - treated patients experienced complete relief of nighttime heartburn .
These differences were statistically significant .
In the international trial , when orally administered famotidine 40 mg twice daily was compared to orally administered ranitidine 150 mg twice daily , a statistically significantly greater percentage of healing of erosive esophagitis was observed with famotidine 40 mg twice daily at Week 12 ( Table 8 ) .
There was , however , no significant difference in symptom relief among treatment groups .
Table 8 : Patients with Endoscopic Healing of Erosive Esophagitis - International Study ( N = 440 ) a p ≤ 0 . 05 vs ranitidine 150 mg twice daily Famotidine 40 mg twice daily ( N = 175 ) Famotidine 20 mg twice daily ( N = 93 ) Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily ( N = 172 ) Week 6 48 % 52 % 42 % Week 12 $ Unorderedlist 71 % a 68 % 60 % 14 . 5 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions In trials of patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions such as Zollinger - Ellison syndrome with or without multiple endocrine neoplasias , famotidine significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion and controlled associated symptoms .
Orally administered famotidine dosages from 20 mg to 160 mg every 6 hours maintained basal acid secretion below 10 mEq / hour ; initial dosages were titrated to the individual patient need and subsequent adjustments were necessary with time in some patients .
14 . 6 Risk Reduction of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Two randomized , double - blind , multicenter trials in patients with endoscopically confirmed healed DUs demonstrated that patients receiving treatment with orally administered famotidine 20 mg at bedtime had lower rates of DU recurrence , as compared with placebo .
• In the U . S . trial , DU recurrence within 12 months was 2 . 4 times greater in patients treated with placebo than in the patients treated with famotidine .
The 89 famotidine - treated patients had a cumulative observed DU recurrence rate of 23 % , compared to a 57 % in the 89 patients receiving placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
• In the international trial , the cumulative observed DU recurrence within 12 months in the 307 famotidine - treated patients was 36 % , compared to 76 % in the 325 patients who received placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Controlled trials have not extended beyond one year .
14 . 7 GERD in Pediatric Patients Less than 1 Year of Age In a double - blind , randomized , treatment - withdrawal study , 35 pediatric patients less than 1 year of age who were diagnosed with GERD , primarily by history of vomiting ( spitting up ) and irritability ( fussiness ) , were treated for up to 4 weeks with famotidine oral suspension 0 . 5 mg / kg or 1 mg / kg administered once daily for patients less than 3 months of age and administered twice daily for patients 3 months to less than 12 months of age .
Caregivers were instructed to provide conservative treatment including thickened feedings .
After 4 weeks of treatment , patients were randomly withdrawn from the treatment and followed an additional 4 weeks for vomiting ( spitting up ) , irritability ( fussiness ) and global assessments of improvement .
The study patients ranged in age at entry from 1 . 3 to 10 . 5 months ( mean 5 . 6 ± 2 . 9 months ) , 57 % were female , 91 % were white and 6 % were black .
Most patients ( 27 / 35 ) continued into the treatment - withdrawal phase of the study .
Most patients improved during the initial treatment phase of the study .
Results of the treatment - withdrawal phase were difficult to interpret because of small numbers of patients .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Famotidine for Oral Suspension USP is a white to off - white granular powder forming an off - white suspension with characteristic odor on constitution , containing 40 mg of famotidine per 5 mL .
The suspension is a cherry - banana - mint flavored .
50 mL NDC # 68180 - 150 - 01 Bottle containing 400 mg famotidine .
Prior to dispensing , constitute famotidine for oral suspension [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 3 ) ] Storage Store famotidine for oral suspension dry powder and constituted suspension at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Discard unused constituted suspension after 30 days .
Dispense in a USP tight , light - resistant container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions Advise elderly patients and those with moderate and severe renal impairment of the risk of CNS adverse reactions , including confusion , delirium , hallucinations , disorientation , agitation , seizures , and lethargy [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Report symptoms immediately to a healthcare provider .
QT Prolongation Advise patients with moderate and severe renal impairment of the risk of QT interval prolongation [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Report new cardiac symptoms , such as palpitations , fainting and dizziness or lightheadedness immediately to a healthcare provider .
Administration Advise patients to take and caregivers to administer : • Famotidine for oral suspension once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime , as recommended .
Advise patients and caregivers : • Famotidine for oral suspension may be taken with or without food .
• Famotidine for oral suspension may be given with antacids .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States .
Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa 403 722 India Revised : May 2020 ID # : 265065 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68180 - 150 - 01 Famotidine for Oral Suspension USP 40 mg / 5 mL 50 mL ( when reconstituted ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
