Code 1019A00 Rev . 09 / 06 1 - 0047 - 1 Rx only DESCRIPTION Each tablet of Equagesic , for oral administration , contains 200 mg meprobamate and 325 mg aspirin .
Chemically , meprobamate is 2 - methyl - 2 - propyl - 1 , 3 - propanediol dicarbamate .
Its molecular formula is C9H18N2O4 with a molecular weight of 218 . 25 .
Chemically , aspirin is benzoic acid 2 - ( acetyloxy ) - .
Its molecular formula is C9H8O4 with a molecular weight of 180 . 16 .
It occurs as an odorless white , needle like crystalline or powdery substance .
When exposed to moisture , aspirin hydrolyzes into salicylic and acetic acids , and gives off a vinegary odor .
It is highly lipid soluble and slightly soluble in water .
The structural formulas of meprobamate and aspirin are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The inactive ingredients present are D & C Yellow 10 , FD & C Red 3 , FD & C Yellow 6 , hydrogenated vegetable oil , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , and starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meprobamate is a carbamate derivative which has been shown ( in animal and / or human studies ) to have effects at multiple sites in the central nervous system , including the thalamus and limbic system .
Aspirin is a nonnarcotic analgesic with antipyretic and anti - inflammatory properties .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE As an adjunct in the short - term treatment of pain accompanied by tension and / or anxiety in patients with musculoskeletal disease .
Clinical trials have demonstrated that in these situations relief of pain is somewhat greater than with aspirin alone .
Equagesic is not intended for use longer than 10 days .
Contraindications Usage in Pregnancy and Lactation An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( meprobamate , chlordiazepoxide , and diazepam ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
Because of the known effect of non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of the ductus arteriosus ) , use during the third trimester of pregnancy should be avoided .
Salicylate products have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms , decreased birth weight , and perinatal mortality .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Meprobamate passes the placental barrier .
It is present both in umbilical - cord blood at or near maternal plasma levels and in breast milk of lactating mothers at concentrations two to four times that of maternal plasma .
When use of meprobamate is contemplated in breast - feeding patients , the drug ’ s higher concentrations in breast milk as compared to maternal plasma levels should be considered .
Equagesic is contraindicated in patients with acute intermittent porphyria and in patients with allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to aspirin , meprobamate , or related compounds , such as carbromal , carisoprodol , mebutamate , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug products , salicylates , or tybamate .
Equagesic is also contraindicated in patients with the syndrome of asthma , rhinitis , and nasal polyps .
The aspirin component of Equagesic may cause severe angioedema , bronchospasm ( asthma ) , or urticaria .
Reye ’ s syndrome : Aspirin should not be used in children or teenagers for viral infections , with or without fever , because of the risk of Reye ’ s syndrome with concomitant use of aspirin in certain viral illnesses .
WARNINGS Equagesic should be prescribed cautiously and in small quantities to patients with suicidal tendencies .
Additive Effects : Since CNS - suppressant effects of meprobamate and alcohol or meprobamate and other psychotropic drugs may be additive , appropriate caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these agents simultaneously .
Alcohol Warning : Patients who consume three or more alcoholic drinks every day should be counseled about the bleeding risks involved with chronic , heavy alcohol use while taking aspirin .
Coagulation Abnormalities : Even low doses of aspirin can inhibit platelet function leading to an increase in bleeding time .
This can adversely affect patients with inherited ( hemophilia ) or acquired ( liver disease or vitamin K deficiency ) bleeding disorders .
Gastrointestinal Side Effects ( GI ) : GI side effects include gross GI bleeding , heartburn , nausea , stomach pain , and vomiting .
Although minor upper GI symptoms , such as dyspepsia , are common and can occur anytime during therapy , physicians should remain alert for signs of ulceration and bleeding , even in the absence of previous GI symptoms .
Physicians should inform patients about the signs and symptoms of GI side effects and what steps to take if they occur .
Peptic Ulcer Disease : Patients with a history of active peptic ulcer disease should avoid using aspirin , which can cause gastric mucosal irritation and bleeding .
Potentially Hazardous Tasks Patients should be warned that meprobamate may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking this product .
PRECAUTIONS General Equagesic should be prescribed with caution in certain special - risk populations , such as elderly or debilitated patients and those with acute abdominal conditions , Addison ’ s disease , coagulation disorders , elevated intracranial pressure , head injuries , hypothyroidism , impairment of liver or kidney function , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture .
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidney .
To avoid its excess accumulation , caution should be exercised in the administration to patients with compromised liver or kidney function .
Meprobamate occasionally may precipitate seizures in epileptic patients .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that Equagesic contains aspirin and should not be taken by patients with an aspirin allergy .
Patients with a predisposition for gastrointestinal bleeding should be cautioned that concomitant use of medications containing aspirin and / or alcohol may have an additive effect in this regard .
Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme ( ACE ) Inhibitors : The hyponatremic and hypotensive effects of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to its indirect effect on the reninangiotensin conversion pathway .
Acetazolamide : Concurrent use of aspirin and acetazolamide can lead to high serum concentrations of acetazolamide ( and toxicity ) due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion .
Alcohol , General Anesthetics , Narcotic Analgesics , Sedative Hypnotics , Tranquilizers such as Chlordiazepoxide , or Other CNS Depressants : The effects of these substances may be enhanced , causing increased CNS depression .
Anticoagulant Therapy ( Heparin and Warfarin ) : Patients on anticoagulation therapy are at increased risk for bleeding because of drug - drug interactions and the effect on platelets .
Aspirin can displace warfarin from protein binding sites , leading to prolongation of both the prothrombin time and the bleeding time .
Aspirin can increase the anticoagulant activity of heparin , increasing bleeding risk .
Anticonvulsants : Salicylates can displace protein - bound phenytoin and valproic acid , leading to a decrease in the total concentration of phenytoin and an increase in serum valproic acid levels .
Beta Blockers : The hypotensive effects of beta blockers may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins , leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention .
Corticosteroids : In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of medications containing aspirin , withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance .
Diuretics : The effectiveness of diuretics in patients with underlying renal or cardiovascular disease may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins , leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention .
6 - Mercaptopurine and Methotrexate : Bone marrow toxicity and blood dyscrasia may result from displacing these drugs from secondary binding sites , and in the case of methotrexate , also reducing its excretion .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function .
Oral Hypoglycemics : Moderate doses of aspirin may increase the effectiveness of oral hypoglycemic drugs , leading to hypoglycemia .
Uricosuric Agents ( Probenicid and Sulfinpyrazone ) : Salicylates antagonize the uricosuric action , reducing their effectiveness in the treatment of gout .
Aspirin competes with these agents for protein binding sites .
Laboratory Test Interactions Aspirin may interfere with the following laboratory determinations in blood : blood urea nitrogen , cholesterol , elevated hepatic enzymes including aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , fasting blood glucose , hyperkalemia , prolonged bleeding time , protein , prothrombin time , serum amylase , serum creatinine , and uric acid .
Aspirin may interfere with the following laboratory determinations in urine : 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid , diacetic acid , Gerhardt ketone , glucose , proteinuria , uric acid , spectrophotometric detection of barbiturates , and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis Impairment of Fertility Administration of aspirin for 68 weeks at 0 . 5 percent in the feed of rats was not carcinogenic .
In the Ames Salmonella assay , aspirin was not mutagenic ; however , aspirin did induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human fibroblasts .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category X . See Contraindications Labor and Delivery Aspirin should be avoided during the third trimester of pregnancy and during labor and delivery because it can result in excessive blood loss at delivery .
Prolonged gestation and prolonged labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported .
Nursing Mothers Nursing mothers should avoid using aspirin because salicylate is excreted in breast milk .
Use of high doses may lead to rashes , platelet abnormalities , and bleeding in nursing infants .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( See also Contraindications ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established for pediatric patients under the age of 12 years ( See Contraindications ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of meprobamate with aspirin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Fever , hypothermia , thirst .
Allergic or Idiosyncratic Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioneurotic edema , anuria , asthma , bronchospasm , bullous dermatitis , chills , erythema multiforme , exfoliative erythroderma , laryngeal edema , oliguria , proctitis , purpura , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , stomatitis , and urticaria .
Milder reactions are characterized by an itchy , erythematous maculopapular , or urticarial rash which may be generalized or confined to the groin .
Other reactions have included acute nonthrombocytopenic purpura , adenopathy , cross - sensitivity between meprobamate / mebutamate and meprobamate / carbromal , ecchymoses , eosinophilia , fixed - drug eruption with cross - reaction to carisoprodol , leukopenia , peripheral edema , and petechiae .
Cardiovascular Various forms of arrhythmia , hypotension , palpitation , syncope , tachycardia , and transient ECG changes .
Central Nervous System Agitation , ataxia , cerebral edema , coma , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , dysphoria , euphoria , fast EEG activity , headache , impairment of visual accommodation , lethargy , overstimulation , paradoxical excitement , paresthesias , sedation , slurred speech , subdural or intracranial hemorrhage , seizures , vertigo , and weakness .
Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration , hyperkalemia , metabolic acidosis , and respiratory alkalosis .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , epigastric discomfort , gastric distress , gastrointestinal bleeding , heartburn , hepatitis , nausea , pancreatitis , Reye ’ s syndrome , transient elevations of hepatic enzymes , ulceration and perforation , and vomiting .
Hematologic ( see also “ Allergic or Idiosyncratic ” ) Agranulocytosis and aplastic anemia have been reported , although no causal relationship has been established , coagulopathy , disseminated intravascular coagulation , exacerbation of porphyric symptoms , hemolytic anemia , iron deficiency anemia , occult blood loss , prolongation of the prothrombin time , thrombocytopenia , and thrombocytopenic purpura .
Musculoskeletal Rhabdomyolysis Metabolism Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia Reproductive Prolonged pregnancy and labor , stillbirths , lower birth weight infants , and antepartum and postpartum bleeding .
Respiratory Acute airway obstruction , hyperpnea , pulmonary edema , and tachypnea .
Special Senses Hearing loss and tinnitus .
Urogenital Interstitial nephritis , papillary necrosis , proteinuria , and renal insufficiency and failure .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Physical dependence , psychological dependence , and abuse have occurred .
Chronic intoxication from prolonged ingestion of , usually , greater - than - recommended doses is manifested by ataxia , slurred speech , and vertigo .
Therefore , careful supervision of dose and amounts prescribed is advised , as well as avoidance of prolonged administration , especially for alcoholics and other patients with a known propensity for taking excessive quantities of drugs .
Sudden withdrawal of the drug after prolonged and excessive use may precipitate recurrence of preexisting symptoms , such as anorexia , anxiety , or insomnia , or withdrawal reactions , such as ataxia , confusional states , hallucinosis , muscle twitching , tremors , vomiting , and , rarely , convulsive seizures .
Such seizures are more likely to occur in persons with central nervous system damage or preexistent or latent convulsive disorders .
Onset of withdrawal symptoms occurs usually within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of meprobamate ; symptoms usually cease within the next 12 - to 48 - hour period .
When excessive dosage has continued for weeks or months , dosage should be reduced gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks rather than abruptly stopped .
Alternatively , a long - acting barbiturate may be substituted , then gradually withdrawn .
Overdosage Treatment of overdose with Equagesic is essentially symptomatic and supportive .
In cases where excessive doses of Equagesic have been taken , sleep ensues rapidly and blood pressure , pulse , and respiratory rates are reduced to basal levels .
Any drug remaining in the stomach should be removed and symptomatic treatment given .
After emesis and / or lavage , activated charcoal may reduce absorption of both aspirin and meprobamate .
Should respiration or blood pressure become compromised , respiratory assistance , central nervous system stimulants , and pressor agents should be administered cautiously as indicated .
Diuresis , osmotic ( mannitol ) diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , and hemodialysis have been used successfully in removing both aspirin and meprobamate .
Alkalinization of the urine increases the excretion of salicylates .
Careful monitoring of urinary output is necessary , and caution should be taken to avoid overhydration .
Relapse and death , after initial recovery , have been attributed to incomplete gastric emptying and delayed absorption .
Salicylate toxicity may result from acute ingestion ( overdose ) or chronic intoxication .
Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain , acid - base disturbances with development of metabolic acidosis , convulsions , delirium , hyperpnea , hyperthermia , hypoprothrombinemia , restlessness , Tinnitus ( ringing in the ears ) , and vomiting .
The early signs of salicylic overdose ( salicylism ) , including tinnitus , occur at plasma concentrations approaching 200 μg / mL .
Plasma concentrations of aspirin above 300 μg / mL are clearly toxic .
Severe toxic effects are associated with levels above 400 μg / mL .
A single lethal dose of aspirin in adults is not known with certainty but death may be expected at 30 g . For real or suspected overdose , a Poison Control Center should be contacted immediately .
Careful medical management is essential .
In acute aspirin overdose , severe acid - base and electrolyte disturbances may occur and are complicated by hyperthermia and dehydration .
Respiratory alkalosis occurs early while hyperventilation is present , but is quickly followed by metabolic acidosis .
Treatment of aspirin overdose consists primarily of supporting vital functions , increasing salicylate elimination , and correcting the acid - base disturbance .
Gastric emptying and / or lavage is recommended as soon as possible after ingestion , even if the patient has vomited spontaneously .
After lavage and / or emesis administration of activated charcoal , as a slurry , is beneficial , if less than 3 hours have passed since ingestion .
Charcoal adsorption should not be employed prior to emesis and lavage .
Severity of aspirin intoxication is determined by measuring the blood salicylate level .
Acid - base status should be closely followed with serial blood gas and serum pH measurements .
Fluid and electrolyte balance should also be maintained .
In severe cases , hyperthermia and hypovolemia are the immediate threats to life .
Children should be sponged with tepid water .
Replacement fluid should be administered intravenously and augmented with correction of acidosis .
Plasma electrolytes and pH should be monitored to promote alkaline diuresis of salicylate if renal function is normal .
Infusion of glucose may be required to control hypoglycemia .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis can be performed to reduce the body drug content .
In patients with renal insufficiency or in cases of life - threatening intoxication , dialysis is usually required .
Exchange transfusion may be indicated in infants and young children .
Suicidal attempts with meprobamate have resulted in ataxia , coma , drowsiness , lethargy , shock , stupor , and respiratory and vasomotor collapse .
Some suicidal attempts have been fatal .
The following data have been reported in the literature and from other sources .
These data are not expected to correlate with each case ( considering factors such as individual susceptibility and length of time from ingestion to treatment ) but represent the usual ranges reported .
Acute simple overdose ( meprobamate alone ) : Death has been reported with ingestion of as little as 12 grams meprobamate and survival with as much as 40 grams .
BLOOD LEVELS 0 . 5 to 2 mg percent represents the usual blood - level range of meprobamate after therapeutic doses .
3 to 10 mg percent usually corresponds to findings of mild to moderate symptoms of overdosage , such as stupor or light coma .
10 to 20 mg percent usually corresponds to deeper coma , requiring more intensive treatment .
Some fatalities occur .
At levels greater than 20 mg percent , more fatalities than survivals can be expected .
Acute combined overdose ( meprobamate with other CNS psychotropic drugs or alcohol ) : Since effects can be additive , a history of ingestion of a low dose of meprobamate plus any of these compounds ( or of a relatively low blood or tissue level ) cannot be used as a prognostic indicator .
Dosage and Administration The usual dosage of Equagesic is one or two tablets , each tablet containing meprobamate , 200 mg , and aspirin , 325 mg , orally 3 to 4 times daily as needed for the relief of pain when tension or anxiety is present .
Equagesic is not recommended for patients 12 years of age and under .
How Supplied Equagesic ® ( meprobamate and aspirin tablets ) Tablets , 200 mg meprobamate and 325 mg aspirin , are available as follows : NDC 10551 - 091 - 10 , pink and yellow , double - layer , round , scored tablet marked “ LP ” and “ 91 ” , in bottles of 100 tablets .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Keep tightly closed .
Protect from light .
Dispense in light - resistant , tight container .
Manufactured for : Leitner Pharmaceuticals ™ , LLC Bristol , TN 37620 www . leitnerpharma . com Manufactured by : Mikart , Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30318 1019A00 09 / 06 1 - 0047 - 1
