TEP Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : This package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Use Uses for Laxative • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • for this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings for this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a help professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • each teaspoon ( 5 grams ) contains : magnesium 495 mg soaking directions For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
DIRECTIONS : For a relaxing bath / soak , generously sprinkle Equate Epsom Salt into warm , running bath water CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a phsician .
Keep out of reach of children .
Adverse reactions section DISTRIBUTED BY : Walmart , Inc .
Bentonville , AR 72718 602 . 002 / 602 AA principal display panel NDC 49035 - 602 - 43 equate Epson Salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE USP MgSO4 - 7H2O Soaking aid for minor sprains and bruised Saline lazative for relief of occasional constipation NET WT 16 OZ ( 1 LB ) 454 g 1 lb [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
