Drug Facts Active ingredients Purposes Benzethonium chloride 0 . 2 % First aid antiseptic Benzocaine 20 % Topical analgesic Uses first aid for the temporary relief of pain and itching and to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns Warnings For external use only Flammable do not use near heat , flame , or fire or while smoking Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body When using this product • avoid contact with eyes .
Do not spray in the face or mouth .
• use only as directed • intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating or inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal • do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • itching , rash or irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the affected area Adults and children 2 years of age and older apply a small amount to affected area 1 to 3 times daily Children under 2 years of age consult a doctor • to use this product , hold the can 6 to 12 inches away from the affected area .
Direct spray nozzle towards skin and press button to activate spray .
• to apply to face , spray in palm of hand and gently apply Other information • avoid contact with leather , fabric and upholstery to prevent possible staining or discoloration • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel ( decolorized ) , cyclomethicone , dipropylene glycol , isobutane , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 73 % v / v ) , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E acetate ) Questions ?
1 - 800 - 345 - 0032 Mon - Fri 8 AM - 5 PM EST Dermoplast . com Distributed by Advantice Health , LLC Cedar Knolls , NJ 07927 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 78 g Can Label Dermoplast ® Antiseptic & Pain Relieving Spray HOSPITAL STRENGTH FIRST AID ANTIBACTERIAL SPRAY KILLS 99 % OF GERMS To Prevent Infection For Minor Cuts , Scrapes & Burns Disinfects Burns & Wounds Provides Fast Pain Relief Soothing Aloe & Vitamin E NET WT .
2 . 75 oz ( 78 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
