23 . 4 % 4 mEq / mL CONCENTRATED PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE — Not for Direct Infusion CONCENTRATED SOLUTIONS FOR USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION WITH COMPATIBLE IV FLUIDS TO CORRECT SODIUM DEFICIENCY WHEN ORAL REPLACEMENT IS NOT FEASIBLE .
DESCRIPTION Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution for intravenous administration ONLY AFTER DILUTION to replenish electrolytes .
The preparation contains 4 mEq / mL ( 23 . 4 % ) sodium chloride , in Water for Injection .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ; pH of the solution ranges from 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
Each mL contains : Sodium chloride 234 mg ; Water for Injection q . s . pH may have been adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
The osmolar concentration of the 4 mEq / mL solution is 8 mOsmol / mL ( calculated ) .
Sodium chloride is chemically designated NaCI , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
A pharmacy bulk package is a sterile dosage form containing many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for IV infusion .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( CI — ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of the total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 142 mEq / L .
While the sodium ion can diffuse across cell membranes , intracellular sodium is maintained at a much lower concentration than extracellular sodium through the expenditure of energy by the cell ( so - called ‘‘ sodium cation pump ’’ ) .
Loss of intracellular potassium ion is usually accompanied by an increase in intracellular sodium ion .
When serum sodium concentration is low , the secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) by the pituitary is inhibited , thereby preventing water reabsorption by the distal renal tubules .
On the other hand , adrenal secretion of aldosterone increases renal tubular reabsorption of sodium in an effort to reestablish normal serum sodium concentration .
Chloride ( CI — ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( CI — ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated for parenteral restoration of sodium ion in patients with restricted oral intake .
Sodium replacement is specifically indicated in patients with hyponatremia or low salt syndrome .
Sodium chloride injection may also be added to compatible carbohydrate solutions such as dextrose in water to provide electrolytes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium chloride injection is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium may result in sodium retention .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Sodium chloride injection must be diluted before infusion to avoid a sudden increase in the level of plasma sodium .
Too rapid administration should be avoided .
Special caution should be used in administering sodium containing solutions to patients with severe renal impairment , cirrhosis of the liver , cardiac failure , or other edematous or sodium - retaining states .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C — Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium chloride .
It is also not known whether sodium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None known .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium chloride injection is administered intravenously only after addition to a larger volume of fluid .
The dose , dilution and rate of injection are dependent upon the individual needs of each patient .
All or part of the contents of one or more additive containers may be added to an intravenous solution container .
Concentrations of up to 5 % sodium chloride have been administered .
DIRECTIONS FOR PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE Pharmacy Bulk Packages are for use in a pharmacy admixture service only in a laminar flow hood .
They should be inserted into the ring sling ( plastic hanging device ) provided and suspended as a unit in the laminar flow hood .
The container closure should be penetrated only one time utilizing a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured distribution of the contents .
Swab vial stopper with an antiseptic solution .
Insert the dispensing set into the vial using aseptic technique .
( See graphic illustration below . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Once the sterile dispensing set has been inserted into the container , withdrawal of the contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , if this is not possible , a maximum time of 4 hours from the initial entry may be allowed to complete fluid aliquoting / transferring operations .
Discard the container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is available in flip - top glass vials .
Product No .
NDC No .
% NaCI Na + mEq / mL CI – mEq / mL mOsmol / mL Fill Volume mL 88B1 63323 - 088 - 61 23 . 4 4 4 8 100 88B2 63323 - 088 - 63 23 . 4 4 4 8 200 Packaged in 20 and 10 vials per tray , respectively .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not permit to freeze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 45874 E Revised : March 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Sodium Chloride 200 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 088 - 63 88B2 Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Concentrated PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion 23 . 4 % ( 4 mEq / mL ) For IV Use Only After Dilution Rx only 200 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
