0 . 9 % DESCRIPTION Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution .
Each mL contains : Sodium chloride 9 mg ; Water for Injection , q . s . Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % contains no preservative or added buffer .
The osmolarity is 300 mOsmol per liter .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment ( 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) .
Sodium chloride occurs as colorless cubic crystals or white crystalline powder and has a saline taste .
Sodium chloride is freely soluble in water .
It is soluble in glycerin and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl , and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride comprises over 90 % of the inorganic constituents of the blood serum .
Both its ions are physiologically important .
Sodium , more than any other ion , determines the osmotic pressure of interstitial fluids and the degree of hydration of tissues .
When the intake of the chloride ion is less than is excreted , there is a relative increase in the blood bicarbonate level , producing the condition known as alkalosis .
Other symptoms of sodium chloride deficiency are nausea and vomiting and increased irritability of muscles , evidenced by cramps and possibly convulsions .
It is well known that excessive sweating will cause ‘‘ heatcramps , ’’ i . e . , muscle cramps in the abdomen and extremities , which can be completely relieved only by ingestion of a weak salt solution .
Approximately 25 % of the total body sodium is found in the bone .
The regulation of salt and water metabolism is governed by different mechanisms ; however , changes in the intake distribution and output of salt are , in health , associated with collateral shifts of water so that electrolyte concentrations are maintained within a narrow range .
In the presence of disease affecting the cardiovascular , hepatic or renal system or in certain endocrinologic disorders , changes in the rate of excretion of salt and water will disturb the homeostatic equilibrium .
Frequently , abnormalities in the metabolism of water or salt may occur as a result of vomiting , diarrhea , gastrointestinal suction and fever .
Excessive sweating will produce loss of water or salt , but since the electrolyte concentration is hypotonic , loss of water will predominate .
The normal salt intake ranges from 5 to 15 grams daily , most of which is excreted by the kidneys .
The control of water and salt excretion in urine is very intricate , involving filtration by the glomerulus and reabsorption by the tubules of approximately 99 % of the filtered load .
The actual quantities excreted depend on the requirements prevailing at the moment .
The finer adjustments of the tubular absorptive mechanisms are influenced by osmotic interrelationships between cell water , plasma and urine and by certain steroid hormones influencing electrolyte excretion and the posterior pituitary hormone regulating water excretion .
When food intake ceases or salt is withheld , the content of sodium chloride in urine diminishes rapidly so that the body stores are retained .
Similar renal retention of electrolyte occurs when salt is lost via gastrointestinal secretions through vomiting , etc .
In other conditions , such as congestive heart failure , cirrhosis , nephritis or hypersecretion of the adrenal cortical hormones , the kidney fails to eliminate sufficient sodium .
This results in retention of both salt and water , producing an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid , which may be effectively combatted by a sharp restriction of salt intake and use of a diuretic .
Depletion of body salt may be caused in many ways , one of which is too energetic treatment of fluid and sodium retention .
Besides this , diabetic acidosis , burns , excessive sweating with free drinking of water , repeated paracentesis for removal of ascitic fluid , adrenal cortical hypofunction and certain forms of nephritis , as well as abnormal losses of gastrointestinal secretions , will cause marked salt depletion .
With salt loss , there is a reduction of the osmotic pressure of the extracellular fluid ; the urine volume may be retained , but it is free of sodium chloride .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % preparations are indicated for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use as an irrigation solution as well as for use in flushing of intravenous catheters .
WARNINGS In flushing intravenous catheters with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , only a preservative - free formulation should be used .
Where a sodium chloride solution is required for preparing or diluting medications for use in newborns , only preservative - free Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be used .
PRECAUTIONS General Sodium chloride must be used with caution in the presence of congestive heart failure , circulatory insufficiency , kidney dysfunction or hypoproteinemia .
Excessive amounts of sodium chloride by any route may cause hypopotassemia and acidosis .
Excessive amounts by the parenteral route may precipitate congestive heart failure and acute pulmonary edema , especially in patients with cardiovascular disease and in patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin or drugs that may give rise to sodium retention .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
It is also not known whether Sodium Choride Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
OVERDOSAGE When used as a diluent , solvent , irrigation solution or intravascular flushing solution , this parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of sodium chloride or fluid overload except possibly in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is also indicated for use in flushing intravenous catheters .
Prior to and after administration of the medication , the intravenous catheter must be flushed in its entirety with 2 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % .
Use in accord with any warnings or precautions appropriate to the medication being administered .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % , is supplied as : Product No NDC No Strength 186100 63323 - 186 - 00 0 . 9 % 100 mL single dose vial with a tear - off seal , in packages of 25 .
Preservative free .
Discard unused portion .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 45786 C Revised : April 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Sodium Chloride 100 mL Single Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 186 - 00 186100 Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % 100 mL Single Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
