Contraindications , Pregnancy ( 4 ) Removed 9 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasms ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See Full Prescribing Information for complete boxed warning .
• Aurovela 24 Fe is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aurovela 24 Fe is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The efficacy of Aurovela 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of greater than 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
Aurovela 24 Fe is a combination of norethindrone acetate , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) The efficacy of Aurovela 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of greater than 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
( 1 , 8 . 8 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day for 28 days ( 2 . 1 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack ( 2 . 1 ) • Aurovela 24 Fe may be administered without regard to meals ( 12 . 3 ) 2 . 1 How to Start Aurovela 24 Fe Aurovela 24 Fe is available in a blister pack [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Aurovela 24 Fe may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception must be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take Aurovela 24 Fe Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of Aurovela 24 Fe Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • Aurovela 24 Fe active tablets are light yellow to yellow ( Day 1 to Day 24 ) .
• Aurovela 24 Fe inactive tablets are brown ( Day 25 to Day 28 ) .
Day 1 Start : • Take first light yellow to yellow active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses .
• Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 24 days .
• Take one brown inactive tablet daily for 4 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last inactive tablet ) .
Sunday Start : For each 28 - day course , take in the following order : • Take the light yellow to yellow active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Aurovela 24 Fe .
• Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 24 days .
• Take one brown tablet ( ferrous fumarate ) daily for the following 4 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
A scheduled period should occur during the 4 days that the brown tablets are taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet ) and additional non - hormonal contraceptive is not needed .
Switching to Aurovela 24 Fe from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to Aurovela 24 Fe Start Aurovela 24 Fe : ● Transdermal patch ● On the day when next application would have been scheduled .
● Vaginal ring ● On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled .
● Injection ● On the day when next injection would have been scheduled .
● Intrauterine contraceptive ● On the day of removal ● If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ’ s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack .
● Implant ● On the day of removal Starting Aurovela 24 Feafter Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , Aurovela 24 Fe may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if Aurovela 24 Fe is started immediately .
• If Aurovela 24 Fe is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient must use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of her first 28 - day course of Aurovela 24 Fe .
Second - trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start Aurovela 24 Fe following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of the patient ’ s first 28 - day course of Aurovela 24 Fe [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Starting Aurovela 24 Fe after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with Aurovela 24 Fe following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Aurovela 24 Fe [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Aurovela 24 Fe Tablets • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Take the next pill at the regular time and continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Back - up contraception is not needed • If two consecutive active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) must be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• If two consecutive active tablets are missed in Week 3 or Week 4 or three or more consecutive active tablets are missed at any time Day 1 Start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday Start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) must be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures must be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a light yellow to yellow tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Aurovela 24 Fe ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP and ferrous fumarate tablets ) is available in blister packs .
Each blister pack ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 light yellow to yellow , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge , uncoated ( active ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 64 ’ on other side and each containing 1 mg of norethindrone acetate USP and 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol USP .
• 4 brown , mottled , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with ' S ' on one side and ' 57 ' on other side and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate USP .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Aurovela 24 Fe consists of 28 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 24 light yellow to yellow tablets ( active ) , each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol USP .
• 4 brown tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) , each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Aurovela 24 Fe is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop Aurovela 24 Fe if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Aurovela 24 Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • Stop Aurovela 24 Fe if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• Stop Aurovela 24 Fe if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• If feasible , stop Aurovela 24 Fe at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during the following prolonged immobilization .
• Start Aurovela 24 Fe no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COCs and when restarting oral contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
• Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Aurovela 24 Fe in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Aurovela 24 Fe is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases per 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( greater than 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Aurovela 24 Fe can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure Aurovela 24 Fe is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Aurovela 24 Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking Aurovela 24 Fe develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Aurovela 24 Fe in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In a clinical trial of Aurovela 24 Fe , the frequency and duration of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting was assessed in 743 women ( 3 , 823 28 - day cycles ) .
A total of 10 subjects ( 1 . 3 % ) discontinued Aurovela 24 Fe , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Based on data from the clinical trial , [ 24 to 38 % ] of women using Aurovela 24 Fe experienced unscheduled bleeding per cycle in the six months of the trial .
The percent of women who experienced unscheduled bleeding tended to decrease over time .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use Aurovela 24 Fe may experience absence of withdrawal bleeding , even if they are not pregnant .
In the clinical trial with Aurovela 24 Fe , 31 to 41 % of the women using Aurovela 24 Fe did not have a withdrawal menses in at least one of 6 cycles of use .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiologic studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Aurovela 24 Fe if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Aurovela 24 Fe is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors 5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache • The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) were : headache , vaginal candidiasis , nausea , menstrual cramps , breast tenderness , mood changes , bacterial vaginitis , acne , and weight gain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of Aurovela 24 Fe was evaluated in 743 subjects who participated in an open - label , randomized , active - controlled , multicenter clinical trial of Aurovela 24 Fe for contraception .
This trial examined healthy , non - pregnant volunteers aged 18 to 45 years , who were sexually active and had a body mass index of less than or equal to 35 kg / m2 .
Subjects were followed for up to six 28 - day cycles providing a total of 3 , 823 treatment - cycles of exposure .
Common Adverse Reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % of all subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 743 women using Aurovela 24 Fe were the following , in order of decreasing incidence : headache ( 6 . 3 % ) , vaginal candidiasis ( 6 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 4 . 6 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 4 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness ( 3 . 4 % ) , mood changes ( including mood swings ( 2 . 2 % ) and depression ( 1 . 1 % ) , bacterial vaginitis ( 3 . 1 % ) , acne ( 2 . 7 % ) , and weight gain ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Among the 743 women using Aurovela 24 Fe , 46 women ( 6 . 2 % ) withdrew because of an adverse event .
Adverse events occurring in 3 or more subjects leading to discontinuation of treatment were , in decreasing order : abnormal bleeding ( 0 . 9 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 8 % ) , mood changes ( 0 . 8 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 0 . 4 % ) , increased blood pressure ( 0 . 4 % ) , and irregular bleeding ( 0 . 4 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use .
Figure 1 : Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Aurovela 24 Fe .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is difficult to reliably estimate their frequency or evaluate a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : chest pain , palpitations , tachycardia , angina pectoris , myocardial infarction .
Endocrine disorders : hypothyroidism , hyperthyroidism .
Eye disorders : blurred vision , visual impairment , transient blindness , corneal thinning , change in corneal curvature ( steepening ) .
GI disorders : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , constipation , pancreatitis .
Hepatobiliary disorders : cholelithiasis , cholecystitis , hepatic adenoma , hemangioma of liver .
Immune system disorders : anaphylactic reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and severe reactions with respiratory and circulatory symptoms .
Infections : vaginal infection .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : change in weight or appetite ( increase or decrease ) .
hypoglycemia , diabetes mellitus , anemia .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : myalgia .
Skin and subcutaneous disorders : alopecia , rash ( generalized and allergic ) , pruritus , skin discoloration , night sweats , swelling face or lips , hirsutism , skin burning sensation , erythema multiforme , erythema nodosum , hemorrhagic eruption .
Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness , migraine , hyperesthesia , paraesthesia , hypoaesthesia , somnolence , loss of consciousness , sensory disturbance .
Psychiatric disorders : mood swings , depression , insomnia , anxiety , suicidal ideation , panic attack , changes in libido , bipolar disorder , dissociation , homicidal ideation .
Renal and urinary disorders : pollakiuria , dysuria , cystitis - like syndrome .
Reproductive system and breast disorders : breast changes ( tenderness , pain , enlargement , and secretion ) , premenstrual syndrome , ovarian cyst , pelvic pain , ovarian cyst ruptured , pelvic fluid collection .
Vascular disorders : hot flush , thrombosis / embolism ( coronary artery , pulmonary , cerebral , deep vein ) , migraine , transient ischemic attack , ischemic stroke .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with oral contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
• Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes ( for example CYP3A4 ) may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives including phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between COCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Aurovela 24 Fe with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise use of another contraceptive method .
Aurovela 24 Fe can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no use for contraception in pregnancy ; therefore , Aurovela 24 Fe should be discontinued during pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to CHCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
Data Human Data Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to CHCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and / or metabolites are present in human milk .
CHCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established .
When possible , advise the nursing female to use other methods of contraception until she discontinues breastfeeding [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) . ]
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Aurovela 24 Fe and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Aurovela 24 Fe or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Aurovela 24 Fe have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same in postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Aurovela 24 Fe has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Aurovela 24 Fe has not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Aurovela 24 Fe has not been studied in women with renal impairment .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index The safety and efficacy of Aurovela 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Aurovela 24 Fe is a combination oral contraceptive for oral administration consisting of active tablets containing norethindrone acetate , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , and placebo tablets containing ferrous fumarate , which serve no therapeutic purpose .
• Each active light yellow to yellow tablet contains 1 mg norethindrone acetate USP and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol USP .
Inactive ingredients include compressible sugar , croscarmellose sodium , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone and vitamin E . • Each placebo brown tablet contains 75 mg ferrous fumarate , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , Nat spearmint FL SD # 11475 , povidone and sucralose .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Ferrous fumarate tablets are not USP for dissolution and assay .
The chemical name of ethinyl estradiol is 19 - nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol .
The molecular formula of ethinyl estradiol is C20H24O2 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of norethindrone acetate is 17 - hydroxy - 19 - nor - 17α - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one acetate .
The molecular formula of norethindrone acetate is C22H28O3 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Meets USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action CHCs prevent pregnancy primarily by suppressing ovulation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Aurovela 24 Fe .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norethindrone acetate appears to be completely and rapidly deacetylated to norethindrone after oral administration , because the disposition of norethindrone acetate is indistinguishable from that of orally administered norethindrone .
Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol are rapidly absorbed from Aurovela 24 Fe tablets , with maximum plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol occurring 1 to 4 hours postdose .
Both are subject to first - pass metabolism after oral dosing , resulting in an absolute bioavailability of approximately 64 % for norethindrone and 43 % for ethinyl estradiol .
The plasma norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol pharmacokinetics following single - and multiple - dose administrations of Aurovela 24 Fe tablets in 17 healthy female volunteers are provided in Figures 2 and 3 , and Table 3 .
Following multiple - dose administration of Aurovela 24 Fe tablets , mean maximum concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol were increased by 95 % and 27 % , respectively , as compared to single - dose administration .
Mean norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol exposures ( AUC values ) were increased by 164 % and 51 % respectively , as compared to single - dose administration of Aurovela 24 Fe tablets .
Steady - state with respect to norethindrone was reached by Day 17 and steady - state with respect to ethinyl estradiol was reached by Day 13 .
Mean SHBG concentrations were increased by 150 % from baseline ( 57 . 5 nmol / L ) to 144 nmol / L at steady - state .
Figure 2 .
Mean Plasma Norethindrone Concentration - Time Profiles Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Aurovela 24 Fe Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers Under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 .
Mean Plasma Ethinyl Estradiol Concentration - Time Profiles Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Aurovela 24 Fe Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers Under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 3 .
Summary of Norethindrone ( NE ) and Ethinyl Estradiol ( EE ) Pharmacokinetics Following Single - and Multiple - Dose Oral Administration of Aurovela 24 Fe Tablets to Healthy Female Volunteers Under Fasting Condition ( n = 17 ) Regimen Analyte Arithmetic Meana ( % CV ) by Pharmacokinetic Parameter Cmax ( pg / mL ) tmax ( hr ) AUC ( 0 − 24 ) ( pg / mL • h ) Cmin ( pg / mL ) t ½ ( hr ) Cavg ( pg / mL ) Day 1 ( Single Dose ) NE 8420 ( 31 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 33390 ( 40 ) -- -- -- EE 64 . 5 ( 27 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 465 . 4 ( 26 ) -- -- -- SHBG -- -- -- 57 . 5 ( 37 ) b -- -- Day 24 ( Multiple Dose ) NE 16400 ( 26 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 to 4 . 0 ) 88160 ( 30 ) 880 ( 51 ) 8 . 4 3670 ( 30 ) EE 81 . 9 ( 24 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 0 to 2 . 0 ) 701 . 3 ( 28 ) 11 . 4 ( 43 ) 14 . 5 29 . 2 ( 28 ) SHBG -- -- -- 144 ( 24 ) -- -- Cmax = Maximum plasma concentration tmax = Time of Cmax Cmin = minimum plasma concentration at steady - state AUC ( 0 − 24 ) = Area under plasma concentration versus time curve from 0 to 24 hours t ½ = Apparent first - order terminal elimination half - life Cavg = Average plasma concentration = AUC ( 0 – 24 ) / 24 % CV = Coefficient of Variation ( % ) SHBG = Sex Hormone Binding Globulin ( nmol / L ) a The harmonic mean ( 0 . 693 / mean apparent elimination rate constant ) is reported for t ½ , and the median ( range ) is reported for tmax .
b The SHBG concentration reported here is the pre - dose concentration .
Food Effect A single - dose administration of Aurovela 24 Fe tablet with food decreased the maximum concentration of norethindrone by 11 % and increased the extent of absorption by 27 % and decreased the maximum concentration of ethinyl estradiol by 30 % but not the extent of absorption .
Distribution Volume of distribution of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ranges from 2 to 4 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of both steroids is extensive ( greater than 95 % ) ; norethindrone binds to both albumin and SHBG , whereas ethinyl estradiol binds only to albumin .
Although ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , it induces SHBG synthesis .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
Ethinyl estradiol is also extensively metabolized , both by oxidation and by conjugation with sulfate and glucuronide .
Sulfates are the major circulating conjugates of ethinyl estradiol and glucuronides predominate in urine .
The primary oxidative metabolite is 2 - hydroxy ethinyl estradiol , formed by the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 .
Part of the first - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol is believed to occur in gastrointestinal mucosa .
Ethinyl estradiol may undergo enterohepatic circulation .
Excretion Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
Plasma clearance values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are similar ( approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg ) .
Steady - state elimination half - lives of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of Aurovela 24 Fe tablets are approximately 8 hours and 14 hours , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) ] 14 CLINICAL STUDIES In an active - controlled clinical trial , 743 women 18 to 45 years of age were studied to assess the efficacy of Aurovela 24 Fe , for up to six 28 - day cycles .
The racial demographic of women randomized to Aurovela 24 Fe was : 69 . 5 % Caucasian , 15 . 5 % African - American , 10 . 4 % Hispanic , 2 . 3 % Asian and 2 . 3 % Native American / Other .
Women with body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 35 mg / m2 were excluded from the study .
The weight range for those women treated was 90 to 260 pounds , with a mean weight of 147 pounds .
Among the women in the study randomized to Aurovela 24 Fe , 38 . 9 % had not used hormonal contraception immediately prior to enrolling in this study .
A total of 583 women completed 6 cycles of treatment .
There were a total of 5 on - treatment pregnancies among women aged 18 to 45 years in 3 , 565 treatment cycles during which no back - up contraception was used .
The Pearl Index for Aurovela 24 Fe was 1 . 82 ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 59 to 4 . 25 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied AurovelaTM 24 Fe is available in blister packs containing 28 tablets .
The Blister Packs are packed in pouches ( NDC 65862 - 934 - 87 ) and the pouches are packaged in cartons : Carton of 1 Pouch NDC 65862 - 934 - 87 Carton of 3 Pouches NDC 65862 - 934 - 88 Carton of 5 Pouches NDC 65862 - 934 - 58 Each blister pack ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 light yellow to yellow , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge , uncoated ( active ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 64 ’ on other side and each containing 1 mg of norethindrone acetate USP and 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol USP .
• 4 brown , mottled , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 57 ’ on other side and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate USP .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions • Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Counsel patients to read the FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Aurovela 24 Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Aurovela 24 Fe is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Aurovela 24 Fe instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Aurovela 24 Fe [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , must use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a light yellow to yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
PATIENT INFORMATION AurovelaTM 24 Fe ( aw - roh - vee - luh ) ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP and ferrous fumarate tablets ) What is the most important information I should know about Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Do not use Aurovela 24 Fe if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Aurovela 24 Fe is a birth control pill ( hormonal contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does Aurovela 24 Fe work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results from the clinical study , about 1 to 4 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Aurovela 24 Fe .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Do not take Aurovela 24 Fe if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • have liver problems , including liver tumors • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood If any of these conditions happen while you are taking Aurovela 24 Fe , stop taking Aurovela 24 Fe right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) when you stop taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Aurovela 24 Fe may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in Aurovela 24 Fe may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Aurovela 24 Fe may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well Aurovela 24 Fe works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of Aurovela 24 Fe ?
• Like pregnancy , Aurovela 24 Fe may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • leg pain that will not go away • sudden severe shortness of breath • sudden change in vision or blindness • chest pain • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of Aurovela 24 Fe ?
• headache • vaginal infections • nausea • menstrual cramps • breast tenderness • mood changes • acne • weight gain These are not all the possible side effects of Aurovela 24 Fe .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking Aurovela 24 Fe ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
Certain blood tests may be affected by Aurovela 24 Fe .
• Aurovela 24 Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store Aurovela 24 Fe ?
• Store Aurovela 24 Fe at room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Store away from light .
• Keep Aurovela 24 Fe and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Aurovela 24 Fe .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Aurovela 24 Fe for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Aurovela 24 Fe to other people .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about Aurovela 24 Fe .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Aurovela 24 Fe that is written for health professionals .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking Aurovela 24 Fe , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in Aurovela 24 Fe ?
Active ingredients : Light yellow to yellow pills : norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol Inactive ingredients : Light yellow to yellow pills : compressible sugar , croscarmellose sodium , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone and vitamin E . Brown pills : ferrous fumarate , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , Nat spearmint FL SD # 11475 , povidone and sucralose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Aurovela ™ 24 Fe ( aw - roh - vee - luh ) ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP and ferrous fumarate tablets ) Important Information about taking Aurovela 24 Fe • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your blister pack .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) , you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take Aurovela 24 Fe , talk to your healthcare provider .
• When you first start taking Aurovela 24 Fe , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see , What should I do if I miss any Aurovela 24 Fe pills ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken Aurovela 24 Fe according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking Aurovela 24 Fe .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 to 4 hours of taking a light yellow to yellow active pill , take another light yellow to yellow pill from your extra blister pack .
If you do not have an extra blister pack , take the next light yellow to yellow pill in your blister pack .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next blister pack the day after finishing your current blister pack .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms and a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking Aurovela 24 Fe at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms and spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe : • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your blister pack .
• Have backup contraception ( condoms and spermicide ) available and if possible , an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking Aurovela 24 Fe ?
If you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Aurovela 24 Fe .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe and you are switching from another birth control pill : • Start your new Aurovela 24 Fe pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • Start using Aurovela 24 Fe on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • Start taking Aurovela 24 Fe on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking Aurovela 24 Fe and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • Start taking Aurovela 24 Fe on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Aurovela 24 Fe .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , “ When should I start taking Aurovela 24 Fe ? ”
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
• If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill “ 1 ” that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order on the blister pack at the same time each day for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take Aurovela 24 Fe .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order of the blister pack , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
Instructions for using your blister pack : The Aurovela 24 Fe blister pack has 24 " active " light yellow to yellow pills ( with hormones ) to be taken for 24 days , followed by 4 " reminder " brown pills ( without hormones ) to be taken for the next 4 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Look for : • Where on the pack to start taking pills • In what order to take the pills .
Follow the arrows shown in Figure A . • The week numbers as shown in Figure A .
What if should I do if I miss any Aurovela 24 Fe light yellow to yellow pills ?
If you miss 1 light yellow to yellow pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 light yellow to yellow pills in a row in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 light yellow to yellow pills in a row in Week 3 or Week 4 , or you miss 3 or more light yellow to yellow pills in a row at any time , follow these steps : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• If you are a Sunday Starter : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you miss any of the 4 brown “ reminder ” pills in Week 4 , throw away the pills you missed and keep taking 1 pill each day until the pack is empty .
You do not need to use a back - up method of birth control .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 05 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mg / 20 mcg Pouch Label NDC 65862 - 934 - 87 28 Day Regimen AurovelaTM 24 Fe provides 24 days of active therapy AurovelaTM 24 Fe ( Norethindrone Acetate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP and Ferrous Fumarate Tablets ) 1 mg / 20 mcg Each light yellow to yellow tablet contains norethindrone acetate USP , 1 mg : ethinyl estradiol USP , 20 mcg ; each brown tablet contains ferrous fumarate USP , 75 mg .
Each pouch contains 24 light yellow to yellow tablets and 4 brown tablets .
This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Rx only This pouch contains one blister card of 28 tablets AUROBINDO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mg / 20 mcg Pouch Carton Label NDC 65862 - 934 - 58 28 Day Regimen AurovelaTM 24 Fe provides 24 days of active therapy AurovelaTM 24 Fe ( Norethindrone Acetate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP and Ferrous Fumarate Tablets ) 1 mg / 20 mcg This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
This carton contains 5 pouches .
Rx only Each pouch contains 1 blister card of 28 tablets .
AUROBINDO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
