Rx only DESCRIPTION ZIAC ® ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It combines two antihypertensive agents in a once - daily dosage : a synthetic beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent ( bisoprolol fumarate ) and a benzothiadiazine diuretic ( hydrochlorothiazide ) .
Bisoprolol fumarate is chemically described as ( ± ) - 1 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 1 - methylethoxy ) ethoxy ] methyl ] phenoxy ] - 3 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] - 2 - propanol ( E ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
It possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided as a racemic mixture .
The S ( - ) enantiomer is responsible for most of the beta - blocking activity .
Its empirical formula is ( C18H31NO4 ) 2 • C4H4O4 and it has a molecular weight of 766 . 97 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bisoprolol fumarate is a white crystalline powder , approximately equally hydrophilic and lipophilic , and readily soluble in water , methanol , ethanol , and chloroform .
Hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) is 6 - Chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
It is a white , or practically white , practically odorless crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water , sparingly soluble in dilute sodium hydroxide solution , freely soluble in n - butylamine and dimethylformamide , sparingly soluble in methanol , and insoluble in ether , chloroform , and dilute mineral acids .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and it has a molecular weight of 297 . 73 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each ZIAC ® - 2 . 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet for oral administration contains : Bisoprolol fumarate … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
2 . 5 mg Hydrochlorothiazide … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
6 . 25 mg Each ZIAC ® - 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet for oral administration contains : Bisoprolol fumarate … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 5 mg Hydrochlorothiazide … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
6 . 25 mg Each ZIAC ® - 10 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet for oral administration contains : Bisoprolol fumarate … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 10 mg Hydrochlorothiazide … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
6 . 25 mg Inactive ingredients include Corn Starch , Dibasic Calcium Phosphate , Hypromellose , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Polyethylene Glycol , Polysorbate 80 , and Titanium Dioxide .
The 10 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet also contains Colloidal Silicon Dioxide .
The 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet also contains Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , and Red and Yellow Iron Oxide .
The 2 . 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg tablet also contains Crospovidone , Pregelatinized Starch , and Yellow Iron Oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bisoprolol fumarate and HCTZ have been used individually and in combination for the treatment of hypertension .
The antihypertensive effects of these agents are additive ; HCTZ 6 . 25 mg significantly increases the antihypertensive effect of bisoprolol fumarate .
The incidence of hypokalemia with the bisoprolol fumarate and HCTZ 6 . 25 mg combination ( B / H ) is significantly lower than with HCTZ 25 mg .
In clinical trials of ZIAC , mean changes in serum potassium for patients treated with ZIAC 2 . 5 / 6 . 25 mg , 5 / 6 . 25 mg or 10 / 6 . 25 mg or placebo were less than ± 0 . 1 mEq / L .
Mean changes in serum potassium for patients treated with any dose of bisoprolol in combination with HCTZ 25 mg ranged from - 0 . 1 to - 0 . 3 mEq / L .
Bisoprolol fumarate is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoceptor blocking agent without significant membrane stabilizing or intrinsic sympathomimetic activities in its therapeutic dose range .
At higher doses ( ≥ 20 mg ) bisoprolol fumarate also inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors located in bronchial and vascular musculature .
To retain relative selectivity , it is important to use the lowest effective dose .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a benzothiadiazine diuretic .
Thiazides affect renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption and increase excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Natriuresis causes a secondary loss of potassium .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ZIAC In healthy volunteers , both bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide are well absorbed following oral administration of ZIAC .
No change is observed in the bioavailability of either agent when given together in a single tablet .
Absorption is not affected whether ZIAC is taken with or without food .
Mean peak bisoprolol fumarate plasma concentrations of about 9 . 0 ng / mL , 19 ng / mL and 36 ng / mL occur approximately 3 hours after the administration of the 2 . 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg , 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg and 10 mg / 6 . 25 mg combination tablets , respectively .
Mean peak plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations of 30 ng / mL occur approximately 2 . 5 hours following the administration of the combination .
Dose proportional increases in plasma bisoprolol concentrations are observed between the 2 . 5 and 5 , as well as between the 5 and 10 mg doses .
The elimination T1 / 2 of bisoprolol ranges from 7 to 15 hours , and that of hydrochlorothiazide ranges from 4 to 10 hours .
The percent of dose excreted unchanged in urine is about 55 % for bisoprolol and about 60 % for hydrochlorothiazide .
Bisoprolol Fumarate The absolute bioavailability after a 10 mg oral dose of bisoprolol fumarate is about 80 % .
The first pass metabolism of bisoprolol fumarate is about 20 % .
The pharmacokinetic profile of bisoprolol fumarate has been examined following single doses and at steady state .
Binding to serum proteins is approximately 30 % .
Peak plasma concentrations occur within 2 - 4 hours of dosing with 2 . 5 to 20 mg , and mean peak values range from 9 . 0 ng / mL at 2 . 5 mg to 70 ng / mL at 20 mg .
Once - daily dosing with bisoprolol fumarate results in less than twofold intersubject variation in peak plasma concentrations .
Plasma concentrations are proportional to the administered dose in the range of 2 . 5 to 20 mg .
The plasma elimination half - life is 9 - 12 hours and is slightly longer in elderly patients , in part because of decreased renal function .
Steady state is attained within 5 days with once - daily dosing .
In both young and elderly populations , plasma accumulation is low ; the accumulation factor ranges from 1 . 1 to 1 . 3 and is what would be expected from the half - life and once - daily dosing .
Bisoprolol is eliminated equally by renal and nonrenal pathways with about 50 % of the dose appearing unchanged in the urine and the remainder in the form of inactive metabolites .
In humans , the known metabolites are labile or have no known pharmacologic activity .
Less than 2 % of the dose is excreted in the feces .
The pharmacokinetic characteristics of the two enantiomers are similar .
Bisoprolol is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 II D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) .
In subjects with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min , the plasma half - life is increased approximately threefold compared to healthy subjects .
In patients with liver cirrhosis , the rate of elimination of bisoprolol is more variable and significantly slower than that in healthy subjects , with a plasma half - life ranging from 8 to 22 hours .
In elderly subjects , mean plasma concentrations at steady state are increased , in part attributed to lower creatinine clearance .
However , no significant differences in the degree of bisoprolol accumulation is found between young and elderly populations .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is well absorbed ( 65 % - 75 % ) following oral administration .
Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in patients with congestive heart failure .
Peak plasma concentrations are observed within 1 - 5 hours of dosing and range from 70 - 490 ng / mL following oral doses of 12 . 5 - 100 mg .
Plasma concentrations are linearly related to the administered dose .
Concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide are 1 . 6 - 1 . 8 times higher in whole blood than in plasma .
Binding to serum proteins has been reported to be approximately 40 % to 68 % .
The plasma elimination half - life has been reported to be 6 - 15 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated primarily by renal pathways .
Following oral doses of 12 . 5 - 100 mg , 55 % - 77 % of the administered dose appears in urine and greater than 95 % of the absorbed dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug .
Plasma concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide are increased , and the elimination half - life is prolonged in patients with renal disease .
Pharmacodynamics Bisoprolol Fumarate Findings in clinical hemodynamics studies with bisoprolol fumarate are similar to those observed with other beta - blockers .
The most prominent effect is the negative chronotropic effect , giving a reduction in resting and exercise heart rate .
There is a fall in resting and exercise cardiac output with little observed change in stroke volume , and only a small increase in right atrial pressure , or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure at rest or during exercise .
In normal volunteers , bisoprolol fumarate therapy resulted in a reduction of exercise - and isoproterenol - induced tachycardia .
The maximal effect occurred within 1 - 4 hours post - dosing .
Effects generally persisted for 24 hours at doses of 5 mg or greater .
In controlled clinical trials , bisoprolol fumarate given as a single daily dose has been shown to be an effective antihypertensive agent when used alone or concomitantly with thiazide diuretics ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
The mechanism of bisoprolol fumarate ’ s antihypertensive effect has not been completely established .
Factors that may be involved include : • Decreased cardiac output , • Inhibition of renin release by the kidneys , • Diminution of tonic sympathetic outflow from vasomotor centers in the brain .
Beta1 - selectivity of bisoprolol fumarate has been demonstrated in both animal and human studies .
No effects at therapeutic doses on beta2 - adrenoreceptor density have been observed .
Pulmonary function studies have been conducted in healthy volunteers , asthmatics , and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Doses of bisoprolol fumarate ranged from 5 to 60 mg , atenolol from 50 to 200 mg , metoprolol from 100 to 200 mg , and propranolol from 40 to 80 mg .
In some studies , slight , asymptomatic increases in airway resistance ( AWR ) and decreases in forced expiratory volume ( FEV1 ) were observed with doses of bisoprolol fumarate 20 mg and higher , similar to the small increases in AWR noted with other cardioselective beta - blocking agents .
The changes induced by beta - blockade with all agents were reversed by bronchodilator therapy .
Electrophysiology studies in man have demonstrated that bisoprolol fumarate significantly decreases heart rate , increases sinus node recovery time , prolongs AV node refractory periods , and , with rapid atrial stimulation , prolongs AV nodal conduction .
Hydrochlorothiazide Acute effects of thiazides are thought to result from a reduction in blood volume and cardiac output , secondary to a natriuretic effect , although a direct vasodilatory mechanism has also been proposed .
With chronic administration , plasma volume returns toward normal , but peripheral vascular resistance is decreased .
Thiazides do not affect normal blood pressure .
Onset of action occurs within 2 hours of dosing , peak effect is observed at about 4 hours , and activity persists for up to 24 hours .
CLINICAL STUDIES In controlled clinical trials , bisoprolol fumarate / hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 mg has been shown to reduce systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout a 24 - hour period when administered once daily .
The effects on systolic and diastolic blood pressure reduction of the combination of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide were additive .
Further , treatment effects were consistent across age groups ( < 60 , ≥ 60 years ) , racial groups ( black , nonblack ) , and gender ( male , female ) .
In two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials conducted in the U . S . , reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate 24 hours after dosing in patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension are shown below .
In both studies mean systolic / diastolic blood pressure and heart rate at baseline were approximately 151 / 101 mm Hg and 77 bpm .
Sitting Systolic / Diastolic Pressure ( BP ) and Heart Rate ( HR ) Mean Decrease ( Δ ) After 3 - 4 Weeks Study 1 Study 2 Placebo B5 / H6 . 25 mg Placebo H6 . 25 mg B2 . 5 / H6 . 25 mg B10 / H6 . 25 mg n = 75 150 56 23 28 25 Total ΔBP ( mm Hg ) - 2 . 9 / - 3 . 9 - 15 . 8 / - 12 . 6 - 3 . 0 / - 3 . 7 - 6 . 6 / - 5 . 8 - 14 . 1 / - 10 . 5 - 15 . 3 / - 14 . 3 Drug Effecta - / - - 12 . 9 / - 8 . 7 - / - - 3 . 6 / - 2 . 1 - 11 . 1 / - 6 . 8 - 12 . 3 / - 10 . 6 Total ΔHR ( bpm ) - 0 . 3 - 6 . 9 - 1 . 6 - 0 . 8 - 3 . 7 - 9 . 8 Drug Effecta - - 6 . 6 - + 0 . 8 - 2 . 1 - 8 . 2 a Observed mean change from baseline minus placebo .
Blood pressure responses were seen within 1 week of treatment but the maximum effect was apparent after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment .
Overall , significantly greater blood pressure reductions were observed on ZIAC than on placebo .
Further , blood pressure reductions were significantly greater for each of the bisoprolol fumarate plus hydrochlorothiazide combinations than for either of the components used alone regardless of race , age , or gender .
There were no significant differences in response between black and nonblack patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) is indicated in the management of hypertension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ZIAC is contraindicated in patients in cardiogenic shock , overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) , second or third degree AV block , marked sinus bradycardia , anuria , and hypersensitivity to either component of this product or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure In general , beta - blocking agents should be avoided in patients with overt congestive failure .
However , in some patients with compensated cardiac failure , it may be necessary to utilize these agents .
In such situations , they must be used cautiously .
Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blockers can , in some patients , precipitate cardiac failure .
At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure , discontinuation of ZIAC should be considered .
In some cases ZIAC therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs .
Abrupt Cessation of Therapy Exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some instances , myocardial infarction or ventricular arrhythmia , have been observed in patients with coronary artery disease following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta - blockers .
Such patients should , therefore , be cautioned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease , it may be advisable to taper therapy with ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) over approximately 1 week with the patient under careful observation .
If withdrawal symptoms occur , beta - blocking agent therapy should be reinstituted , at least temporarily .
Peripheral Vascular Disease Beta - blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised in such individuals .
Bronchospastic Disease PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC PULMONARY DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of the relative beta1 - selectivity of bisoprolol fumarate , ZIAC may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , the lowest possible dose of ZIAC should be used .
A beta2 agonist ( bronchodilator ) should be made available .
Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta - blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia , particularly tachycardia .
Nonselective beta - blockers may potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels .
Because of its beta1 - selectivity , this is less likely with bisoprolol fumarate .
However , patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia , or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents , should be cautioned about these possibilities .
Also , latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest and diabetic patients given thiazides may require adjustment of their insulin dose .
Because of the very low dose of HCTZ employed , this may be less likely with ZIAC .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism , such as tachycardia .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm .
Renal Disease Cumulative effects of the thiazides may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
In such patients , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
In subjects with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL / min , the plasma half - life of bisoprolol fumarate is increased up to threefold , as compared to healthy subjects .
If progressive renal impairment becomes apparent , ZIAC should be discontinued ( See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) .
Hepatic Disease ZIAC should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease .
Thiazides may alter fluid and electrolyte balance , which may precipitate hepatic coma .
Also , elimination of bisoprolol fumarate is significantly slower in patients with cirrhosis than in healthy subjects ( See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) .
Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma with or without Acute Myopia and Choroidal Effusions Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute angle - closure glaucoma and elevated intraocular pressure with or without a noticeable acute myopic shift and / or choroidal effusions .
Symptoms may include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated , the acute angle - closure glaucoma may result in permanent visual field loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
PRECAUTIONS General Electrolyte and Fluid Balance Status Although the probability of developing hypokalemia is reduced with ZIAC because of the very low dose of HCTZ employed , periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be performed , and patients should be observed for signs of fluid or electrolyte disturbances , i . e . , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , hypokalemia , and hypomagnesemia .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis when severe cirrhosis is present , during concomitant use of corticosteroids or adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia can provoke ventricular arrhythmias or sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by potassium supplementation or increased intake of potassium - rich foods .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than salt administration , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Parathyroid Disease Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides , and pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands , with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia , have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
Hyperuricemia Hyperuricemia or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide diuretics .
Bisoprolol fumarate , alone or in combination with HCTZ , has been associated with increases in uric acid .
However , in U . S . clinical trials , the incidence of treatment - related increases in uric acid was higher during therapy with HCTZ 25 mg ( 25 % ) than with B / H 6 . 25 mg ( 10 % ) .
Because of the very low dose of HCTZ employed , hyperuricemia may be less likely with ZIAC .
Drug Interactions ZIAC may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly .
ZIAC should not be combined with other beta - blocking agents .
Patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine or guanethidine , should be closely monitored because the added beta - adrenergic blocking action of bisoprolol fumarate may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity .
In patients receiving concurrent therapy with clonidine , if therapy is to be discontinued , it is suggested that ZIAC be discontinued for several days before the withdrawal of clonidine .
ZIAC should be used with caution when myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction , such as certain calcium antagonists ( particularly of the phenylalkylamine [ verapamil ] and benzothiazepine [ diltiazem ] classes ) , or antiarrhythmic agents , such as disopyramide , are used concurrently .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Bisoprolol Fumarate Concurrent use of rifampin increases the metabolic clearance of bisoprolol fumarate , shortening its elimination half - life .
However , initial dose modification is generally not necessary .
Pharmacokinetic studies document no clinically relevant interactions with other agents given concomitantly , including thiazide diuretics and cimetidine .
There was no effect of bisoprolol fumarate on prothrombin times in patients on stable doses of warfarin .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions .
Hydrochlorothiazide When given concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics .
Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of cholestyramine and colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption in the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 percent and 43 percent , respectively .
Corticosteroids , ACTH - Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium - generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with ZIAC .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs - In some patients , the administration of a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium sparing , and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when ZIAC and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
In patients receiving thiazides , sensitivity reactions may occur with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
Photosensitivity reactions and possible exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients receiving thiazides .
The antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in the post - sympathectomy patient .
Laboratory Test Interactions Based on reports involving thiazides , ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) may decrease serum levels of protein - bound iodine without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Because it includes a thiazide , ZIAC should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function ( see PRECAUTIONS - Parathyroid Disease ) .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Warn patients , especially those with coronary artery disease , against discontinuing use of ZIAC without a physician ’ s supervision .
Patients should also be advised to consult a physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs , or if they develop other signs or symptoms of congestive heart failure or excessive bradycardia .
Caution patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia , or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents , that beta - blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia , particularly tachycardia , and bisoprolol fumarate should be used with caution .
Patients should know how they react to this medicine before they operate automobiles and machinery or engage in other tasks requiring alertness .
Advise patients that photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to immediately consult their healthcare provider if visual field defects , decreased visual acuity , or ocular pain occur .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis ZIAC Long - term studies have not been conducted with the bisoprolol fumarate / hydrochlorothiazide combination .
Bisoprolol Fumarate Long - term studies were conducted with oral bisoprolol fumarate administered in the feed of mice ( 20 and 24 months ) and rats ( 26 months ) .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was seen in mice dosed up to 250 mg / kg / day or rats dosed up to 125 mg / kg / day .
On a body weight basis , these doses are 625 and 312 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg , or 0 . 4 mg / kg / day , based on 50 kg individuals ; on a body surface area basis , these doses are 59 times ( mice ) and 64 times ( rats ) the MRHD .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats , conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) , treated mice and rats with doses of hydrochlorothiazide up to 600 and 100 mg / kg / day , respectively .
On a body weight basis , these doses are 2400 times ( in mice ) and 400 times ( in rats ) the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg / day ) in ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) .
On a body surface area basis , these doses are 226 times ( in mice ) and 82 times ( in rats ) the MRHD .
These studies uncovered no evidence of carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in rats or female mice , but there was equivocal evidence of hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Mutagenesis ZIAC The mutagenic potential of the bisoprolol fumarate / hydrochlorothiazide combination was evaluated in the microbial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test , the point mutation and chromosomal aberration assays in Chinese hamster V79 cells , and the micronucleus test in mice .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in these in vitro and in vivo assays .
Bisoprolol Fumarate The mutagenic potential of bisoprolol fumarate was evaluated in the microbial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test , the point mutation and chromosome aberration assays in Chinese hamster V79 cells , the unscheduled DNA synthesis test , the micronucleus test in mice , and the cytogenetics assay in rats .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in these in vitro and in vivo assays .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( the Ames test ) ; in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations ; or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) test and in the mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide of 43 - 1300 µg / mL .
Positive test results were also obtained in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay , using an unspecified concentration of hydrochlorothiazide .
Impairment of Fertility ZIAC Reproduction studies in rats did not show any impairment of fertility with the bisoprolol fumarate / hydrochlorothiazide combination doses containing up to 30 mg / kg / day of bisoprolol fumarate in combination with 75 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide .
On a body weight basis , these doses are 75 and 300 times , respectively , the MRHD of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide .
On a body surface area basis , these study doses are 15 and 62 times , respectively , MRHD .
Bisoprolol Fumarate Reproduction studies in rats did not show any impairment of fertility at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day of bisoprolol fumarate , or 375 and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body weight and body surface area , respectively .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg / day , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Corresponding multiples of maximum recommended human doses are 400 ( mice ) and 16 ( rats ) on the basis of body weight and 38 ( mice ) and 3 . 3 ( rats ) on the basis of body surface area .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects ZIAC In rats , the bisoprolol fumarate / hydrochlorothiazide ( B / H ) combination was not teratogenic at doses up to 51 . 4 mg / kg / day of bisoprolol fumarate in combination with 128 . 6 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide .
Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide doses used in the rat study are , as multiples of the MRHD in the combination , 129 and 514 times greater , respectively , on a body weight basis , and 26 and 106 times greater , respectively , on the basis of body surface area .
The drug combination was maternotoxic ( decreased body weight and food consumption ) at B5 . 7 / H14 . 3 ( mg / kg / day ) and higher , and fetotoxic ( increased late resorptions ) at B17 . 1 / H42 . 9 ( mg / kg / day ) and higher .
Maternotoxicity was present at 14 / 57 times the MRHD of B / H , respectively , on a body weight basis , and 3 / 12 times the MRHD of B / H doses , respectively , on the basis of body surface area .
Fetotoxicity was present at 43 / 172 times the MRHD of B / H , respectively , on a body weight basis , and 9 / 35 times the MRHD of B / H doses , respectively , on the basis of body surface area .
In rabbits , the B / H combination was not teratogenic at doses of B10 / H25 ( mg / kg / day ) .
Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide used in the rabbit study were not teratogenic at 25 / 100 times the B / H MRHD , respectively , on a body weight basis , and 10 / 40 times the B / H MRHD , respectively , on the basis of body surface area .
The drug combination was maternotoxic ( decreased body weight ) at B1 / H2 . 5 ( mg / kg / day ) and higher , and fetotoxic ( increased resorptions ) at B10 / H25 ( mg / kg / day ) .
The multiples of the MRHD for the B / H combination that were maternotoxic are , respectively , 2 . 5 / 10 ( on the basis of body weight ) and 1 / 4 ( on the basis of body surface area ) , and for fetotoxicity were , respectively 25 / 100 ( on the basis of body weight ) and 10 / 40 ( on the basis of body surface area ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with ZIAC in pregnant women .
ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Bisoprolol Fumarate In rats , bisoprolol fumarate was not teratogenic at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day , which were 375 and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body weight and body surface area , respectively .
Bisoprolol fumarate was fetotoxic ( increased late resorptions ) at 50 mg / kg / day and maternotoxic ( decreased food intake and body weight gain ) at 150 mg / kg / day .
The fetotoxicity in rats occurred at 125 times the MRHD on a body weight basis and 26 times the MRHD on the basis of body surface area .
The maternotoxicity occurred at 375 times the MRHD on a body weight basis and 77 times the MRHD on the basis of body surface area .
In rabbits , bisoprolol fumarate was not teratogenic at doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day , which is 31 and 12 times the MRHD based on body weight and body surface area , respectively , but was embryolethal ( increased early resorptions ) at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively .
At these doses , which are multiples of the MRHD equal to 12 , 000 for mice and 4000 for rats , based on body weight , and equal to 1129 for mice and 824 for rats , based on body surface area , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in the cord blood .
The use of thiazides in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus .
These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , pancreatitis , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in the adult .
Nursing Mothers Bisoprolol fumarate alone or in combination with HCTZ has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Thiazides are excreted in human breast milk .
Small amounts of bisoprolol fumarate ( < 2 % of the dose ) have been detected in the milk of lactating rats .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ZIAC in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use In clinical trials , at least 270 patients treated with bisoprolol fumarate plus HCTZ were 60 years of age or older .
HCTZ added significantly to the antihypertensive effect of bisoprolol in elderly hypertensive patients .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ZIAC Bisoprolol fumarate / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg is well tolerated in most patients .
Most adverse effects ( AEs ) have been mild and transient .
In more than 65 , 000 patients treated worldwide with bisoprolol fumarate , occurrences of bronchospasm have been rare .
Discontinuation rates for AEs were similar for bisoprolol fumarate / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg and placebo - treated patients .
In the United States , 252 patients received bisoprolol fumarate ( 2 . 5 , 5 , 10 , or 40 mg ) / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg and 144 patients received placebo in two controlled trials .
In Study 1 , bisoprolol fumarate 5 / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg was administered for 4 weeks .
In Study 2 , bisoprolol fumarate 2 . 5 , 10 , or 40 / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg was administered for 12 weeks .
All adverse experiences , whether drug related or not , and drug related adverse experiences in patients treated with bisoprolol fumarate 2 . 5 - 10 / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg , reported during comparable , 4 - week treatment periods by at least 2 % of bisoprolol fumarate / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg - treated patients ( plus additional selected adverse experiences ) are presented in the following table : % of Patients with Adverse Experiencesa Body System / Adverse Experience All Adverse Experiences Drug Related Adverse Experiences Placebob B2 . 5 - 40 / H6 . 25 b Placebob B2 . 5 - 10 / H6 . 25 b ( n = 144 ) ( n = 252 ) ( n = 144 ) ( n = 221 ) % % % % Cardiovascular bradycardia 0 . 7 1 . 1 0 . 7 0 . 9 arrhythmia 1 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 peripheral ischemia 0 . 9 0 . 7 0 . 9 0 . 4 chest pain 0 . 7 1 . 8 0 . 7 0 . 9 Respiratory bronchospasm 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 cough 1 . 0 2 . 2 0 . 7 1 . 5 rhinitis 2 . 0 0 . 7 0 . 7 0 . 9 URI 2 . 3 2 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 Body as a Whole asthenia 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 fatigue 2 . 7 4 . 6 1 . 7 3 . 0 peripheral edema 0 . 7 1 . 1 0 . 7 0 . 9 Central Nervous System dizziness 1 . 8 5 . 1 1 . 8 3 . 2 headache 4 . 7 4 . 5 2 . 7 0 . 4 Musculoskeletal muscle cramps 0 . 7 1 . 2 0 . 7 1 . 1 myalgia 1 . 4 2 . 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 Psychiatric insomnia 2 . 4 1 . 1 2 . 0 1 . 2 somnolence 0 . 7 1 . 1 0 . 7 0 . 9 loss of libido 1 . 2 0 . 4 1 . 2 0 . 4 impotence 0 . 7 1 . 1 0 . 7 1 . 1 Gastrointestinal diarrhea 1 . 4 4 . 3 1 . 2 1 . 1 nausea 0 . 9 1 . 1 0 . 9 0 . 9 dyspepsia 0 . 7 1 . 2 0 . 7 0 . 9 a Averages adjusted to combine across studies .
b Combined across studies .
Other adverse experiences that have been reported with the individual components are listed below .
Bisoprolol Fumarate In clinical trials worldwide , or in postmarketing experience , a variety of other AEs , in addition to those listed above , have been reported .
While in many cases it is not known whether a causal relationship exists between bisoprolol and these AEs , they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship .
Central Nervous System Unsteadiness , dizziness , vertigo , headache , syncope , paresthesia , hypoesthesia , hyperesthesia , sleep disturbance / vivid dreams , insomnia , somnolence , depression , anxiety / restlessness , decreased concentration / memory .
Cardiovascular Bradycardia , palpitations and other rhythm disturbances , cold extremities , claudication , hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , chest pain , congestive heart failure , dyspnea on exertion .
Gastrointestinal Gastric / epigastric / abdominal pain , peptic ulcer , gastritis , dyspepsia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation , dry mouth .
Musculoskeletal Arthralgia , muscle / joint pain , back / neck pain , muscle cramps , twitching / tremor .
Skin Rash , acne , eczema , psoriasis , skin irritation , pruritus , purpura , flushing , sweating , alopecia , dermatitis , exfoliative dermatitis ( very rarely ) , cutaneous vasculitis .
Special Senses Visual disturbances , ocular pain / pressure , abnormal lacrimation , tinnitus , decreased hearing , earache , taste abnormalities .
Metabolic Gout .
Respiratory Asthma , bronchospasm , bronchitis , dyspnea , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis , URI ( upper respiratory infection ) .
Genitourinary Decreased libido / impotence , Peyronie ’ s disease ( very rarely ) , cystitis , renal colic , polyuria .
General Fatigue , asthenia , chest pain , malaise , edema , weight gain , angioedema .
In addition , a variety of adverse effects have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse effects : Central Nervous System Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , hallucinations , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation to time and place , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium .
Allergic Fever , combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Hematologic Agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia .
Gastrointestinal Mesenteric arterial thrombosis and ischemic colitis .
Miscellaneous The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with bisoprolol fumarate during investigational use or extensive foreign marketing experience .
Hydrochlorothiazide The following adverse experiences , in addition to those listed in the above table , have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide ( generally with doses of 25 mg or greater ) .
General Weakness .
Central Nervous System Vertigo , paresthesia , restlessness .
Cardiovascular Orthostatic hypotension ( may be potentiated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics ) .
Gastrointestinal Anorexia , gastric irritation , cramping , constipation , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , pancreatitis , cholecystitis , sialadenitis , dry mouth .
Musculoskeletal Muscle spasm .
Hypersensitive Reactions Purpura , photosensitivity , rash , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions .
Special Senses Transient blurred vision , choroidal effusion , xanthopsia .
Metabolic Gout .
Genitourinary Sexual dysfunction , renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis .
Skin Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Postmarketing Experience Non - melanoma Skin Cancer Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
Laboratory Abnormalities ZIAC Because of the low dose of hydrochlorothiazide in ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) , adverse metabolic effects with bisoprolol fumarate / HCTZ 6 . 25 mg are less frequent and of smaller magnitude than with HCTZ 25 mg .
Laboratory data on serum potassium from the U . S . placebo - controlled trials are shown in the following table : Serum Potassium Data from U . S . Placebo Controlled Studies Placeboa B2 . 5 / H6 . 25 mg B5 / H6 . 25 mg B10 / H6 . 25 mg HCTZ 25 mga ( N = 130 b ) ( N = 28 b ) ( N = 149 b ) ( N = 28 b ) ( N = 142 b ) Potassium Mean Changec ( mEq / L ) + 0 . 04 + 0 . 11 - 0 . 08 0 . 00 - 0 . 30 % Hypokalemiad 0 . 0 % 0 . 0 % 0 . 7 % 0 . 0 % 5 . 5 % a Combined across studies .
b Patients with normal serum potassium at baseline .
c Mean change from baseline at Week 4 .
d Percentage of patients with abnormality at Week 4 .
Treatment with both beta blockers and thiazide diuretics is associated with increases in uric acid .
However , the magnitude of the change in patients treated with B / H 6 . 25 mg was smaller than in patients treated with HCTZ 25 mg .
Mean increases in serum triglycerides were observed in patients treated with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 mg .
Total cholesterol was generally unaffected , but small decreases in HDL cholesterol were noted .
Other laboratory abnormalities that have been reported with the individual components are listed below .
Bisoprolol Fumarate In clinical trials , the most frequently reported laboratory change was an increase in serum triglycerides , but this was not a consistent finding .
Sporadic liver test abnormalities have been reported .
In the U . S . controlled trials experience with bisoprolol fumarate treatment for 4 - 12 weeks , the incidence of concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT from 1 to 2 times normal was 3 . 9 % , compared to 2 . 5 % for placebo .
No patient had concomitant elevations greater than twice normal .
In the long - term , uncontrolled experience with bisoprolol fumarate treatment for 6 - 18 months , the incidence of one or more concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT from 1 to 2 times normal was 6 . 2 % .
The incidence of multiple occurrences was 1 . 9 % .
For concomitant elevations in SGOT and SGPT of greater than twice normal , the incidence was 1 . 5 % .
The incidence of multiple occurrences was 0 . 3 % .
In many cases these elevations were attributed to underlying disorders , or resolved during continued treatment with bisoprolol fumarate .
Other laboratory changes included small increases in uric acid , creatinine , BUN , serum potassium , glucose , and phosphorus and decreases in WBC and platelets .
There have been occasional reports of eosinophilia .
These were generally not of clinical importance and rarely resulted in discontinuation of bisoprolol fumarate .
As with other beta - blockers , ANA conversions have also been reported on bisoprolol fumarate .
About 15 % of patients in long - term studies converted to a positive titer , although about one - third of these patients subsequently reconverted to a negative titer while on continued therapy .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia , hypokalemia and other electrolyte imbalances ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyperlipidemia , hypercalcemia , leukopenia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , aplastic anemia , and hemolytic anemia have been associated with HCTZ therapy .
OVERDOSAGE There are limited data on overdose with ZIAC .
However , several cases of overdose with bisoprolol fumarate have been reported ( maximum : 2000 mg ) .
Bradycardia and / or hypotension were noted .
Sympathomimetic agents were given in some cases , and all patients recovered .
The most frequently observed signs expected with overdosage of a beta - blocker are bradycardia and hypotension .
Lethargy is also common , and with severe overdoses , delirium , coma , convulsions , and respiratory arrest have been reported to occur .
Congestive heart failure , bronchospasm , and hypoglycemia may occur , particularly in patients with underlying conditions .
With thiazide diuretics , acute intoxication is rare .
The most prominent feature of overdose is acute loss of fluid and electrolytes .
Signs and symptoms include cardiovascular ( tachycardia , hypotension , shock ) , neuromuscular ( weakness , confusion , dizziness , cramps of the calf muscles , paresthesia , fatigue , impairment of consciousness ) , gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , thirst ) , renal ( polyuria , oliguria , or anuria [ due to hemoconcentration ] ) , and laboratory findings ( hypokalemia , hyponatremia , hypochloremia , alkalosis , increased BUN [ especially in patients with renal insufficiency ] ) .
If overdosage of ZIAC ( bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide ) is suspected , therapy with ZIAC should be discontinued and the patient observed closely .
Treatment is symptomatic and supportive ; there is no specific antidote .
Limited data suggest bisoprolol fumarate is not dialyzable ; similarly , there is no indication that hydrochlorothiazide is dialyzable .
Suggested general measures include induction of emesis and / or gastric lavage , administration of activated charcoal , respiratory support , correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , and treatment of convulsions .
Based on the expected pharmacologic actions and recommendations for other beta - blockers and hydrochlorothiazide , the following measures should be considered when clinically warranted : Bradycardia Administer IV atropine .
If the response is inadequate , isoproterenol or another agent with positive chronotropic properties may be given cautiously .
Under some circumstances , transvenous pacemaker insertion may be necessary .
Hypotension , Shock The patient ’ s legs should be elevated .
IV fluids should be administered and lost electrolytes ( potassium , sodium ) replaced .
Intravenous glucagon may be useful .
Vasopressors should be considered .
Heart Block ( second or third degree ) Patients should be carefully monitored and treated with isoproterenol infusion or transvenous cardiac pacemaker insertion , as appropriate .
Congestive Heart Failure Initiate conventional therapy ( ie , digitalis , diuretics , vasodilating agents , inotropic agents ) .
Bronchospasm Administer a bronchodilator such as isoproterenol and / or aminophylline .
Hypoglycemia Administer IV glucose .
Surveillance Fluid and electrolyte balance ( especially serum potassium ) and renal function should be monitored until normalized .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Bisoprolol is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 2 . 5 to 40 mg , while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 to 50 mg .
In clinical trials of bisoprolol / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using bisoprolol doses of 2 . 5 to 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 to 25 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing doses of either component .
The adverse effects ( see WARNINGS ) of bisoprolol are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily bradycardia , diarrhea , asthenia , and fatigue ) and dose - independent phenomena ( eg , occasional rash ) ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( eg , possibly pancreatitis ) ; the dose - dependent phenomena for each being much more common than the dose - independent phenomena .
The latter consist of those few that are truly idiosyncratic in nature or those that occur with such low frequency that a dose relationship may be difficult to discern .
Therapy with a combination of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent adverse effects , and to minimize these , it may be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
On the other hand , regimens that combine low doses of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide should produce minimal dose - dependent adverse effects , eg , bradycardia , diarrhea , asthenia and fatigue , and minimal dose - dependent adverse metabolic effects , ie , decreases in serum potassium ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Therapy Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with 2 . 5 - 20 mg bisoprolol daily may instead be given ZIAC .
Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide daily , but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen , may achieve similar blood pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to ZIAC .
Initial Therapy Antihypertensive therapy may be initiated with the lowest dose of ZIAC , one 2 . 5 / 6 . 25 mg tablet once daily .
Subsequent titration ( 14 - day intervals ) may be carried out with ZIAC tablets up to the maximum recommended dose 20 / 12 . 5 mg ( two 10 / 6 . 25 mg tablets ) once daily , as appropriate .
Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components .
Cessation of Therapy If withdrawal of ZIAC therapy is planned , it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks .
Patients should be carefully observed .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : As noted in the WARNINGS section , caution must be used in dosing / titrating patients with hepatic impairment or renal dysfunction .
Since there is no indication that hydrochlorothiazide is dialyzable , and limited data suggest that bisoprolol is not dialyzable , drug replacement is not necessary in patients undergoing dialysis .
Geriatric Patients : Dosage adjustment on the basis of age is not usually necessary , unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction ( see above and WARNINGS section ) .
Pediatric Patients : There is no pediatric experience with ZIAC .
HOW SUPPLIED ZIAC ® - 2 . 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg Tablets ( bisoprolol fumarate 2 . 5 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 mg ) : Yellow , round , film - coated , unscored tablets .
Debossed with stylized b within an engraved heart shape on one side and 47 on the other side , supplied as follows : Bottle of 100 Tablets NDC 51285 - 047 - 02 ZIAC ® - 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg Tablets ( bisoprolol fumarate 5 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 mg ) : Pink , round , film - coated , unscored tablets .
Debossed with stylized b within an engraved heart shape on one side and 50 on the other side , supplied as follows : Bottle of 100 Tablets NDC 51285 - 050 - 02 ZIAC ® - 10 mg / 6 . 25 mg Tablets ( bisoprolol fumarate 10 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 mg ) : White , round , film - coated , unscored tablets .
Debossed with stylized b within an engraved heart shape on one side and 40 on the other side , supplied as follows : Bottle of 30 Tablets with child resistant closure NDC 51285 - 040 - 01 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container .
Distributed by : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 ZIAC - 003 Rev . 03 / 2021 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51285 - 047 - 02 ZIAC ® ( bisoprolol fumarate - hydrochlorothiazide ) Tablets 2 . 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg 100 Tablets TEVA Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51285 - 050 - 02 ZIAC ® ( bisoprolol fumarate - hydrochlorothiazide ) Tablets 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg 100 Tablets TEVA Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51285 - 040 - 01 ZIAC ® ( bisoprolol fumarate - hydrochlorothiazide ) Tablets 10 mg / 6 . 25 mg 30 Tablets Unit - of - Use TEVA Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
