Rx only WARNING Ifosfamide for Injection , USP should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents .
Urotoxic side effects , especially hemorrhagic cystitis , as well as CNS toxicities such as confusion and coma have been associated with the use of ifosfamide .
When they occur , they may require cessation of ifosfamide therapy .
Severe myelosuppression has been reported ( see " ADVERSE REACTIONS " ) .
DESCRIPTION Ifosfamide for Injection , USP single - dose vials for constitution and administration by intravenous infusion each contain 1 gram or 3 grams of sterile , lyophilized ifosfamide .
Ifosfamide is a chemotherapeutic agent chemically related to the nitrogen mustards and a synthetic analog of cyclophosphamide .
Ifosfamide is 3 - ( 2 - chloroethyl ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino ] tetrahydro - 2 H - 1 , 3 , 2 - oxazaphosphorine 2 - oxide .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ifosfamide is a white crystalline powder that is soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ifosfamide has been shown to require metabolic activation by microsomal liver enzymes to produce biologically active metabolites .
Activation occurs by hydroxylation at the ring carbon atom 4 to form the unstable intermediate 4 - hydroxyifosfamide .
This metabolite rapidly degrades to the stable urinary metabolite 4 - ketoifosfamide .
Opening of the ring results in formation of the stable urinary metabolite , 4 - carboxyifosfamide .
These urinary metabolites have not been found to be cytotoxic .
N , N - bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) - phosphoric acid diamide ( ifosphoramide ) and acrolein are also found .
Enzymatic oxidation of the chloroethyl side chains , and subsequent dealkylation produces the major urinary metabolites , dechloroethyl ifosfamide and dechloroethyl cyclophosphamide .
The alkylated metabolites of ifosfamide have been shown to interact with DNA .
In vitro incubation of DNA with activated ifosfamide has produced phosphotriesters .
The treatment of intact cell nuclei may also result in the formation of DNA - DNA cross - links .
DNA repair most likely occurs in G - 1 and G - 2 stage cells .
Pharmacokinetics Ifosfamide exhibits dose - dependent pharmacokinetics in humans .
At single doses of 3 . 8 to 5 g / m 2 , the plasma concentrations decay biphasically and the mean terminal elimination half - life is about 15 hours .
At doses of 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 g / m 2 / day , the plasma decay is monoexponential and the terminal elimination half - life is about 7 hours .
Ifosfamide is extensively metabolized in humans and the metabolic pathways appear to be saturated at high doses .
After administration of doses of 5 g / m 2 of 14 C - labeled ifosfamide , from 70 % to 86 % of the dosed radioactivity was recovered in the urine , with about 61 % of the dose excreted as parent compound .
At doses of 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 g / m 2 only 12 % to 18 % of the dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug within 72 hours .
Two different dechloroethylated derivatives of ifosfamide , 4 - carboxyifosfamide , thiodiacetic acid and cysteine conjugates of chloroacetic acid have been identified as the major urinary metabolites of ifosfamide in humans and only small amounts of 4 - hydroxyifosfamide and acrolein are present .
Small quantities ( nmole / mL ) of ifosfamide mustard and 4 - hydroxyifosfamide are detectable in human plasma .
Metabolism of ifosfamide is required for the generation of the biologically active species and while metabolism is extensive , it is also quite variable among patients .
In a study at Indiana University , 50 fully evaluable patients with germ cell testicular cancer were treated with Ifosfamide for Injection in combination with cisplatin and either vinblastine or etoposide after failing ( 47 of 50 patients ) at least two prior chemotherapy regimens consisting of cisplatin / vinblastine / bleomycin , ( PVB ) , cisplatin / vinblastine / actinomycin D / bleomycin / cyclophosphamide , ( VAB6 ) , or the combination of cisplatin and etoposide .
Patients were selected for remaining cisplatin sensitivity because they had previously responded to a cisplatin containing regimen and had not progressed while on the cisplatin containing regimen or within 3 weeks of stopping it .
Patients served as their own control based on the premise that long - term complete responses could not be achieved by retreatment with a regimen to which they had previously responded and subsequently relapsed .
Ten of 50 fully evaluable patients were still alive 2 to 5 years after treatment .
Four of the 10 long - term survivors were rendered free of cancer by surgical resection after treatment with the ifosfamide regimen ; median survival for the entire group of 50 fully evaluable patients was 53 weeks .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ifosfamide for Injection , used in combination with certain other approved antineoplastic agents , is indicated for third line chemotherapy of germ cell testicular cancer .
It should ordinarily be used in combination with a prophylactic agent for hemorrhagic cystitis , such as mesna .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Continued use of Ifosfamide for Injection is contraindicated in patients with severely depressed bone marrow function ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections ) .
Ifosfamide for Injection is also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Urinary System Urotoxic side effects , especially hemorrhagic cystitis , have been frequently associated with the use of ifosfamide .
It is recommended that a urinalysis should be obtained prior to each dose of ifosfamide .
If microscopic hematuria ( greater than 10 RBCs per high power field ) , is present , then subsequent administration should be withheld until complete resolution .
Further administration of ifosfamide should be given with vigorous oral or parenteral hydration .
Hematopoietic System When ifosfamide is given in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents , severe myelosuppression is frequently observed .
Close hematologic monitoring is recommended .
White blood cell ( WBC ) count , platelet count and hemoglobin should be obtained prior to each administration and at appropriate intervals .
Unless clinically essential , ifosfamide should not be given to patients with a WBC count below 2000 / μL and / or a platelet count below 50 , 000 / μL .
Central Nervous System Neurologic manifestations consisting of somnolence , confusion , hallucinations and in some instances , coma , have been reported following ifosfamide therapy .
The occurrence of these symptoms requires discontinuing ifosfamide therapy .
The symptoms have usually been reversible and supportive therapy should be maintained until their complete resolution .
Pregnancy Animal studies indicate that the drug is capable of causing gene mutations and chromosomal damage in vivo .
Embryotoxic and teratogenic effects have been observed in mice , rats and rabbits at doses 0 . 05 to 0 . 075 times the human dose .
Ifosfamide can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman .
If ifosfamide is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
PRECAUTIONS General Ifosfamide should be given cautiously to patients with impaired renal function as well as to those with compromised bone marrow reserve , as indicated by : leukopenia , granulocytopenia , extensive bone marrow metastases , prior radiation therapy , or prior therapy with other cytotoxic agents .
Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ’ s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression .
Urine should also be examined regularly for red cells which may precede hemorrhagic cystitis .
Drug Interactions The physician should be alert for possible combined drug actions , desirable or undesirable , involving ifosfamide even though ifosfamide has been used successfully concurrently with other drugs , including other cytotoxic drugs .
Wound Healing Ifosfamide may interfere with normal wound healing .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D . See WARNINGS .
Nursing Mothers Ifosfamide is excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse events and the tumorigenicity shown for ifosfamide in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ifosfamide has been shown to be carcinogenic in rats , with female rats showing a significant incidence of leiomyosarcomas and mammary fibroadenomas .
The mutagenic potential of ifosfamide has been documented in bacterial systems in vitro and mammalian cells in vivo .
In vivo , ifosfamide has induced mutagenic effects in mice and Drosophila melanogaster germ cells , and has induced a significant increase in dominant lethal mutations in male mice as well as recessive sex - linked lethal mutations in Drosophila .
In pregnant mice , resorptions increased and anomalies were present at day 19 after 30 mg / m 2 dose of ifosfamide was administered on day 11 of gestation .
Embryolethal effects were observed in rats following the administration of 54 mg / m 2 doses of ifosfamide from the 6 th through the 15 th day of gestation and embryotoxic effects were apparent after dams received 18 mg / m 2 doses over the same dosing period .
Ifosfamide is embryotoxic to rabbits receiving 88 mg / m 2 / day doses from the 6 th through the 18 th day after mating .
The number of anomalies was also significantly increased over the control group .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients receiving ifosfamide as a single agent , the dose - limiting toxicities are myelosuppression and urotoxicity .
Dose fractionation , vigorous hydration , and a protector such as mesna can significantly reduce the incidence of hematuria , especially gross hematuria , associated with hemorrhagic cystitis .
At a dose of 1 . 2 g / m 2 daily for 5 consecutive days , leukopenia , when it occurs , is usually mild to moderate .
Other significant side effects include alopecia , nausea , vomiting , and central nervous system toxicities .
Adverse Reaction * Incidence ( % ) Alopecia 83 Nausea - Vomiting 58 Hematuria 46 Gross Hematuria 12 CNS Toxicity 12 Infection 8 Renal Impairment 6 Liver Dysfunction 3 Phlebitis 2 Fever 1 Allergic Reaction < 1 Anorexia < 1 Cardiotoxicity < 1 Coagulopathy < 1 Constipation < 1 Dermatitis < 1 Diarrhea < 1 Fatigue < 1 Hypertension < 1 Hypotension < 1 Malaise < 1 Polyneuropathy < 1 Pulmonary Symptoms < 1 Salivation < 1 Stomatitis < 1 * Based upon 2 , 070 patients from the published literature in 30 single agent studies .
Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression was dose related and dose limiting .
It consisted mainly of leukopenia and , to a lesser extent , thrombocytopenia .
A WBC count < 3000 / μL is expected in 50 % of the patients treated with ifosfamide single agent at doses of 1 . 2 g / m 2 per day for 5 consecutive days .
At this dose level , thrombocytopenia ( platelets < 100 , 000 / μL ) occurred in about 20 % of the patients .
At higher dosages , leukopenia was almost universal , and at total dosages of 10 to 12 g / m 2 / cycle , one half of the patients had a WBC count below 1000 / μL and 8 % of patients had platelet counts less than 50 , 000 / μL .
Myelosuppression was usually reversible and treatment can be given every 3 to 4 weeks .
When ifosfamide is used in combination with other myelosuppressive agents , adjustments in dosing may be necessary .
Patients who experience severe myelosuppression are potentially at increased risk for infection .
Anemia has been reported as part of postmarketing surveillance .
Digestive System Nausea and vomiting occurred in 58 % of the patients who received ifosfamide .
They were usually controlled by standard antiemetic therapy .
Other gastrointestinal side effects include anorexia , diarrhea , and in some cases , constipation .
Urinary System Urotoxicity consisted of hemorrhagic cystitis , dysuria , urinary frequency and other symptoms of bladder irritation .
Hematuria occurred in 6 % to 92 % of patients treated with ifosfamide .
The incidence and severity of hematuria can be significantly reduced by using vigorous hydration , a fractionated dose schedule and a protector such as mesna .
At daily doses of 1 . 2 g / m 2 for 5 consecutive days without a protector , microscopic hematuria is expected in about one half of the patients and gross hematuria in about 8 % of patients .
Renal toxicity occurred in 6 % of the patients treated with ifosfamide as a single agent .
Clinical signs , such as elevation in BUN or serum creatinine or decrease in creatinine clearance , were usually transient .
They were most likely to be related to tubular damage .
One episode of renal tubular acidosis which progressed into chronic renal failure was reported .
Proteinuria and acidosis also occurred in rare instances .
Metabolic acidosis was reported in 31 % of patients in one study when ifosfamide was administered at doses of 2 to 2 . 5 g / m 2 / day for 4 days .
Renal tubular acidosis , Fanconi syndrome , renal rickets , and acute renal failure have been reported .
Close clinical monitoring of serum and urine chemistries including phosphorus , potassium , alkaline phosphatase and other appropriate laboratory studies is recommended .
Appropriate replacement therapy should be administered as indicated .
Central Nervous System CNS side effects were observed in 12 % of patients treated with ifosfamide .
Those most commonly seen were somnolence , confusion , depressive psychosis , and hallucinations .
Other less frequent symptoms include dizziness , disorientation , and cranial nerve dysfunction .
Seizures and coma with death were occasionally reported .
The incidence of CNS toxicity may be higher in patients with altered renal function .
Other Alopecia occurred in approximately 83 % of the patients treated with ifosfamide as a single agent .
In combination , this incidence may be as high as 100 % , depending on the other agents included in the chemotherapy regimen .
Increases in liver enzymes and / or bilirubin were noted in 3 % of the patients .
Other less frequent side effects included phlebitis , pulmonary symptoms , fever of unknown origin , allergic reactions , stomatitis , cardiotoxicity , and polyneuropathy .
OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote for ifosfamide is known .
Management of overdosage would include general supportive measures to sustain the patient through any period of toxicity that might occur .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ifosfamide for Injection should be administered intravenously at a dose of 1 . 2 g / m 2 per day for 5 consecutive days .
Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks or after recovery from hematologic toxicity ( Platelets ≥ 100 , 000 / μL , WBC ≥ 4 , 000 / μL ) .
In order to prevent bladder toxicity , Ifosfamide for Injection should be given with extensive hydration consisting of at least 2 liters of oral or intravenous fluid per day .
A protector , such as mesna , should also be used to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis .
Ifosfamide for Injection should be administered as a slow intravenous infusion lasting a minimum of 30 minutes .
Although Ifosfamide for Injection has been administered to a small number of patients with compromised hepatic and / or renal function , studies to establish optimal dose schedules of Ifosfamide for Injection in such patients have not been conducted .
Preparation for Intravenous Administration / Stability Injections are prepared for parenteral use by adding Sterile Water for Injection , USP , or Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP ( benzyl alcohol or parabens preserved ) , to the vial and shaking to dissolve .
Use the quantity of diluent shown below to constitute the product : Dosage Strength Quantity of Diluent Final Concentration 1 gram 20 mL 50 mg / mL 3 grams 60 mL 50 mg / mL Solutions of ifosfamide may be diluted further to achieve concentrations of 0 . 6 to 20 mg / mL in the following fluids : 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP Sterile Water for Injection , USP Because essentially identical stability results were obtained for Sterile Water admixtures as for the other admixtures ( 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , and Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection ) , the use of large volume parenteral glass bottles , Viaflex bags or PAB ™ bags that contain intermediate concentrations or mixtures of excipients ( e . g . , 2 . 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ) is also acceptable .
Constituted or constituted and further diluted solutions of Ifosfamide for Injection should be refrigerated and used within 24 hours .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
HOW SUPPLIED Ifosfamide for Injection , USP , lyophilized is available as : Product No .
NDC No .
NP104210 63323 - 142 - 12 Ifosfamide for Injection , USP , 1 gram single - dose vial , packaged individually .
NP104300 63323 - 143 - 12 Ifosfamide for Injection , USP , 3 gram single - dose vial , packaged individually .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Vial stoppers do not contain natural rubber latex .
Protect from temperatures above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to Ifosfamide for Injection may occur .
The use of gloves is recommended .
If Ifosfamide for Injection solution contacts the skin or mucosa , immediately wash the skin thoroughly with soap and water or rinse the mucosa with copious amounts of water .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published .
1 - 7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
REFERENCES • Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs .
NIH Publication No . 83 - 2621 .
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 .
• AMA Council Report .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA 1985 ; 253 ( 11 ) : 1590 - 1592 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure - Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Sc .
D . , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , Massachusetts 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia : Guidelines and Recommendations for Safe Handling of Antineoplastic Agents .
Med J Australia 1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
• Jones , RB , et al : Safe Handling of Chemotherapeutic Agents : A Report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center , CA - A Cancer Journal for Clinicians 1983 ; ( Sept . / Oct . ) 258 - 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm 1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA WORK - PRACTICE GUIDELINES ) .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm 1996 ; 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
Manufactured by : APP Pharmaceticals , LLC Schaumburg , IL 60173 45977 B Revised : April 2008 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Ifosfamide 1 g Single Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 142 - 12 NP104210 Ifosfamide for Injection , USP 1 g For IV Use Single - Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Ifosfamide 1 g Single Dose Vial Carton Panel NDC 63323 - 142 - 12 NP104210 Ifosfamide for Injection , USP 1 g For IV Use Single - Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
