1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , a cholinesterase inhibitor , is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents ( NMBA ) after surgery .
Neostigmine Methylsulfate , a cholinesterase inhibitor , is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents ( NMBA ) after surgery ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage • Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommend use of a peripheral nerve stimulator to determine whether neostigmine methylsulfate should be administered and to monitor recovery from neuromuscular blockade ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Recommended dosage range is 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 07 mg / kg for reversing non - depolarizing neuromuscular block when administered with an anticholinergic agent ( atropine or glycopyrrolate ) ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half - lives , when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10 % of baseline , or when a second twitch is present : 0 . 03 mg / kg by intravenous route ( 2 . 2 ) • For reversal of NMBAs with longer half - lives or when first twitch response is close to 10 % of baseline : 0 . 07 mg / kg by intravenous route ( 2 . 2 ) • Maximum total dosage is 0 . 07 mg / kg or up to a total of 5 mg ( whichever is less ) ( 2 . 2 ) • An anticholinergic agent , e . g . , atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate , should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate ( 2 . 4 ) Dose of Anticholinergic Agent ( atropine or glycopyrrolate ) • Administer atropine sulfate ( ~ 15 mcg / kg ) or glycopyrrolate ( ~ 10 mcg / kg ) intravenously either several minutes before or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate ( using separate syringes ) ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • Neostigmine should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use , actions , characteristics , and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents ( NMBA ) and neuromuscular block reversal agents .
• Prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration and up until complete recovery of normal ventilation , the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained .
• Use a peripheral nerve stimulator capable of delivering a train - of - four ( TOF ) stimulus to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function , and to determine the time of the first dose and the need for additional doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection .
• Prior to the administration of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , there must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10 % of its baseline level ( i . e . , the response prior to NMBA administration ) .
• Dose selection should be based on the extent of spontaneous recovery at time of injection , half - life of the neuromuscular blocking agent ( NMBA ) to be reversed , and need for rapid NMBA reversal .
• Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal of the effect of NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient ’ s medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used .
• Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered by intravenous bolus injection .
Additional , carefully adjusted bolus doses are administered according to the patient ’ s response .
• An anticholinergic agent ( e . g . , atropine or glycopyrrolate ) should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade .
Satisfactory recovery should be judged by the patient ’ s ability to maintain a patent airway , adequacy of ventilation , and skeletal muscle tone .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage in Adults • The recommended dose range of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 07 mg / kg administered as an intravenous bolus .
• A dose less than 0 . 04 mg / kg is recommended for reversal of the effect of NMBAs with shorter half - lives ( e . g . , rocuronium ) , or when the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10 % of baseline , or when a second twitch is present .
• A dose of 0 . 07 mg / kg is recommended for the reversal of the effect of NMBAs with longer half - lives ( e . g . , vecuronium or pancuronium ) , or when first twitch response is not substantially greater than 10 % of baseline , or if there is need for more rapid recovery .
• Additional doses may be required .
The recommended maximum total dose is 0 . 07 mg / kg or up to a total of 5 mg , whichever is less .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients , including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients .
Pediatric patients require Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection doses similar to those for adult patients .
2 . 4 Concomitant or Pre - Administration of Anticholinergic Agents An anticholinergic agent ( e . g . , atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate ) should be administered intravenously several minutes prior to or with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration using separate syringes .
For bradycardic patients , the anticholinergic agent should be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 0 . 5 mg / mL and 1 mg / mL solution in 10 mL multiple - dose vials in package of 10 vials .
Injection : 0 . 5 mg / mL and 1 mg / mL solution in 10 mL multiple dose vial in packages of 10 vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine is contraindicated in patients with : • known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate ( known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria , angioedema , erythema multiforme , generalized rash , facial swelling , peripheral edema , pyrexia , flushing , hypotension , bronchospasm , bradycardia and anaphylaxis ) .
• peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the urinary or intestinal tracts .
• Hypersensitivity to neostigmine ( 4 ) • Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of urinary or intestinal tracts ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Bradycardia : Atropine or glycopyrrolate should be administered prior to administration of neostigmine methylsulfate injection to lessen risk of bradycardia ( 5 . 1 ) • Coexisting Conditions : Patients with known cardiac disease , cardiac arrhythmias , or recent coronary artery occlusion may be particularly sensitive to the hemodynamic effects of neostigmine ; their blood pressure and electrocardiogram should be continuously monitored with the initiation of neostigmine treatment and for a duration sufficient to assure hemodynamic stability .
( 5 . 2 ) • Neuromuscular Dysfunction : Can occur if large doses of neostigmine methylsulfate are administered when there is minimal neuromuscular blockade ; reduce the dose if recovery from neuromuscular blockade is nearly complete .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Bradycardia Neostigmine has been associated with bradycardia .
An anticholinergic agent , ( e . g . , atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate ) should be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration to lessen the risk of bradycardia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Complications Cardiac arrhythmias , nonspecific electrocardiogram changes , cardiac arrest , syncope and hypotension have been reported with neostigmine methylsulfate .
In patients with certain cardiovascular conditions such as coronary artery disease , cardiac arrhythmias or recent acute coronary syndrome , the risk of blood pressure and heart rate complications may be increased .
Risk of these complications may also be increased in patients with myasthenia gravis .
Standard antagonism with anticholinergics ( e . g . , atropine ) is generally successful to mitigate the risk of cardiovascular complications .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity ( Anaphylaxis ) Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported with neostigmine .
Ensure that appropriate medical support measures , including atropine , cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment , and medications to treat anaphylaxis are readily available .
5 . 4 Neuromuscular Dysfunction Neuromuscular dysfunction has been associated with administration of large doses of neostigmine when neuromuscular blockade is minimal .
To mitigate the risk of neuromuscular dysfunction , consider reducing the dose of neostigmine if recovery from neuromuscular blockade is nearly complete .
5 . 5 Cholinergic Crisis Overdosage of neostigmine may cause cholinesterase inhibitor toxicity or cholinergic crisis which may be difficult to differentiate from myasthenia crisis since both conditions present with similar symptoms .
Both conditions result in extreme muscle weakness but require radically different treatments .
Cholinergic crisis requires immediate withdrawal of all anticholinergic medication and immediate use of atropine [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions include bradycardia and nausea and vomiting .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi , Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Bradycardia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiovascular Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity ( Anaphylaxis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions to neostigmine methylsulfate are most often attributable to exaggerated pharmacological effects , in particular , at muscarinic receptor sites .
The use of an anticholinergic agent , e . g . , atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate , may prevent or mitigate these reactions .
Quantitative adverse event data are available from trials of neostigmine methylsulfate in which 200 adult patients were exposed to the product .
Adverse reactions that occurred with an overall frequency of 1 % or greater included the following : Allergic : Allergic reactions and anaphylaxis .
Neurological : Dizziness , syncope , weakness , convulsions , loss of consciousness , drowsiness , headache , dysarthria , miosis and visual changes .
Cardiovascular : Cardiac arrhythmias including bradycardia , tachycardia , atrioventricular block and nodal rhythm , as well as cardiac arrest , and hypotension .
Respiratory : Increased oral , pharyngeal and bronchial secretions , dyspnea , respiratory depression , oxygen desaturation , respiratory arrest and bronchospasm .
Dermatologic : Diaphoresis , flushing , rash , pruritus , and urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : Dry mouth , nausea , emesis , flatulence and increased peristalsis .
Genitourinary : Increased urinary frequency .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle cramps and spasm , arthralgia .
Psychiatric : Insomnia .
General : Incision site complication , pharyngolaryngeal pain , procedural complication , procedural pain .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during parenteral use of neostigmine methylsulfate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Allergic Disorders : Allergic reactions , anaphylaxis Nervous System Disorders : Convulsions , drowsiness , dysarthria , fasciculation , loss of consciousness , miosis , visual changes Cardiovascular Disorders : Cardiac arrest , cardiac arrhythmias ( A - V block , nodal rhythm ) , hypotension , nonspecific EKG changes , syncope Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Bronchospasm ; increased oral , pharyngeal and bronchial secretions ; respiratory arrest ; respiratory depression Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Rash , urticaria diaphoresis , flushing Gastrointestinal Disorders : Bowel cramps , diarrhea , flatulence , increased peristalsis Renal and Urinary Disorders : Urinary frequency Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Arthralgia , muscle cramps , spasms , weakness 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The pharmacokinetic interaction between neostigmine methylsulfate and other drugs has not been studied .
Neostigmine methylsulfate is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver .
Closely monitor patients for a longer period of time when using Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection with other drugs which may alter the activity of metabolizing enzymes or transporters .
7 . 1 Depolarizing Muscle Relaxants Use of neostigmine to reverse the effects of depolarizing muscle relaxants such as succinylcholine is not recommended , because it may prolong the phase - 1 block .
7 . 2 Antibiotics Certain antibiotics , particularly neomycin , streptomycin and kanamycin have nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking action , and therefore , neostigmine dose adjustments may be required to reverse neuromuscular block in patients who have been taking these drugs .
There was no effect on neostigmine action on rocuronium reversal by cefuroxime , metronidazole , cefuroxime or metronidazole .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : No human data and limited animal exist .
Use only if clearly needed .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate or well - controlled studies of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection in pregnant women .
It is not known whether Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
The incidence of malformations in human pregnancies has not been established for neostigmine as the data are limited .
All pregnancies , regardless of drug exposure , have a background risk of 2 to 4 % for major birth defects , and 15 to 20 % for pregnancy loss .
No adverse effects were noted in rats or rabbits treated with human equivalent doses of neostigmine methylsulfate doses up to 8 . 1 and 13 mcg / kg / day , respectively , during organogenesis ( 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 - times the maximum recommended human dose of 5 mg / 60 kg person / day based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Anticholinesterase drugs , including neostigmine may cause uterine irritability and induce premature labor when administered to pregnant women near term .
Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Data Animal Data In embryofetal development studies , rats and rabbits were administered neostigmine methylsulfate at human equivalent doses ( HED , on a mg / m 2 basis ) of 1 . 6 , 4 and 8 . 1 mcg / kg / day 3 . 2 , 8 . 1 , and 13 mcg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis ( Gestation Days 6 through 17 for rats and Gestation Days 6 through 18 for rabbits ) .
There was no evidence for a teratogenic effect in rats and rabbits up to HED 8 . 1 and 13 mcg / kg / day , which are approximately 0 . 097 - times and 0 . 16 - times the MRHD of 5 mg / 60 kg , respectively in the presence of minimal maternal toxicity ( tremors , ataxia , and prostration ) .
The studies resulted in exposures in the animals well below predicted exposures in humans .
In a pre - and postnatal development study in rats , neostigmine methylsulfate was administered to pregnant female rats at human equivalent doses ( HED ) of 1 . 6 , 4 and 8 . 1 mcg / kg / day from Day 6 of gestation through Day 20 of lactation , with weaning on Day 21 .
There were no adverse effects on physical development , behavior , learning ability , or fertility in the offspring occurred at HED doses up 8 . 1 mcg / kg / day which is 0 . 097 - times the MRHD of 5 mg / 60 kg on a mg / m 2 basis in the presence of minimal maternal toxicity ( tremors , ataxia , and prostration ) .
The studies resulted in exposures in the animals well below predicted exposures in humans .
8 . 2 Lactation It is not known whether Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Data from published literature support the intravenous use of neostigmine methylsulfate for reversal of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents in all pediatric age groups .
Recovery of neuromuscular activity occurs more rapidly with smaller doses of cholinesterase inhibitors in infants and children than in adults .
However , infants and small children may be at greater risk of complications from incomplete reversal of neuromuscular blockade due to decreased respiratory reserve .
The risks associated with incomplete reversal outweigh any risk from giving higher doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate ( up to 0 . 07 mg / kg or up to a total of 5 mg , whichever is lower ) .
The dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate required to reverse neuromuscular blockade in children varies between 0 . 03 mg to 0 . 07 mg / kg , the same dose range shown to be effective in adults , and should be selected using the same criteria as used for adult patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Since the blood pressure in pediatric patients , particularly infants and neonates is sensitive to changes in heart rate , the effects of an anticholinergic agent ( e . g . , atropine ) should be observed prior to administration of neostigmine to lessen the probability of bradycardia and hypotension .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Elderly patients are likely to have decreased renal function , which may prolong the duration of action of neostigmine methylsulfate .
However , elderly patients also experience slower spontaneous recovery from neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , dosage adjustments are generally not needed in geriatric patients ; however , they should be monitored for longer periods than younger adults to assure additional doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection are not required .
The duration of monitoring should be predicated on the anticipated duration of action for the neuromuscular blocking agents used on the patient .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Elimination half - life of neostigmine was prolonged in anephric patients compared to normal subjects , so neostigmine concentration may increase in patients with impaired renal functions .
Although no adjustments to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection dosing appear to be warranted in patients with impaired renal function , they should be closely monitored for a longer period of time .
To assure the effects of the neuromuscular blocking agent , particularly one cleared by the kidneys , do not persist beyond those of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , the interval for redosing the neuromuscular blocking agent during the surgical procedure may be useful in determining whether , and to what extent , postoperative monitoring needs to be extended .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of neostigmine methylsulfate in patients with hepatic impairment have not been studied .
Neostigmine is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver so neostigmine concentration may increase in patients with impaired hepatic functions .
Although no adjustments to the dosing of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection appear to be warranted in patients with hepatic insufficiency , patients should be carefully monitored for a longer period of time .
If hepatically cleared neuromuscular blocking agents were used during the surgical procedure , their duration of action may also be prolonged by hepatic insufficiency .
This could result in the effects of the neuromuscular blocking agent outlasting those of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection .
In this regard , the interval for re - dosing the neuromuscular blocking agent during the surgical procedure may be useful in determining whether , and to what extent , post - operative monitoring needs to be extended .
10 OVERDOSAGE Muscarinic symptoms ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , sweating , increased bronchial and salivary secretions , and bradycardia ) may appear with overdosage of neostigmine methylsulfate , but may be managed by the use of additional atropine or glycopyrrolate .
The possibility of iatrogenic overdose can be lessened by carefully monitoring the muscle twitch response to peripheral nerve stimulation .
Should overdosage occur , ventilation should be supported by artificial means until the adequacy of spontaneous respiration is assured , and cardiac function should be monitored .
Overdosage of neostigmine may also cause a cholinergic crisis , which is characterized by increasing muscle weakness , and through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may result in death if not promptly treated .
The treatment of an overdose of neostigmine includes immediate withdrawal of all anticholinergic medication and immediate use of atropine is also recommended .
Assistance of ventilation may be required if respiration is severely depressed .
Myasthenic crisis , due to an increase in the severity of the disease , is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness and may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
However , such differentiation is extremely important because increases in the dose of neostigmine methylsulfate or other drugs in this class , in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or “ insensitive ” state , could have grave consequences .
The two types of crises may be differentiated by the use of edrophonium chloride as well as by clinical judgment .
Treatment of the two conditions differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis requires more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , cholinergic crisis calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to lessen gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
11 DESCRIPTION Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , a cholinesterase inhibitor , has an empirical formula of C 13 H 22 N 2 O 6 S , a molecular weight of 334 . 39 g / mol and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is formulated with neostigmine methylsulfate , a white crystalline powder , chemically designated as ( m - hydroxyphenyl ) trimethylammonium methylsulfate dimethylcarbamate .
Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is available in two dosage strengths ; 0 . 5 mg / mL , and 1 mg / mL in 10 mL multiple dose amber glass vials .
The composition per mL is as follows : Ingredients mg / mL Neostigmine Methylsulfate 0 . 5 1 Phenol ( as Liquefied Phenol , USP ) 4 . 5 4 . 5 Sodium Acetate , USP ( Trihydrate ) 0 . 2 0 . 2 Water for Injection q . s . q . s Phenol is added as a preservative .
Acetic acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Neostigmine methylsulfate is a competitive cholinesterase inhibitor .
By reducing the breakdown of acetylcholine , neostigmine methylsulfate induces an increase in acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft which competes for the same binding site as nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents , and reverses the neuromuscular blockade .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Neostigmine is an anticholinesterase agent , and inhibits the hydrolysis of acetylcholine by competing with acetylcholine for binding to acetylcholinesterase at sites of cholinergic transmission .
By reducing the breakdown of acetylcholine , neuromuscular transmission is facilitated .
Neostigmine also has direct postsynaptic cholinomimetic effects which can be managed clinically by the co - administration of atropine or glycopyrrolate .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Protein binding of neostigmine to human serum albumin ranges from 15 to 25 % .
The observed volume of distribution is between 0 . 12 and 1 . 4 L / kg following intravenous injection .
Elimination Neostigmine is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver and the observed elimination half - life reported is between 24 and 113 minutes .
Metabolism Neostigmine is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver .
Excretion The observed elimination half - life reported is between 24 and 113 minutes following intravenous injection .
Specific Populations Pediatric Population : After intravenous administration as a 2 - minute infusion ( infants 2 to 10 months old : 100 mcg / kg ; children 1 to 6 years old : 70 mcg / kg ) , the elimination half - life for infants and children were 39 ± 5 min and 48 ± 16 min ( mean ± SD ) , respectively .
Clearance for infants and children were 13 . 6 ± 2 . 8 and 11 . 1 ± 2 . 7 mL / min / kg ( mean ± SD ) , respectively .
Renal Impairment Elimination half - life was prolonged in anephric patients compared to normal subjects ; elimination half - life for normal , transplant and anephric patients were 79 . 8 ± 48 . 6 , 104 . 7 ± 64 and 181 ± 54 min ( mean ± SD ) , respectively .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of neostigmine in patients with hepatic impairment has not been studied .
Neostigmine is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver and its concentration may increase in patients with impaired hepatic functions .
Drug Interactions The pharmacokinetic interaction between neostigmine and other drugs has not been studied .
Neostigmine concentration may increase or decrease if concomitantly used drugs inhibit or induce the activity of metabolizing enzymes or transporters , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of neostigmine methylsulfate .
Mutagenesis : Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection was not genotoxic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , in the in vitro chromosome aberration assay , or the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility : In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats , male rats were treated for 28 days prior to mating and female rats were treated for 14 days prior to mating with intravenous neostigmine methylsulfate ( human equivalent doses of 1 . 6 , 4 , and 8 . 1 mcg / kg / day , based on body surface area ) .
No adverse effects were reported at any dose ( up to 0 . 1 - times the MRHD of 5 mg / 60 kg person based on a body surface area comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Data from published literature support the intravenous use of neostigmine methylsulfate for reversal of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents .
Randomized , spontaneous - recovery - controlled or placebo - controlled studies using similar efficacy endpoints evaluated a total of 404 adult and 80 pediatric patients undergoing various surgical procedures .
Patients had reductions in their recovery time from neuromuscular blockade with neostigmine methylsulfate treatment compared to spontaneous recovery and placebo treatments .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is available in 10 mL multiple dose amber glass vials containing a clear , colorless solution of 0 . 5 mg per mL ( NDC 63323 - 413 - 36 ) or 1 mg per mL ( NDC 63323 - 415 - 36 ) of neostigmine methylsulfate injection supplied in packages of 10 vials .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and protect from light .
Store vials in tray until ready for use .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] is a registered trademark of Premier , Inc . , used under license .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . us 451471 Issued : September 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Neostigmine 10 mL Vial Label Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , USP 5 mg per 10 mL ( 0 . 5 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Neostigmine 10 mL Vial Tray Label Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , USP 5 mg per 10 mL ( 0 . 5 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
10 x 10 mL Multiple Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Neostigmine 10 mL Vial Label Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , USP 10 mg per 10 mL ( 1 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Neostigmine 10 mL Vial Tray Label Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection , USP 10 mg per 10 mL ( 1 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
10 x 10 mL Multiple Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
