Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each capsule ) Naproxen sodium 220 mg ( naproxen 200 mg ) ( NSAID ) [ 1 ] [ 1 ] nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purposes Pain reliever / fever reducer Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to : • minor pain of arthritis • muscular aches • backache • menstrual cramps • headache • toothache • the common cold • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Allergy alert Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you : • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear • you have difficulty swallowing • it feels like the capsule is stuck in your throat If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose • if taken with food , this product may take longer to work adults and children 12 years and older : • take 1 capsule every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 capsules within the first hour • do not exceed 2 capsules in any 8 - to 12 - hour period • do not exceed 3 capsules in a 24 - hour period children under 12 years : • ask a doctor Other information • each capsule contains : sodium 20 mg • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) avoid high humidity and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) • read all directions and warnings before use .
Keep carton .
Inactive ingredients FD & C blue # 1 , gelatin , glycerin , lactic acid , mannitol , pharmaceutical ink , polyethylene glycol , povidone , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan , sorbitol Questions or comments ?
1 - 877 - 932 - 7948 *** All trademarks are property of their respective owners .
This product is not affiliated with the makers / owners of ALEVE ® Liquid Gels .
DISTRIBUTED BY SUPERVALU INC .
EDEN PRAIRIE , MN 55344 USA 100 % Quality GUARANTEED Like it or let us make it right .
That ' s our quality promise .
877 - 932 - 7948 supervaluprivatebrands . com R0918 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 220 mg Capsule Bottle Carton EQUALINE ® Compare to ALEVE ® Liquid Gels active ingredient *** NDC 41163 - 079 - 15 naproxen sodium Capsules , 220 mg pain reliever / fever reducer ( NSAID ) strength to last 12 hours 40 capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
