Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses • treats acne • dries acne pimples and allows skin to heal • helps prevent new acne pimples from forming Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer up to 3 times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 to 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , use sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients carbomer , disodium EDTA , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , laureth - 4 , methylparaben , purified water , sodium hydroxide Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 or visit www . natureplex . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton NDC 67234 - 035 - 01 Natureplex ™ MAXIMUM STRENGTH ZitFree Acne Treatment Cream * Compare to the active ingredient of Clearasil ® Daily Clear ® Vanishing Acne Treatment Cream Oil - Free , Odorless Cream Disappears As It Works NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
