Active ingredients Potassium nitrate 5 % Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Uses • • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings Click here to enter Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• • pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Keep out of reach of children If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
• • brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , PEG - 8 , cocamidopropyl betaine , flavor , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , sodium saccharin , sodium hydroxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 844 - 2797 Additional information ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL SENSODYNE PRONAMEL Acidic foods and drinks can cause enamel loss that can lead to yellowing , dullness and sensitivity .
Pronamel has a specialty formulation to help rebuild and restore acid weakened enamel , helping prevent enamel loss for strong , healthy teeth .
ACID ATTACKS ENAMEL WEAKENING THE ENAMEL STRUCTURE PRONAMEL REBUILDS & RESTORES ENAMEL FOR STRONG HEALTHY TEETH Healthy white teeth start with strong enamel .
Pronamel has a proven specialist technology that has been developed to maximize the effect of fluoride on enamel .
With twice - daily brushing , Pronamel helps to : • Rebuild enamel strength for strong , healthy teeth • Protect against the effects of dietary acids • Relieve sensitive teeth • Freshen breath • Protect against cavities Recyclable Carton Save Water Turn off tap while brushing Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0580 - 01 SENSODYNE PRONAMEL TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION new look with advanced whitening GENTLE WHITENING ADVANCED Specialist Enamel Protection Rebuilds , Restores , Refreshes NET WT 6 . 5 OZ ( 184 g ) 62000000053961 Front Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
