WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK Cardiovascular Risk • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [ See Warnings and Precautions and ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Flector Patch is contraindicated in the peri - operative setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ See Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Cardiovascular Risk • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk .
( 5 . 1 ) • Flector Patch is contraindicated in the peri - operative setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 ) Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs , including diclofenac , cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events .
( 5 . 2 ) None 1 INDICATION AND USAGE Flector ® Patch is indicated for the topical treatment of acute pain due to minor strains , sprains , and contusions .
• Flector Patch contains diclofenac epolamine , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) and is indicated for the topical treatment of acute pain due to minor strains , sprains , and contusions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose of Flector Patch is one ( 1 ) patch to the most painful area twice a day .
( 2 ) • Flector Patch should not be applied to damaged or non - intact skin .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 General Instructions The recommended dose of Flector Patch is one ( 1 ) patch to the most painful area twice a day .
2 . 2 Special Precautions • Patients should be informed that , if Flector Patch begins to peel - off , the edges of the patch may be taped down .
If problems with adhesion persist , patients may overlay the patch with a mesh netting sleeve , where appropriate ( e . g . to secure patches applied to ankles , knees , or elbows ) .
The mesh netting sleeve ( e . g . Curad ® Hold Tite ™ , Surgilast ® Tubular Elastic Dressing ) must allow air to pass through and not be occlusive ( non - breathable ) .
• Do not apply Flector Patch to non - intact or damaged skin resulting from any etiology e . g . exudative dermatitis , eczema , infected lesion , burns or wounds .
• Do not wear a Flector Patch when bathing or showering .
• Wash your hands after applying , handling or removing the patch .
• Avoid eye contact .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Patch ( 10 × 14 cm ) containing 180 mg of diclofenac epolamine , embossed with " FLECTOR PATCH < DICLOFENAC EPOLAMINE TOPICAL PATCH > 1 . 3 % " • Patch : 180 mg of diclofenac epolamine .
Each individual patch is embossed .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Flector Patch is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diclofenac .
• Flector Patch is contraindicated in patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Severe , rarely fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 13 ) ] .
• Flector Patch is contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Flector Patch is contraindicated for use on non - intact or damaged skin resulting from any etiology , including exudative dermatitis , eczema , infection lesions , burns or wounds .
• Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac .
( 4 ) • History of asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
( 4 ) • Use in the peri - operative period of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 ) • Use on non - intact or damaged skin .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events : Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment .
Use the lowest effective dose of Flector Patch in patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Effects : NSAIDs can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including inflammation , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation .
Prescribe Flector Patch with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatic Effects : Elevation of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with Flector Patch .
Discontinue Flector Patch immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypertension can occur with NSAID treatment .
Monitor blood pressure closely with Flector Patch treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) • Congestive Heart Failure and Edema : Use Flector Patch with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
( 5 . 5 ) • Renal effects : Long - term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Use Flector Patch with caution in patients at greatest risk of this reaction , including the elderly , those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , and those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors .
( 5 . 6 ) • Anaphylactic reactions may occur in patients with the aspirin triad and in patients with or without known sensitivity to NSAIDs or prior exposure to Flector Patch .
Anaphylaxis type reactions have been reported with NSAID products , including diclofenac products such as Flector Patch .
( 5 . 7 ) • Skin Reactions : NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
( 5 . 8 ) • Pregnancy : Avoid the use of Flector Patch at or beyond 30 weeks gestation .
( 5 . 9 ) • Preexisting Asthma : Do not administer to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
( 5 . 13 ) • New or used Flector Patch contains sufficient diclofenac to result in serious harm following accidental exposure by a child or pet .
( 5 . 14 ) • Eyes : Avoid contact of Flector Patch with eyes and mucosa .
( 5 . 15 ) • Oral NSAIDs : Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs .
( 5 . 16 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Inform patients about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
Two large , controlled , clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 - 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and NSAIDs , such as diclofenac , does increase the risk of serious GI events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of GI Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation NSAIDs , including diclofenac , can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with NSAIDs .
Only one in five patients , who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy , is symptomatic .
Upper GI ulcers , gross bleeding , or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1 % of patients treated for 3 - 6 months , and in about 2 - 4 % of patients treated for one year .
These trends continue with longer duration of use , increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy .
However , even short - term therapy is not without risk .
Prescribe NSAIDs , including Flector Patch , with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and / or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 - fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors .
Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore , special care should be taken in treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during diclofenac therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
For high risk patients , consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs .
5 . 3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations ( less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ ULN ] range ) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15 % of oral diclofenac - treated patients in clinical trials of indications other than acute pain .
Of the markers of hepatic function , ALT ( SGPT ) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury .
In clinical trials of an oral diclofenac – misoprostol combination product , meaningful elevations ( i . e . , more than 3 times the ULN ) of AST ( SGOT ) occurred in about 2 % of approximately 5 , 7000 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment ( ALT was not measured in all studies ) .
In an open - label , controlled trial of 3 , 700 patients treated for 2 - 6 months , patients with oral diclofenac were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1 , 200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks .
Meaningful elevations of ALT and / or AST occurred in about 4 % of the 3 , 700 patients and included marked elevations ( > 8 times the ULN ) in about 1 % of the 3 , 700 patients .
In this open - label study , a higher incidence of borderline ( less than 3 times the ULN ) , moderate ( 3 - 8 times the ULN ) , and marked ( > 8 times the ULN ) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs .
Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis .
Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic .
Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations .
In postmarketing reports , cases of drug - induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month , and in some cases , the first 2 months of therapy , but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac .
Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions , including liver necrosis , jaundice , fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice , and liver failure .
Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation .
Measure transaminases ( ALT and AST ) periodically in patients receiving long - term therapy with diclofenac , because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms .
The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known .
Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences , monitor transaminases within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac .
However , severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac .
If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , if clinical signs and / or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . eosinophilia , rash , abdominal pain , diarrhea , dark urine , etc . ) , discontinue Flector Patch immediately .
To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements , inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , diarrhea , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) , and the appropriate action patients should take if these signs and symptoms appear .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with Flector Patch , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible .
Exercise caution when prescribing Flector Patch with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic ( e . g . , acetaminophen , certain antibiotics , anti - epileptics ) .
Caution patients to avoid taking unprescribed acetaminophen while using Flector Patch .
5 . 4 Hypertension NSAIDs , including Flector Patch , can lead to new onset or worsening of pre - existing hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Use Flector Patch , with caution in patients with hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure ( BP ) closely during the initiation of treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Patients taking ACE inhibitors , thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
5 . 5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs , including Flector Patch .
Use Flector Patch with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
5 . 6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with Flector Patch in patients with considerable dehydration .
Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of an NSAID may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of Flector Patch in patients with advanced renal disease .
Therefore , treatment with Flector Patch is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease .
If Flector Patch therapy is initiated , close monitoring of the patient ' s renal function is advisable .
5 . 7 Anaphylactic Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactic reactions may occur both in patients with the aspirin triad and in patients without known sensitivity to NSAIDs or prior exposure to Flector Patch .
Do not prescribe Flector Patch to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Anaphylaxis type reactions have been reported with NSAID products , including diclofenac products , such as Flector Patch [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactic reaction occurs .
5 . 8 Skin Reactions NSAIDs , including Flector Patch , can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations , and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other signs of hypersensitivity .
5 . 9 Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation , Flector Patch , and other NSAIDs , should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Corticosteroid Monitoring Flector Patch cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency .
Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation .
Slowly taper patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids .
5 . 11 Inflammation The pharmacological activity of Flector Patch in reducing inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious , painful conditions .
5 . 12 Hematological Effects Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs , including Flector Patch , should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia .
NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration , and reversible .
Carefully monitor patients receiving Flector Patch who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants .
5 . 13 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm , which can be fatal .
Since cross reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , do not administer Flector Patch to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
5 . 14 Accidental Exposure in Children Even a used Flector Patch contains a large amount of diclofenac epolamine ( as much as 170 mg ) .
The potential therefore exists for a small child or pet to suffer serious adverse effects from chewing or ingesting a new or used Flector Patch .
It is important for patients to store and dispose of Flector Patch out of the reach of children and pets .
5 . 15 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of Flector Patch with eyes and mucosa .
Advise patients that if eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour .
5 . 16 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral and topical NSAIDs may result in a higher rate of hemorrhage , more frequent abnormal creatinine , urea and hemoglobin .
Do not use combination therapy with Flector Patch and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk .
5 . 17 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding .
Check CBC and a chemistry profile periodically in patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs .
Discontinue Flector Patch if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events with Flector Patch are application site reactions .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact King Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 546 - 4905 or DSP @ kingpharm . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In controlled trials during the premarketing development of Flector Patch , approximately 600 patients with minor sprains , strains , and contusions have been treated with Flector Patch for up to two weeks .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment In the controlled trials , 3 % of patients in both the Flector Patch and placebo patch groups discontinued treatment due to an adverse event .
The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation were application site reactions , occurring in 2 % of both the Flector Patch and placebo patch groups .
Application site reactions leading to dropout included pruritus , dermatitis , and burning .
Common Adverse Events Localized Reactions Overall , the most common adverse events associated with Flector Patch treatment were skin reactions at the site of treatment .
Table 1 lists all adverse events , regardless of causality , occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients in controlled trials of Flector Patch .
A majority of patients treated with Flector Patch had adverse events with a maximum intensity of " mild " or " moderate . "
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Events ( by body system and preferred term ) in ≥ 1 % of Patients treated with Flector Patch or Placebo Patch [ 1 ] Diclofenac N = 572 Placebo N = 564 N Percent N Percent Application Site Conditions 64 11 70 12 Pruritus 31 5 44 8 Dermatitis 9 2 3 < 1 Burning 2 < 1 8 1 Other [ 2 ] 22 4 15 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders 49 9 33 6 Nausea 17 3 11 2 Dysgeusia 10 2 3 < 1 Dyspepsia 7 1 8 1 Other [ 3 ] 15 3 11 2 Nervous System Disorders 13 2 18 3 Headache 7 1 10 2 Paresthesia 6 1 8 1 Somnolence 4 1 6 1 Other [ 4 ] 4 1 3 < 1 [ 1 ] The table lists adverse events occurring in placebo - treated patients because the placebo - patch was comprised of the same ingredients as Flector Patch except for diclofenac .
Adverse events in the placebo group may therefore reflect effects of the non - active ingredients .
[ 2 ] Includes : application site dryness , irritation , erythema , atrophy , discoloration , hyperhidriosis , and vesicles .
[ 3 ] Includes : gastritis , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation , upper abdominal pain , and dry mouth .
[ 4 ] Includes : hypoaesthesia , dizziness , and hyperkinesias .
Foreign labeling describes that dermal allergic reactions may occur with Flector Patch treatment .
Additionally , the treated area may become irritated or develop itching , erythema , edema , vesicles , or abnormal sensation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant administration of Flector Patch and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GI bleeding .
( 7 . 1 ) • Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin , the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced , although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
7 . 3 ACE - inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors .
Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE - inhibitors .
7 . 4 Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as post marketing observations , have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs , observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] , as well as to assure diuretic efficacy .
7 . 5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID .
Thus , when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently , observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
7 . 6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Use caution when NSAIDs , including diclofenac , are administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
7 . 7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac , like other NSAIDs , may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs .
Therefore , concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine ' s nephrotoxicity .
Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine .
7 . 8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral and topical NSAIDs may result in a higher rate of hemorrhage , more frequent abnormal creatinine , urea and hemoglobin .
Do not use combination therapy with Flector Patch and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Avoid use after 30 weeks gestation ( 5 . 9 , 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Use with caution , as it is not known if diclofenac is excreted in human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C prior to 30 weeks gestation ; Category D starting 30 weeks gestation .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , avoid use of Flector Patch , and other NSAIDS , in pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur , Flector Patch can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman starting at 30 weeks gestation .
If this drug is used during this time period in pregnancy , inform the patient of the potential hazard to a fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Prior to 30 weeks gestation , Flector Patch should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were administered 1 , 3 , or 6 mg / kg diclofenac epolamine via oral gavage daily from gestation days 6 - 15 .
Maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity , and increased incidence of skeletal anomalies were noted with 6 mg / kg / day diclofenac epolamine , which corresponds to 3 - times the maximum recommended daily exposure in humans based on a body surface area comparison .
Pregnant New Zealand White rabbits were administered 1 , 3 , or 6 mg / kg diclofenac epolamine via oral gavage daily from gestation days 6 - 18 .
No maternal toxicity was noted ; however , embryotoxicity was evident at 6 mg / kg / day group which corresponds to 6 . 5 - times the maximum recommended daily exposure in humans based on a body surface area comparison .
Nonteratogenic Effects Male rats were orally administered diclofenac epolamine ( 1 , 3 , 6 mg / kg ) for 60 days prior to mating and throughout the mating period , and females were given the same doses 14 days prior to mating and through mating , gestation , and lactation .
Embryotoxicity was observed at 6 mg / kg diclofenac epolamine ( 3 - times the maximum recommended daily exposure in humans based on a body surface area comparison ) , and was manifested as an increase in early resorptions , post - implantation losses , and a decrease in live fetuses .
The number of live born and total born were also reduced as was F1 postnatal survival , but the physical and behavioral development of surviving F1 pups in all groups was the same as the deionized water control , nor was reproductive performance adversely affected despite a slight treatment - related reduction in body weight .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of Flector Patch on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
In rat studies , maternal exposure to NSAIDs , as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , increased the incidence of dystocia , delayed parturition , and decreased pup survival .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human - milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Flector Patch , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Flector Patch did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Diclofenac , as with any NSAID , is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to Flector Patch may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken when using Flector Patch in the elderly , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is limited experience with overdose of Flector Patch .
In clinical studies , the maximum single dose administered was one Flector Patch containing 180 mg of diclofenac epolamine .
There were no serious adverse events .
Should systemic side effects occur due to incorrect use or accidental overdose of this product , the general measures recommended for intoxication with non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs should be taken .
For additional information about overdose treatment , call a poison control center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Flector Patch ( 10 cm × 14 cm ) is comprised of an adhesive material containing 1 . 3 % diclofenac epolamine which is applied to a non - woven polyester felt backing and covered with a polypropylene film release liner .
The release liner is removed prior to topical application to the skin .
Diclofenac epolamine is a non - opioid analgesic chemically designated as 2 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino ] benzeneacetic acid , ( 2 - ( pyrrolidin - 1 - yl ) ethanol salt , with a molecular formula of C20H24Cl2N2O3 ( molecular weight 411 . 3 ) , an n - octanol / water partition coefficient of 8 at pH 8 . 5 , and the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each adhesive patch contains 180 mg of diclofenac epolamine ( 13 mg per gram adhesive ) in an aqueous base .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : 1 , 3 - butylene glycol , dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , disodium edetate , D - sorbitol , fragrance ( Dalin PH ) , gelatin , kaolin , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , povidone , propylene glycol , propylparaben , sodium carboxymethylcellulose , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
In pharmacologic studies , diclofenac has shown anti - inflammatory , analgesic , and antipyretic activity .
As with other NSAIDs , its mode of action is not known ; its ability to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , however , may be involved in its anti - inflammatory activity , as well as contribute to its efficacy in relieving pain associated with inflammation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Flector Patch applied to intact skin provides local analgesia by releasing diclofenac epolamine from the patch into the skin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single application of the Flector Patch on the upper inner arm , peak plasma concentrations of diclofenac ( range 0 . 7 – 6 ng / mL ) were noted between 10 – 20 hours of application .
Plasma concentrations of diclofenac in the range of 1 . 3 – 8 . 8 ng / mL were noted after five days with twice - a - day Flector Patch application .
Systemic exposure ( AUC ) and maximum plasma concentrations of diclofenac , after repeated dosing for four days with Flector Patch , were lower ( < 1 % ) than after a single oral 50 - mg diclofenac sodium tablet .
The pharmacokinetics of Flector Patch has been tested in healthy volunteers at rest or undergoing moderate exercise ( cycling 20 min / h for 12 h at a mean HR of 100 . 3 bpm ) .
No clinically relevant differences in systemic absorption were observed , with peak plasma concentrations in the range of 2 . 2 – 8 . 1 ng / mL while resting , and 2 . 7 – 7 . 2 ng / mL during exercise .
Distribution Diclofenac has a very high affinity ( > 99 % ) for human serum albumin .
Diclofenac diffuses into and out of the synovial fluid .
Diffusion into the joint occurs when plasma levels are higher than those in the synovial fluid , after which the process reverses and synovial fluid levels are higher than plasma levels .
It is not known whether diffusion into the joint plays a role in the effectiveness of diclofenac .
Metabolism Five diclofenac metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
The metabolites include 4 ' - hydroxy - , 5 - hydroxy - , 3 ' - hydroxy - , 4 ' , 5 - dihydroxy - and 3 ' - hydroxy - 4 ' - methoxy diclofenac .
The major diclofenac metabolite , 4 ' hydroxy - diclofenac , has very weak pharmacologic activity .
The formation of 4 ' - hydroxy diclofenac is primarily mediated by CPY2C9 .
Both diclofenac and its oxidative metabolites undergo glucuronidation or sulfation followed by biliary excretion .
Acylglucuronidation mediated by UGT2B7 and oxidation mediated by CPY2C8 may also play a role in diclofenac metabolism .
CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of minor metabolites , 5 - hydroxy and 3 ' - hydroxy - diclofenac .
Excretion The plasma elimination half - life of diclofenac after application of Flector Patch is approximately 12 hours .
Diclofenac is eliminated through metabolism and subsequent urinary and biliary excretion of the glucuronide and the sulfate conjugates of the metabolites .
Little or no free unchanged diclofenac is excreted in the urine .
Approximately 65 % of the dose is excreted in the urine and approximately 35 % in the bile as conjugates of unchanged diclofenac plus metabolites .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of either diclofenac epolamine or Flector Patch .
Mutagenesis Diclofenac epolamine is not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains , nor does it induce an increase in metabolic aberrations in cultured human lymphocytes , or the frequency of micronucleated cells in the bone marrow micronucleus test performed in rats .
Impairment of Fertility Male and female Sprague Dawley rats were administered 1 , 3 , or 6 mg / kg / day diclofenac epolamine via oral gavage ( males treated for 60 days prior to conception and during mating period , females treated for 14 days prior to mating through day 19 of gestation ) .
Diclofenac epolamine treatment with 6 mg / kg / day resulted in increased early resorptions and postimplantation losses ; however , no effects on the mating and fertility indices were found .
The 6 mg / kg / day dose corresponds to 3 - times the maximum recommended daily exposure in humans based on a body surface area comparison .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Ankle sprains Efficacy of Flector Patch was demonstrated in two of four studies of patients with minor sprains , strains , and contusions .
Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with the Flector Patch , or a placebo patch identical to the Flector Patch minus the active ingredient .
In the first of these two studies , patients with ankle sprains were treated once daily for a week .
In the second study , patients with sprains , strains and contusions were treated twice daily for up to two weeks .
Pain was assessed over the period of treatment .
Patients treated with the Flector Patch experienced a greater reduction in pain as compared to patients randomized to placebo patch as evidenced by the responder curves presented below .
Figure 1 : Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at Day 3 ; 14 - Day Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at End of Study ; 14 - Day Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at Day 3 ; 7 - Day Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Patients Achieving Various Levels of Pain Relief at End of Study ; 7 - Day Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The Flector Patch is supplied in resealable envelopes , each containing 5 patches ( 10 cm × 14 cm ) , with 6 envelopes per box ( NDC 60793 - 411 - 30 ) .
Each individual patch is embossed with " FLECTOR PATCH < DICLOFENAC EPOLAMINE TOPICAL PATCH > 1 . 3 % " .
• Each patch contains 180 mg of diclofenac epolamine in an aqueous base ( 13 mg of active per gram of adhesive or 1 . 3 % ) .
• The product is intended for topical use only .
• Keep out of reach of children and pets .
• ENVELOPES SHOULD BE SEALED AT ALL TIMES WHEN NOT IN USE .
• Curad ® Hold Tite ™ is a trademark of Medline Industries , Inc . , and Surgilast ® Tubular Elastic Dressing is a trademark of Derma Sciences , Inc .
Storage Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : King Pharmaceuticals Inc . 501 Fifth Street Bristol TN 37620 USA Telephone : 1 - 888 - 840 - 8884 www . FlectorPatch . com Manufactured for : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA , CH - 6903 Lugano , Switzerland Manufactured by : Teikoku Seiyaku Co . , Ltd . , Sanbonmatsu , Kagawa 769 - 2695 Japan FI / 165 1086 Ed .
VI / 2 . 11 Version February , 2011 Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc . 513 Sandydale Drive Nipomo , CA 93444 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See Medication Guide 17 . 1 Information on Medication Guide Inform patients of the following information before initiating therapy with an NSAID and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy .
Encourage patients to read the NSAID Medication Guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed prior to using Flector Patch .
17 . 2 Cardiovascular Effects Flector Patch , like other NSAIDs , may cause serious CV side effects , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Inform patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Gastrointestinal Effects Flector Patch , like other NSAIDs , may cause GI discomfort and , rarely , serious GI side effects , such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , inform patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulceration and bleeding , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Instruct patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 4 Adverse Skin Reactions Flector Patch , like other NSAIDs , can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , SJS , and TEN , which may result in hospitalizations and even death .
Although serious systemic skin reactions may occur without warning , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Advise patients to stop Flector Patch immediately if they develop any type of generalized rash and contact their physicians as soon as possible .
Flector Patch can cause a localized skin reaction at the application site .
Advise patients to contact their physicians as soon as possible if they develop any type of localized application site rash .
Instruct patients not to apply Flector Patch to open skin wounds or infections .
17 . 5 Hepatotoxicity Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to stop therapy with Flector Patch and seek immediate medical therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 6 Weight gain and edema Patients should promptly report to their physician signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema following treatment with Flector Patch [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 7 Anaphylactic Reactions Inform patients of the signs of an anaphylactic reaction ( e . g . difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to seek immediate emergency help .
Anaphylaxis type reactions have been reported with diclofenac products , including Flector Patch [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 8 Preexisting Asthma Inform patients not to use Flector Patch if they have an aspirin - sensitive asthma .
Flector Patch , like other NSAIDs , could cause severe and even fatal bronchospasm in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
Instruct patients to discontinue use of Flector Patch and to immediately seek emergency help if they experience wheezing or shortness of breath .
17 . 9 Eye Exposure Instruct patients to avoid contact of Flector Patch with the eyes and mucosa .
Advise patients that if eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
17 . 10 Effects during pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation , instruct patients to avoid the use of Flector Patch and other NSAIDS , as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 11 General Information on Use • Instruct patients and caregivers to wash their hands after applying , handling or removing the patch .
• Inform patients that , if Flector Patch begins to peel off , the edges of the patch may be taped down .
If problems with adhesion persist , patients may overlay the patch with a mesh netting sleeve , where appropriate ( e . g . to secure patches applied to ankles , knees , or elbows ) .
The mesh netting sleeve ( e . g . Curad ® Hold Tite ™ , Surgilast ® Tubular Elastic Dressing ) must allow air to pass through and not be occlusive ( non - breathable ) .
• Instruct patients not to wear Flector Patch during bathing or showering .
Bathing should take place in between scheduled patch removal and application [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to store Flector Patch and to discard used patches out of the reach of children and pets .
If a child or pet accidentally ingests Flector Patch , instruct patients to seek medical help immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
• Inform patients that Flector Patch should be used only on intact skin .
Distributed by : King Pharmaceuticals Inc 501 Fifth Street Bristol , TN 37620 USA Telephone : 1 - 888 - 840 - 8884 www . FlectorPatch . com Manufactured for : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA , CH - 6903 Lugano , Switzerland Manufactured by : Teikoku Seiyaku Co . , Ltd . , Sanbonmatsu , Kagawa 769 - 2695 Japan FI / 165 1086 Ed .
VI / 2 . 11 Version February , 2011 Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc . 513 Sandydale Drive Nipomo , CA 93444 Medication Guide for Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance increases : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a " coronary artery bypass graft " ( CABG ) .
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called " corticosteroids " and " anticoagulants " • longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant , NSAID medicines should not be used past 30 weeks of pregnancy ..
• if you are breastfeeding , talk to your doctor .
What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious side effects include : Other side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma • stomach pain • constipation • diarrhea • gas • heartburn • nausea • vomiting • dizziness Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • weakness in one part or side of your body • slurred speech • swelling of the face or throat Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over – the – counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over – the – counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
NSAID medicines that need a prescriptionGeneric Name Tradename Celecoxib Celebrex Diclofenac Flector , Cataflam , Voltaren , Arthrotec ( combined with misoprostol ) Diflunisal Dolobid Etodolac Lodine , Lodine XL Fenoprofen Nalfon , Nalfon 200 Flurbirofen Ansaid Ibuprofen Motrin , Tab - Profen , Vicoprofen ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ( combined with oxycodone ) Indomethacin Indocin , Indocin SR , Indo - Lemmon , Indomethagan Ketoprofen Oruvail Ketorolac Toradol Mefenamic Acid Ponstel Meloxicam Mobic Nabumetone Relafen Naproxen Naprosyn , Anaprox , Anaprox DS , EC - Naproxyn , Naprelan , Naprapac ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaprozin Daypro Piroxicam Feldene Sulindac Clinoril Tolmetin Tolectin , Tolectin DS , Tolectin 600 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : King Pharmaceuticals Inc . 501 Fifth Street Bristol , TN 37620 USA Telephone : 1 - 888 - 840 - 8884 www . FlectorPatch . com Manufactured for : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA , CH - 6903 Lugano , Switzerland Manufactured by : Teikoku Seiyaku Co . , Ltd . , Sanbonmatsu , Kagawa 769 - 2695 Japan FI / 165 1086 Ed .
VI / 2 . 11 Version February , 2011 Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc . 513 Sandydale Drive Nipomo , CA 93444 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 3 % Carton NDC 52959 - 518 - 30 FLECTOR ® PATCH ( diclofenac epolamine topical patch ) 1 . 3 % Rx Only 30 PATCHES ( 10 CM X 14 CM EACH ) Change patch once every 12 hours .
Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
IBSA King Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
