Drug Facts Active ingredient Octinoxate 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or brokenskin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply to face with a make - up sponge .
• Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients neopentyl glycol diethylhexanoate , ethylhexyl palmitate , polyethylene , hydrogenated polyisobutene , isononyl isononanoate , octyldodecyl stearoyl stearate , aluminum starch octenyl succinate , candelilla ( Candelilla cera ) wax , pentaerythrityl tetrabehenate , isocetyl stearoyl stearate , jojoba ( Simmondsia chinensis ) seed oil , squalane , nylon - 12 , polyglyceryl - 3 diisostearate , cyclopentasiloxane , polymethylsilsesquioxane , dimethicone / vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer , triethoxycaprylylsilane , aluminum hydroxide , fragrance , polyglyceryl - 3 polydimethyl siloxyethyl dimethicone , silica , stearic acid , PEG - 8 , tocopherol , ascorbyl palmitate , ascorbic acid , citric acid , linalool , butylphenyl methylpropional , alpha - isomethyl ionone , citronellol , benzyl salicylate , geraniol , coumarin , titanium dioxide , iron oxides Kosan Kozmetik Sanayi ve Ticaret A . S . Gebze Organize Sanayi Bolgesi Ihsan Dede Cad . 900 .
SK NO : 133 Gebze , Kocaeli 41480 Turkey Made in Turkey www . flormar . com A Cream that creates the appearance of all day skin perfection with sensorial comfort .
Extreme wearing , light texture adapts to the skin ' s movements with a medium to high covering film .
Glides on with a velvet soft feel that stays lightweight , soft and smooth .
Application : Wash and rinse your latex sponge when you are finished with your application .
Before you put your latex sponge into the container , be sure that it is dried .
Keep away from direct sunlight and keep in a cool place .
After use , close the cap properly .
To report a serious adverse event contact [ 917 ] 768 - 7350 flormar REBORN BB CREAM SUNSCREEN BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Net Wt .
0 . 42 oz ( 12 g ) Product Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Enter section text here [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
