1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR is a combination product containing an H1 - receptor antagonist and a sympathomimetic amine indicated for : • Relief of nasal and non - nasal symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis , including nasal congestion , in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 1 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis CLARINEX - D ® 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets is indicated for the relief of the nasal and non - nasal symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis , including nasal congestion , in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older .
CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should be administered when the antihistaminic properties of desloratadine and the nasal decongestant properties of pseudoephedrine are desired [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablet by the oral route only .
Do not break , chew or crush the tablet .
Swallow the tablet whole .
For oral use only Adults and adolescents 12 years of age and over : The recommended dose of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets is one tablet twice a day .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults and Adolescents 12 years of Age and Over The recommended dose of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets is 1 tablet twice a day , administered approximately 12 hours apart and with or without a meal .
Higher doses or increased dosing frequency of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets have not demonstrated increased effectiveness .
Do not exceed the recommended dose as desloratadine and pseudoephedrine , the active components of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets have been associated with adverse effects at higher doses [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 1 ) and ( 10 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are oval shaped , blue and white bilayer tablets with " D12 " embossed in the blue layer .
Each tablet contains 2 . 5 mg desloratadine in the blue immediate - release layer and 120 mg of pseudoephedrine sulfate USP in the white extended - release layer .
Desloratadine 2 . 5 mg / Pseudoephedrine sulfate 120 mg tablets .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are contraindicated in : • Patients with hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients , or to loratadine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Post - Marketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] • Patients with narrow angle glaucoma • Patients with urinary retention • Patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy or within fourteen ( 14 ) days of stopping such treatment [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease • Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) • Narrow Angle Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Urinary Retention ( 4 ) • Patients Receiving MAO Inhibitors or within 14 days of stopping such treatment ( 4 ) • Severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiovascular and central nervous system effects : Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders .
( 5 . 1 ) .
• Coexisting conditions : Use with caution in patients with increased intraocular pressure , prostatic hypertrophy , diabetes mellitus , or hyperthyroidism ( 5 . 2 ) .
5 . 1 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects The pseudoephedrine sulfate contained in CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , like other sympathomimetic amines can produce cardiovascular and central nervous system ( CNS ) effects in some patients such as insomnia , dizziness , weakness , tremor , or arrhythmias .
In addition central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension has been reported .
Therefore , CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , and should not be used in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease .
5 . 2 Coexisting Conditions CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets contain pseudoephedrine sulfate a sympathomimetic amine and therefore should be used with caution in patients with diabetes and hyperthyroidism .
Also use with caution in patients with prostatic hypertrophy or increased intraocular pressure , as urinary retention and narrow angle glaucoma may occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Co - Administration with Monoamine Oxidase ( MAO ) Inhibitors CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should not be used in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy or within fourteen ( 14 ) days of stopping such treatment as an increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis , may occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions including rash , pruritus , urticaria , edema , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis have been reported after administration of desloratadine a component of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should be stopped and alternative treatment should be considered [ see Post - marketing ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Renal Impairment CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should generally be avoided in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatic Impairment CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should generally be avoided in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Increased Intraocular pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Urinary retention in patients with prostatic hypertrophy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• The most common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 2 % of patients ) were insomnia , headache , mouth dry , fatigue , somnolence , pharyngitis , dizziness , nausea , insomnia and anorexia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Schering Corporation at 800 - 526 - 4099 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety data described below are from 2 clinical trials with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets that included 1248 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis , of which 414 patients received CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets twice daily for up to 2 weeks .
The majority of patients were between 18 and < 65 years of age with a mean age of 35 . 8 years and were predominantly women ( 64 % ) .
Patient ethnicity was 82 % Caucasian , 9 % Black , 6 % Hispanic and 3 % Asian / other ethnicity .
The percentage of subjects receiving CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets and who discontinued from the clinical trials because of an adverse event was 3 . 6 % .
Adverse reactions that were reported by ≥ 2 % of subjects receiving CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are shown in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 : Incidence of Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 2 % of Subjects Receiving CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release TabletsAdverse Reaction CLARINEX - D ® 12 HOUR BID ( N = 414 ) Desloratadine 5 mg QD ( N = 412 ) Pseudoephedrine 120 mg BID ( N = 422 ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Mouth Dry 8 % 2 % 8 % Nausea 2 % 1 % 3 % General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 4 % 2 % 2 % Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 2 % 0 % 2 % Nervous System Disorders Headache 8 % 8 % 9 % Somnolence 3 % 4 % 2 % Dizziness 3 % 2 % 2 % Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 10 % 3 % 13 % Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Pharyngitis 3 % 3 % 3 % There were no relevant differences in adverse reactions for subgroups of patients as defined by gender , age , or race .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials and listed above , adverse events have been identified during post approval use of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse events identified from post - marketing surveillance on the use of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets include tachycardia , palpitations , dyspnea , rash and pruritis .
In addition to these events , the following spontaneous adverse events have been reported during the marketing of desloratadine as a single ingredient product : headache , somnolence , dizziness and rarely hypersensitivity reactions ( such as urticaria , edema and anaphylaxis ) , and elevated liver enzymes including bilirubin and very rarely , hepatitis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
Monoamine Oxidase ( MAO ) Inhibitors : Do not use .
May potentiate the effect of pseudoephedrine on vascular system .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should not be used in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy or within fourteen ( 14 ) days of stopping such treatment because the action of pseudoephedrine a component of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release tablets on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents .
( see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions 5 . 3 ) 7 . 2 Beta - adrenergic blocking agents The antihypertensive effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , methyldopa , and reserpine , may be reduced by sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine .
Exercise caution when using CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets with these agents .
7 . 3 Digitalis Increased ectopic pacemaker activity can occur when pseudoephedrine is used concomitantly with digitalis .
Exercise caution when using CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets with these agents .
7 . 4 Inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4 In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with ketoconazole , erythromycin , or azithromycin resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 7 . 5 Fluoxetine In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with fluoxetine , a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) , resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 7 . 6 Cimetidine In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with cimetidine a histamine H2 - receptor antagonist resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal impairment : Avoid in patients with renal impairment ( 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic impairment : Avoid in patients with hepatic impairment ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine in combination in pregnant women .
Neither are there animal reproduction studies conducted with the combination of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine .
Desloratadine was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits but affected implantation in rats .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Desloratadine was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at approximately 210 and 230 times , respectively , the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
An increase in pre - implantation loss and a decreased number of implantations and fetuses were noted , however , in a separate study in female rats at approximately 120 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Reduced body weight and slow righting reflex were reported in pups at approximately 50 times or greater than the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
Desloratadine had no effect on pup development at approximately 7 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
The AUCs in comparison referred to the desloratadine exposure in rabbits and the sum of desloratadine and its metabolites exposures in rats , respectively [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Desloratadine and pseudoephedrine both pass into breast milk ; therefore , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , taking into account the benefit of the drug to the nursing mother and the possible risk to the child .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The number of subjects ( n = 10 ) ≥ 65 years old treated with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets was too limited to make any formal statistical comparison regarding the efficacy or safety of this drug product in this age group , or to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences between the elderly and younger patients , although the elderly are more likely to have adverse reactions to sympathomimetic amines .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pseudoephedrine , desloratadine , and their metabolites are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with renal impairment .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor the patient for adverse events [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No studies with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets were conducted in subjects with renal impairment .
CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should generally be avoided in patients with renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets or pseudoephedrine were conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment .
CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets should generally be avoided in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Gender No clinically significant gender - related differences were observed in the pharmacokinetic parameters of desloratadine , 3 - hydroxydesloratadine or pseudoephedrine following administration of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
8 . 9 Race No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE There is no information to indicate that abuse or dependency occurs with CLARINEX or CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
Symptomatic and supportive treatment is recommended .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine are not eliminated by hemodialysis .
10 . 1 Desloratadine Information regarding acute overdosage with desloratadine is limited to experience from postmarketing adverse event reports and from clinical trials conducted during the development of the CLARINEX product .
In the reported cases of overdose , there were no significant adverse events that were attributed to desloratadine .
In a dose - ranging trial , at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg / day , somnolence was reported .
In another study , no clinically relevant adverse events were reported in normal male and female volunteers who were given single daily doses of CLARINEX 45 mg for 10 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Lethality occurred in rats at oral doses of 250 mg / kg or greater ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 120 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
The oral median lethal dose in mice was 353 mg / kg ( estimated desloratadine exposure was approximately 290 times the human daily oral dose on an mg / m2 basis ) .
No deaths occurred at oral doses up to 250 mg / kg in monkeys ( estimated desloratadine exposure was approximately 810 times the human daily oral dose on an mg / m2 basis ) .
10 . 2 Sympathomimetics In large doses , sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine may give rise to giddiness , headache , nausea , vomiting , sweating , thirst , tachycardia , precordial pain , palpitations , difficulty in micturition , muscle weakness and tenseness , anxiety , restlessness , and insomnia .
Many patients can present a toxic psychosis with delusions and hallucinations .
Some may develop cardiac arrhythmias , circulatory collapse , convulsions , coma , and respiratory failure .
11 DESCRIPTION CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are oval - shaped blue and white bilayer tablets containing 2 . 5 mg desloratadine in the blue immediate - release layer and 120 mg of pseudoephedrine sulfate , USP in the white extended - release layer which is released slowly , allowing for twice - daily administration .
The inactive ingredients contained in CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are hypromellose USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , povidone USP , silicon dioxide NF , magnesium stearate NF , corn starch NF , edetate disodium USP , citric acid anhydrous USP , stearic acid NF and FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake dye .
Desloratadine , 1 of the 2 active ingredients of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , is a white to off - white powder that is slightly soluble in water , but very soluble in ethanol and propylene glycol .
It has an empirical formula : C19H19ClN2 and a molecular weight of 310 . 8 .
The chemical name is 8 - chloro - 6 , 11 - dihydro - 11 - ( 4 - piperdinylidene ) - 5 H - benzo [ 5 , 6 ] cyclohepta [ 1 , 2 - b ] pyridine and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pseudoephedrine sulfate , the other active ingredient of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , is the synthetic salt of one of the naturally occurring dextrorotatory diastereomers of ephedrine and is classified as an indirect sympathomimetic amine .
Pseudoephedrine sulfate is a colorless hygroscopic crystal or white , hygroscopic crystalline powder , practically odorless , with a bitter taste .
It is very soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
The empirical formula for pseudoephedrine sulfate is ( C10H15NO ) 2 • H2SO4 ; the chemical name is benzenemethanol , α - [ 1 - ( methylamino ) ethyl ] - , [ S - ( R * , R * ) ] - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; and the chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Desloratadine is a long acting tricyclic histamine antagonist with selective H1 - receptor histamine antagonist activity .
Receptor binding data indicate that at a concentration of 2 to 3 ng / mL ( 7 nanomolar ) , desloratadine shows significant interaction with the human histamine H1 receptor .
Desloratadine inhibited histamine release from human mast cells in vitro .
Results of a radiolabeled tissue distribution study in rats and a radioligand H1 - receptor - binding study in guinea pigs showed that desloratadine does not readily cross the blood brain barrier .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Pseudoephedrine sulfate is an orally active sympathomimetic amine and exerts a decongestant action on the nasal mucosa .
Pseudoephedrine sulfate is recognized as an effective agent for the relief of nasal congestion due to allergic rhinitis .
Pseudoephedrine produces peripheral effects similar to those of ephedrine and central effects similar to , but less intense than , amphetamines .
It has the potential for excitatory side effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Wheal and Flare : Human histamine skin wheal studies following single and repeated 5 mg doses of desloratadine have shown that the drug exhibits an antihistaminic effect by 1 hour ; this activity may persist for as long as 24 hours .
There was no evidence of histamine - induced skin wheal tachyphylaxis within the desloratadine 5 mg group over the 28 day treatment period .
The clinical relevance of histamine wheal skin testing is unknown .
Effects on QTc : In clinical trials for CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , ECGs were recorded at baseline and endpoint within 1 to 3 hours after the last dose .
The majority of ECGs were normal at both baseline and endpoint .
No clinically meaningful changes were observed following treatment with CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets for any ECG parameter , including the QTc interval .
An increase in the ventricular rate of 7 . 1 and 6 . 4 bpm was observed in the CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets and pseudoephedrine groups , respectively , compared to an increase of 3 . 2 bpm in subjects receiving desloratadine alone .
Single daily doses of CLARINEX 45 mg were given to normal male and female volunteers for 10 days .
All ECGs obtained in this study were manually read in a blinded fashion by a cardiologist .
In the CLARINEX - treated subjects , there was a mean increase in the maximum heart rate of 9 . 2 bpm relative to placebo .
The QT interval was corrected for heart rate ( QTc ) by both Bazett ' s and Fridericia methods .
Using the QTc ( Bazett ) there was a mean increase of 8 . 1 msec in the CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
Using QTc ( Fridericia ) there was a mean increase of 0 . 4 msec in CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
No clinically relevant adverse events were reported .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : In a single dose pharmacokinetic study , the mean time to maximum plasma concentrations ( Tmax ) for desloratadine occurred at approximately 4 to 5 hours post dose and mean peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of approximately 1 . 09 ng / mL and 31 . 6 ng ∙ hr / mL , respectively , were observed .
In another pharmacokinetic study , food and grapefruit juice had no effect on the bioavailability ( Cmax and AUC ) of desloratadine .
For pseudoephedrine , the mean Tmax occurred at 6 to 7 hours post dose and mean peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of approximately 263 ng / mL and 4588 ng ∙ hr / mL , respectively , were observed .
Food had no effect on the bioavailability ( Cmax and AUC ) of pseudoephedrine .
Following oral administration of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets twice daily for 14 days in healthy volunteers , steady - state conditions were reached on Day 10 for desloratadine , 3 - hydroxydesloratadine and pseudoephedrine .
For desloratadine , mean steady - state peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC 0 – 12 h ) of approximately 1 . 7 ng / mL and 16 ng ∙ hr / mL were observed , respectively .
For pseudoephedrine , mean steady state peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and AUC ( 0 – 12 h ) of 459 ng / mL and 4658 ng ∙ hr / mL were observed .
Distribution : Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine are approximately 82 % to 87 % and 85 % to 89 % , bound to plasma proteins , respectively .
Protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered in subjects with impaired renal function .
Metabolism : Desloratadine ( a major metabolite of loratadine ) is extensively metabolized to 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , an active metabolite , which is subsequently glucuronidated .
The enzyme ( s ) responsible for the formation of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine have not been identified .
Data from clinical trials with desloratadine indicate that a subset of the general population has a decreased ability to form 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , and are poor metabolizers of desloratadine .
In pharmacokinetic studies ( n = 3748 ) , approximately 6 % of subjects were poor metabolizers of desloratadine ( defined as a subject with an AUC ratio of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine to desloratadine less than 0 . 1 , or a subject with a desloratadine half - life exceeding 50 hours ) .
These pharmacokinetic studies included subjects between the ages of 2 and 70 years , including 977 subjects aged 2 to 5 years , 1575 subjects aged 6 to 11 years , and 1196 subjects aged 12 to 70 years .
There was no difference in the prevalence of poor metabolizers across age groups .
The frequency of poor metabolizers was higher in Blacks ( 17 % , n = 988 ) as compared to Caucasians ( 2 % , n = 1462 ) and Hispanics ( 2 % , n = 1063 ) .
The median exposure ( AUC ) to desloratadine in the poor metabolizers was approximately 6 - fold greater than in the subjects who are not poor metabolizers .
Subjects who are poor metabolizers of desloratadine cannot be prospectively identified and will be exposed to higher levels of desloratadine following dosing with the recommended dose of desloratadine .
In multidose clinical safety studies , where metabolizer status was prospectively identified , a total of 94 poor metabolizers and 123 normal metabolizers were enrolled and treated with CLARINEX Syrup for 15 to 35 days .
In these studies , no overall differences in safety were observed between poor metabolizers and normal metabolizers .
Although not seen in these studies , an increased risk of exposure - related adverse events in patients who are poor metabolizers cannot be ruled out .
Pseudoephedrine alone is incompletely metabolized ( less than 1 % ) in the liver by N - demethylation to an inactive metabolite .
The drug and its metabolite are excreted in the urine .
About 55 % to 96 % of an administered dose of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Elimination : Following single dose administration of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , the mean plasma elimination half - life of desloratadine was approximately 27 hours .
In another study , following administration of single oral doses of desloratadine 5 mg , Cmax and AUC values increased in a dose proportional manner following single oral doses between 5 and 20 mg .
The degree of accumulation after 14 days of dosing was consistent with the half - life and dosing frequency .
A human mass balance study documented a recovery of approximately 87 % of the 14 C - desloratadine dose , which was equally distributed in urine and feces as metabolic products .
Analysis of plasma 3 - hydroxydesloratadine showed similar Tmax and half - life values compared to desloratadine .
The mean elimination half - life of pseudoephedrine is dependent on urinary pH . The elimination half - life is approximately 3 to 6 or 9 to 16 hours when the urinary pH is 5 or 8 , respectively .
Geriatric Subjects : Following multiple - dose administration of CLARINEX Tablets , the mean Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 20 % greater than in younger subjects ( < 65 years old ) .
The oral total body clearance ( CL / F ) when normalized for body weight was similar between the 2 age groups .
The mean plasma elimination half - life of desloratadine was 33 . 7 hr in subjects ≥ 65 years old .
The pharmacokinetics for 3 - hydroxydesloratadine appeared unchanged in older vs . younger subjects .
These age - related differences are unlikely to be clinically relevant and no dosage adjustment is recommended in elderly patients .
Pediatric Subjects : CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are not an appropriate dosage form for use in pediatric patients below 12 years of age .
Renally Impaired : Following a single dose of desloratadine 7 . 5 mg pharmacokinetics were characterized in subjects with mild ( n = 7 ; creatinine clearance 51 – 69 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , moderate ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 34 – 43 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and severe ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 5 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) renal impairment or hemodialysis dependent ( n = 6 ) subjects .
In subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment , median Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 2 - and 1 . 9 - fold , respectively , relative to subjects with normal renal function .
In subjects with severe renal impairment or who were hemodialysis dependent , Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 7 - and 2 . 5 - fold , respectively .
Minimal changes in 3 - hydroxydesloratadine concentrations were observed .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were poorly removed by hemodialysis .
Plasma protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered by renal impairment .
Pseudoephedrine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine as unchanged drug with the remainder apparently being metabolized in the liver .
Therefore , pseudoephedrine may accumulate in patients with renal impairment .
Hepatically Impaired : Following a single oral dose of desloratadine , pharmacokinetics were characterized in subjects with mild ( n = 4 ) , moderate ( n = 4 ) and severe ( n = 4 ) hepatic impairment as defined by the Child - Pugh classification of hepatic impairment and 8 subjects with normal hepatic function .
Subjects with hepatic impairment , regardless of severity , had approximately a 2 . 4 - fold increase in AUC as compared with normal subjects .
The apparent oral clearance of desloratadine in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment was 37 % , 36 % , and 28 % of that in normal subjects , respectively .
An increase in the mean elimination half - life of desloratadine in subjects with hepatic impairment was observed .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , the mean Cmax and AUC values for subjects with hepatic impairment combined were not statistically significantly different from subjects with normal hepatic function .
Gender : Female subjects treated for 14 days with CLARINEX Tablets had 10 % and 3 % higher desloratadine Cmax and AUC values , respectively , compared with male subjects .
The 3 - hydroxydesloratadine Cmax and AUC values were also increased by 45 % and 48 % , respectively , in females compared with males .
However , these apparent differences are not considered to be clinically relevant .
Race : Following 14 days of treatment with CLARINEX Tablets , the Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 18 % and 32 % higher , respectively in Blacks compared with Caucasians .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine there was a corresponding 10 % reduction in Cmax and AUC values in Blacks compared to Caucasians .
These differences are not considered to be clinically relevant .
Drug interaction : In 2 controlled crossover clinical pharmacology studies in healthy male ( n = 12 in each study ) and female ( n = 12 in each study ) subjects , desloratadine 7 . 5 mg ( 1 . 5 times the daily dose ) once daily was co - administered with erythromycin 500 mg every 8 hours or ketoconazole 200 mg every 12 hours for 10 days .
In 3 separate controlled , parallel group clinical pharmacology studies , desloratadine at the clinical dose of 5 mg has been coadministered with azithromycin 500 mg followed by 250 mg once daily for 4 days ( n = 18 ) or with fluoxetine 20 mg once daily for 7 days after a 23 - day pretreatment period with fluoxetine ( n = 18 ) or with cimetidine 600 mg every 12 hours for 14 days ( n = 18 ) under steady state conditions to healthy male and female subjects .
Although increased plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC 0 – 24 hrs ) of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were observed ( see Table 2 ) , there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine , as assessed by electrocardiographic parameters ( including the corrected QT interval ) , clinical laboratory tests , vital signs and adverse events .
TABLE 2 Changes in Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine Pharmacokinetics in Healthy Male and Female Subjects Desloratadine 3 - hydroxydesloratadine Cmax AUC 0 – 24 hrs Cmax AUC 0 – 24 hrs Erythromycin ( 500 mg Q8h ) + 24 % + 14 % + 43 % + 40 % Ketoconazole ( 200 mg Q12h ) + 45 % + 39 % + 43 % + 72 % Azithromycin ( 500 mg Day 1 , 250 mg QD × 4 days ) + 15 % + 5 % + 15 % + 4 % Fluoxetine ( 20 mg QD ) + 15 % + 0 % + 17 % + 13 % Cimetidine ( 600 mg Q12h ) + 12 % + 19 % - 11 % - 3 % 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no animal or laboratory studies on the combination product of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine sulfate to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Carcinogenicity Studies : The carcinogenic potential of desloratadine was assessed using a loratadine study in rats and a desloratadine study in mice .
In a 2 - year study in rats , loratadine was administered in the diet at doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 30 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
A significantly higher incidence of hepatocellular tumors ( combined adenomas and carcinomas ) was observed in males given 10 mg / kg / day of loratadine and in males and females given 25 mg / kg / day of loratadine .
The estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures in rats given 10 mg / kg of loratadine were approximately 7 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
The clinical significance of these findings during long - term use of desloratadine is not known .
In a 2 - year dietary study in mice , males and females given up to 16 mg / kg / day and 32 mg / kg / day desloratadine , respectively , did not show significant increases in the incidence of any tumors .
The estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures in mice at these doses were 12 and 27 times , respectively , the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose .
Genotoxicity Studies : In genotoxicity studies with desloratadine , there was no evidence of genotoxic potential in a reverse mutation assay ( Salmonella / E .
coli mammalian microsome bacterial mutagenicity assay ) or in 2 assays for chromosomal aberrations ( human peripheral blood lymphocyte clastogenicity assay and mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Impairment of Fertility : There was no effect on female fertility in rats at desloratadine doses up to 24 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 130 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
A male - specific decrease in fertility , demonstrated by reduced female conception rates , decreased sperm numbers and motility , and histopathologic testicular changes , occurred at an oral desloratadine dose of 12 mg / kg ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 45 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on fertility in rats at an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 8 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Reproductive Toxicology Studies : Desloratadine was not teratogenic in rats at doses up to 48 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 210 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) or in rabbits at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine exposures were approximately 230 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
In a separate study , an increase in pre - implantation loss and a decreased number of implantations and fetuses were noted in female rats at 24 mg / kg ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 120 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Reduced body weight and slow righting reflex were reported in pups at doses of 9 mg / kg / day or greater ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 50 times or greater than the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on pup development at an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( estimated desloratadine and desloratadine metabolite exposures were approximately 7 times the AUC in humans at the recommended daily oral dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis The clinical efficacy and safety of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets was evaluated in two 2 - week multicenter , randomized parallel group clinical trials involving 1248 subjects 12 to 78 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis , 414 of whom received CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
In the 2 trials , subjects were randomized to receive CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets twice daily , CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily , or sustained - release pseudoephedrine tablet 120 mg twice daily for 2 weeks .
The majority of patients were between 18 and < 65 years of age with a mean age of 35 . 8 years and were predominantly women ( 64 % ) .
Patient ethnicity was 82 % Caucasian , 9 % Black , 6 % Hispanic and 3 % Asian / other ethnicity .
Primary efficacy variable was twice - daily reflective patient scoring of 4 nasal symptoms ( rhinorrhea , nasal stuffiness / congestion , nasal itching , and sneezing ) and four non - nasal symptoms ( itching / burning eyes , tearing / watering eyes , redness of eyes , and itching of ears / palate ) on a 4 point scale ( 0 = none , 1 = mild , 2 = moderate , and 3 = severe ) .
In both trials , the antihistaminic efficacy of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , as measured by total symptom score excluding nasal congestion , was significantly greater than pseudoephedrine alone over the 2 - week treatment period ; and the decongestant efficacy of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets , as measured by nasal stuffiness / congestion , was significantly greater than CLARINEX ( desloratadine alone ) over the 2 - week treatment period .
Primary efficacy variable results from 1 of 2 trials are shown in Table 3 .
TABLE 3 : Changes in Symptoms in a 2 - Week Clinical Trial in Subjects With Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis Treatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline [ 1 ] ( sem ) Change ( % Change ) from Baseline [ 2 ] ( sem ) CLARINEX - D ® 12 HOUR Comparison to Components [ 3 ] ( P - value ) Sem = Standard Error of the Mean Total Symptom Score ( Excluding Nasal Congestion ) CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets BID ( 199 ) 14 . 18 ( 0 . 21 ) - 6 . 54 ( - 46 . 0 ) ( 0 . 30 ) - Pseudoephedrine tablet 120 mg BID ( 197 ) 14 . 06 ( 0 . 21 ) - 5 . 07 ( - 35 . 9 ) ( 0 . 30 ) P < 0 . 001 CLARINEX ® 5 mg Tablets QD ( 197 ) 14 . 82 ( 0 . 21 ) - 5 . 09 ( - 33 . 5 ) ( 0 . 30 ) P < 0 . 001 Nasal Stuffiness / Congestion CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets BID ( 199 ) 2 . 47 ( 0 . 027 ) - 0 . 93 ( - 37 . 4 ) ( 0 . 046 ) - Pseudoephedrine tablet 120 mg BID ( 197 ) 2 . 46 ( 0 . 027 ) - 0 . 75 ( - 31 . 2 ) ( 0 . 046 ) P = 0 . 006 CLARINEX ® 5 mg Tablets QD ( 197 ) 2 . 50 ( 0 . 027 ) - 0 . 66 ( - 26 . 7 ) ( 0 . 046 ) P < 0 . 001 [ 1 ] To qualify at Baseline , the sum of the twice - daily diary reflective scores for the 3 days prior to Baseline and the morning of the Baseline visit were to total ≥ 42 for total nasal symptom score ( sum of 4 nasal symptoms of rhinorrhea , nasal stuffiness / congestion , nasal itching , and sneezing ) and a total of ≥ 35 for total non - nasal symptoms score ( sum of 4 non - nasal symptoms of itching / burning eyes , tearing / watering eyes , redness of eyes , and itching of ears / palate ) , and a score of ≥ 14 for each of the individual symptoms of nasal stuffiness / congestion and rhinorrhea .
Each symptom was scored on a 4 - point severity scale ( 0 = none , 1 = mild , 2 = moderate , 3 = severe ) .
[ 2 ] Mean reduction in score averaged over the 2 - week treatment period .
[ 3 ] The comparison of interest is shown bolded .
There were no significant differences in the efficacy of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets across subgroups of subjects defined by gender , age , or race .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are oval - shaped , blue and white bilayer tablets with " D12 " embossed in the blue layer , containing 2 . 5 mg desloratadine in the blue immediate - release layer and 120 mg of pseudoephedrine sulfate USP in the white extended - release layer .
CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets are supplied in Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 5708 - 0 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5708 - 1 Storage : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid exposure at or above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA Approved Patient Labeling ] 17 . 1 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Patients should be informed that pseudoephedrine , on of the active ingredients in CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets may cause cardiovascular or central nervous system effects such as insomnia , dizziness , tremor , or arrhythmia .
17 . 2 Dosing Patients should be advised not to increase the dose or dosing frequency of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
17 . 3 Additional Antihistamines and / or Decongestants Patients should be advised against the concurrent use of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets with other antihistamines and / or decongestants .
17 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase ( MAO ) Inhibitors Patients should be informed that due to its pseudoephedrine component , they should not use CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR with a monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor or within 14 days of stopping use of an MAO inhibitor .
17 . 5 Coexisting Conditions Patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease , narrow - angle glaucoma , or urinary retention should be advised not to use CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets .
17 . 6 Instructions for Use Patients should be instructed not to break , crush or chew the tablet ; the tablet should be swallowed whole , and can be taken without regard to meals .
Manufactured by Schering Corporation , a subsidiary of Schering - Plough Corporation , Kenilworth , NJ 07033 USA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2006 , 2009 , Schering Corporation .
All rights reserved .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 659 , 716 ; 4 , 863 , 931 ; 5 , 595 , 997 ; and 6 , 100 , 274 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PATIENT INFORMATION CLARINEX - D ( CLA - RI - NEX ) 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ( desloratadine and pseudoephedrine sulfate ) Read the Patient Information that comes with CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet is a summary of the information for patients .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you additional information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets is a prescription medicine that contains the medicines desloratadine ( an antihistamine ) and pseudoephedrine ( a nasal decongestant ) .
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets is used to help control the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis ( sneezing , stuffy nose , runny nose and itching of the nose ) in adults and children 12 years and older .
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets is not for children under 12 years of age .
Who should not take CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
Do not take CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets if you : • are allergic to desloratadine or pseudoephedrine sulfate or any of the ingredients in CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets .
• are allergic to loratadine ( Alavert , Claritin ) • have narrow angle glaucoma • have problems with urination ( urinary retention ) • take a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) medicine to treat depression , or if you stopped taking an MAOI medicine within the last 2 weeks .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if you take an MAOI medicine .
• have severe high blood pressure • have severe heart disease Talk to your doctor before taking this medicine if you have any of these conditions .
What should I tell my doctor before taking CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
Before you take CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have any of the conditions listed in the section " Who should not take CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ? "
• diabetes • hyperthyroidism • have prostate problems • have liver or kidney problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines your take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) .
You should not use CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets if you take a MAOI or within 2 weeks of stopping an MAOI .
• methyldopa • reserpine ( Serpalan ) • digitalis ( Digoxin , Lanoxicaps , Lanoxin ) ketoconazole ( Nizoral ) • erythromycin ( Ery - tab , Eryc , PCE ) • azithromycin ( Zithromax , Zmax ) • antihistamines • other decongestant medicines Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
Take CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets can be taken with or without food .
• Swallow CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets whole .
Do not break , crush , or chew CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets whole , tell your doctor .
You may need a different medicine .
• Take 1 CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablet 2 times a day ( every 12 hours ) .
What are the possible side effects of CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • Cardiovascular and central nervous system effects , such as • unable to sleep ( insomnia ) • dizziness • weakness • tremor • irregular heart beat • seizure • low blood pressure • Increased sleepiness or tiredness can happen if you take more CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets than your doctor prescribed to you .
• Allergic reactions .
Stop taking CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets and call your doctor right away or get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • rash • itching • hives • swelling of your lips , tongue , face , and throat • shortness of breath or trouble breathing The most common side effects of CLARINEX - D 12 HOUR Extended Release Tablets include : • unable to sleep ( insomnia ) • sore throat • headache • dizziness • dry mouth • nausea • tiredness • loss of appetite • sleepiness Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
• Store CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets at 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) • Keep CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets dry and out of the light .
Keep CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about CLARINEX - D 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www .
CLARINEX . com What are the ingredients in CLARINEX - D ® 12 Hour Extended Release Tablets ?
Active ingredients : desloratadine and pseudoephedrine sulfate Inactive ingredients : hypromellose USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , povidone USP , silicon dioxide NF , magnesium stearate NF , corn starch NF , edetate disodium USP , citric acid anhydrous USP , stearic acid NF and FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake dye .
Manufactured by Schering Corporation , a subsidiary of Schering - Plough Corporation , Kenilworth , NJ 07033 USA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rev : Month / Year © 2006 , 2009 , Schering Corporation .
All rights reserved .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 659 , 716 ; 4 , 863 , 931 ; 5 , 595 , 997 ; and 6 , 100 , 274 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CLARINEX - D ® 12 HOUR ( desloratadine 2 . 5 mg / pseudoephedrine sulfate , USP 120 mg ) EXTENDED RELEASE TABLETS Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
