Drug Facts Active Ingredients Methyl Salicylate 28 % Menthol 10 % Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses : For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , sprains , strains and bruises Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use if you are allergic to any of the active or inactive ingredients .
Do not use : on wounds damaged , broken , or irritated skin .
With a heating pad .
Immediately before or after taking a bath or shower .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : Condition worsens .
Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Skin irritation occurs .
When using this product , do not : heat , microwave , add to hot water or any container with heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Avoid contact with lips , eyes , nose and any mucous membranes at all times .
Do not bandage .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 - 4 times daily .
A temporary burning may be felt when applied , but usually disappears with continued use .
Wash hands thoroughly after use to avoid spreading liniment to the eyes or other sensitive areas of the body .
If applying liniment to the hands wait 30 minutes before washing hands .
Initial pain relief is usually noted within 1 - 2 weeks .
If condition does not improve in 4 weeks discontinue use of this product .
Children under 12 years of age : consult doctor before use .
Other Information : Store at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Isopropyl Palmitate , Glyceryl Stearate , Peg - 100 Stearate , Cetearyl Alcohol and Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Stearyl Alcohol , Phenoxyethanol , Benzoic Acid , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycereth - 2 Cocoate , Hydroxypropyl Methyl Cellulose , Acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Salix Alba ( Willow ) Bark Extract , Zingiber Officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extract , Gaultheria Procumbens ( Wintergreen ) Leaf Extract , Zanthoxylum Americanum Bark Extract , Pinus Pinaster Bark / Bud Extract , Boswellia Serrata Gum Triple Action Pain Relief Analgesic , Anesthetic and Anti - inflammatory Muscular Liniment TORCEDURAS / SIMPLE BACK PAIN • ARTHRITIS • BRUISES • SPRAINS • STRAINS WWW . FLANAXUSA . COM Questions / Comments ?
Distributed by Belmora LLC 2011 Crystal Dr . Suite 400 Arlington , VA 22202 1 - 888 - 799 - 2877 www . flanaxusa . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
