1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) is an anticholinergic indicated for use in : anesthesia ( all ages ) • for reduction of salivary , tracheobronchial , and pharyngeal secretions , reduction of volume and acidity of gastric secretions , and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation , • intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug - induced or vagal reflex - associated arrhythmias , and • for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine given to reverse the neuromuscular blockade due to non - depolarizing agents .
peptic ulcer ( adults ) • as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated .
Glycopyrrolate Injection is an anticholinergic indicated : in anesthesia ( adult and pediatric patients ) • for reduction of airway or gastric secretions , and volume and acidity of gastric secretions , and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation , • intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug - induced or vagal reflex - associated arrhythmias , and • for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents .
( 1 ) in peptic ulcer ( adults ) • as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or oral medication is not tolerated .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glycopyrrolate Injection may be administered intramuscularly , or intravenously , without dilution , in the following indications : Adults ( 2 . 2 ) Preanesthetic Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IM , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia Intraoperative Medication : single doses of 0 . 1 mg IV and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade : 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer : 0 . 1 mg IV or IM at 4 - hour intervals , 3 or 4 times daily Pediatric patients ( 2 . 3 ) Preanesthetic Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IM , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia .
Patients under 2 years of age may require up to 0 . 009 mg / kg Intraoperative Medication : 0 . 004 mg / kg IV , not to exceed 0 . 1 mg in a single dose and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade : 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer : Glycopyrolate Injection is not indicated for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients Do not use prefilled syringe to administer a dose of less than 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) .
( 2 . 3 ) See Full Prescribing Information for preparation , handling , and instructions for use of pre - filled syringe ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing and Administration Information • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
• Glycopyrrolate Injection may be administered intramuscularly , or intravenously , without dilution .
• Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time .
• Do not dilute for IV push .
• Do not re - sterilize the syringe .
• Do not use this product on a sterile field .
• This product is for single dose only .
2 . 2 Dosing in Adults Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate Injection is 0 . 004 mg / kg by intramuscular injection , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Intraoperative Medication Glycopyrrolate Injection may be used during surgery to counteract drug - induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias ( e . g . , bradycardia ) .
It should be administered intravenously as single doses of 0 . 1 mg and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
Attempt to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and perform the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate Injection is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine .
Peptic Ulcer The usual recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate Injection is 0 . 1 mg administered at 4 - hour intervals , 3 or 4 times daily intravenously or intramuscularly .
Where more profound effect is required , 0 . 2 mg may be given .
Some patients may need only a single dose .
Frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily .
2 . 3 Dosing in Pediatric Patients Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate Injection in pediatric patients is 0 . 004 mg / kg intramuscularly , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Patients under 2 years of age may require up to 0 . 009 mg / kg .
Do not use this prefilled syringe to administer a dose of less than 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) .
Intraoperative Medication Because of the long duration of action of Glycopyrrolate Injection if used as preanesthetic medication , additional Glycopyrrolate Injection for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed ; in the event it is required the recommended pediatric dose is 0 . 004 mg / kg intravenously , not to exceed 0 . 1 mg in a single dose which may be repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
Attempt to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and perform the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance .
Do not use this prefilled syringe to administer a dose of less than 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended pediatric dose of Glycopyrrolate Injection is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine .
In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects , the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe .
Do not use this prefilled syringe to administer a dose of less than 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) .
Peptic Ulcer Glycopyrrolate Injection is not indicated for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients .
2 . 4 Preparation and Handling Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5 % and 10 % in water , or saline , dextrose 5 % in sodium chloride 0 . 45 % , sodium chloride 0 . 9 % , and Ringer ' s Injection .
Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer ' s solution .
Admixture Compatibilities Physical Compatibility This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co - administration of Glycopyrrolate Injection with these drugs .
Glycopyrrolate Injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms : atropine sulfate , USP ; physostigmine salicylate ; diphenhydramine HCl ; codeine phosphate , USP ; benz - quinamide HCl ; hydromorphone HCl , USP ; droperidol ; levorphanol tartrate ; lidocaine , USP ; meperidine HCl , USP ; pyridostigmine bromide ; morphine sulfate , USP ; nalbuphine HCl ; oxymorphone HCl ; procaine HCl , USP ; promethazine HCl , USP ; neostigmine methylsulfate , USP ; scopolamine HBr , USP ; butorphanol tartrate ; fentanyl citrate ; trimethobenzamide HCl ; and hydroxyzine HCl .
Glycopyrrolate Injection may be administered via the tubing of a running infusion of normal saline .
Admixture Incompatibilities Physical Incompatibility Because the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6 . 0 do not combine Glycopyrrolate Injection in the same syringe with methohexital Na ; chloramphenicol Na succinate ; dimenhydrinate ; pentobarbital Na ; thiopental Na ; secobarbital Na ; sodium bicarbonate ; diazepam ; dexamethasone Na phosphate ; or pentazocine lactate .
These mixtures will result in a pH higher than 6 . 0 and may result in gas production or precipitation .
2 . 5 Instructions for Use of Pre - filled Syringe : Figure 1 : Outer Packaging and Prefilled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Inspect the outer packaging ( blister pack ) to confirm the integrity of the packaging .
Do not use if the blister pack or the prefilled syringe has been damaged .
• Remove the syringe from the outer packaging .
( See Figure 2 ) Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Visually inspect the syringe .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• Twist off the syringe tip cap .
Do not remove the label around the luer lock collar .
( See Figure 3 ) Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Expel air bubble ( s ) .
Adjust the dose ( if applicable ) .
• Administer the dose ensuring that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration .
• Discard the used syringe into an appropriate receptacle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP , is a clear , colorless solution available in 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) single - dose , prefilled , disposable syringes .
Injection : 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) prefilled , single - dose , disposable syringes .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate Injection is contraindicated in : • patients with known hypersensitivity to Glycopyrrolate Injection or any of its inactive ingredients .
• peptic ulcer patients with the following concurrent conditions : glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
• Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients .
( 4 ) • Peptic ulcer patients with glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon ; complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Precipitation of Acute Glaucoma : Glycopyrrolate Injection may cause mydriasis and increase intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma .
Advise patients with glaucoma to promptly seek medical care if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma .
( 5 . 1 ) • Drowsiness or Blurred Vision : May cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Advise patients not to drive or perform hazardous work until resolved .
( 5 . 2 ) • Heat Prostration : Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperatures after receiving Glycopyrrolate Injection .
( 5 . 3 ) • Intestinal Obstruction : Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction .
Avoid use in patients with diarrhea and ileostomy or colostomy .
( 5 . 4 ) • Tachycardia : Increase in heart rate may occur .
Use with caution in patients with coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , or hyperthyroidism .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Precipitation of Acute Glaucoma Glycopyrrolate Injection may cause mydriasis and increase intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma .
Advise patients with glaucoma to promptly seek medical care in the event that they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma ( pain and reddening of the eyes , accompanied by dilated pupils ) .
5 . 2 Drowsiness or Blurred Vision Glycopyrrolate Injection may cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Warn patients not to participate in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work , until these issues resolve .
5 . 3 Heat Prostration In the presence of fever , high environmental temperature , and / or during physical exercise , heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents including Glycopyrrolate Injection ( due to decreased sweating ) , particularly in children and the elderly .
Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperature after receiving Glycopyrrolate Injection .
5 . 4 Intestinal Obstruction Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with Glycopyrrolate Injection is inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Avoid use in patients with these conditions .
5 . 5 Tachycardia Investigate any tachycardia before giving Glycopyrrolate Injection because an increase in the heart rate may occur .
Use with caution in patients with coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , and / or hyperthyroidism .
5 . 6 Risk of Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Renal elimination of glycopyrrolate may be severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary in this population [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] 5 . 7 Autonomic Neuropathy , Hepatic Disease , Ulcerative Colitis , Prostatic Hypertrophy , or Hiatal Hernia Use Glycopyrrolate Injection with caution in the elderly and in all patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic disease , ulcerative colitis , prostatic hypertrophy , or hiatal hernia , because anticholinergic drugs may aggravate these conditions .
Consider dose reduction and closely monitor the elderly and patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic disease , ulcerative colitis , prostatic hypertrophy , or hiatal hernia .
5 . 8 Delayed Gastric Emptying / Gastric Stasis The use of anticholinergetic drugs , including Glycopyrrolate Injection , in the treatment of gastric ulcer may produce a delay in gastric emptying due to antral statis .
Monitor patients for symptoms such as vomiting , dyspepsia , early satiety , abdominal distention , and increased abdominal pain .
Discontinue Glycopyrrolate Injection treatment if these symptoms develop or worsen on treatment .
5 . 9 Light Sensitivity Patients may experience sensitivity of the eyes to light .
Advise patients to protect their eyes from light after receiving Glycopyrrolate Injection .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics include xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis ( dilation of the pupil ) ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; decreased sweating ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ; hypersensitivity ; urticaria , pruritus , dry skin , and other dermal manifestations ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement , especially in elderly persons .
The following adverse events have been reported from post - marketing experience with glycopyrrolate : malignant hyperthermia ; cardiac arrhythmias ( including bradycardia , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation ) ; cardiac arrest ; hypertension ; hypotension ; seizures ; and respiratory arrest .
Post - marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase .
Injection site reactions including pruritus , edema , erythema , and pain have also been reported .
Most common adverse reactions are related to anticholinergic pharmacology and may include xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis ( dilation of the pupil ) ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; tachycardia ; bradycardia ; palpitation ; and decreased sweating .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concurrent use of Glycopyrrolate Injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity , such as phenothiazines , antiparkinson drugs , or tricyclic antidepressants , may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects .
Concomitant administration of Glycopyrrolate Injection and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride - induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time .
• Other anticholinergics or drugs with anticholinergic activity : May intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects .
( 7 ) • Potassium Chloride in a Wax Matrix : May increase severity of potassium chloride - induced gastrointestinal lesions .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Infants , patients with Down ' s Syndrome , and pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage may experience an increased response to anticholinergics , thus increasing the potential for side effects .
Large doses may cause hyperexcitability .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary Limited data are available with glycopyrrolate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of birth defects and miscarriage , however , most of the reported exposures occurred after the first trimester .
Most of the available data are based on studies with exposures that occurred at the time of Cesarean - section delivery , and these studies have not identified an adverse effect on maternal outcomes or infant Apgar scores ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies in pregnant rats and rabbits administered glycopyrrolate orally ( rats ) and intramuscularly ( rabbits ) during the period of organogenesis , no teratogenic effects were seen at 320 - times and 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 mg ( on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 − 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published , randomized , controlled trials over several decades , which compared the use of glycopyrrolate to another antimuscarinic agent in pregnant women during Cesarean section , have not identified adverse maternal or infant outcomes .
In normal doses ( 0 . 004 mg / kg ) , glycopyrrolate does not appear to affect fetal heart rate or fetal heart rate variability to a significant degree .
Concentrations of glycopyrrolate in umbilical venous and arterial blood and in the amniotic fluid are low after intramuscular administration to parturients .
Therefore , glycopyrrolate does not appear to penetrate through the placental barrier in significant amounts .
There are no studies on the safety of glycopyrrolate exposure during the period of organogenesis , and therefore , it is not possible to draw any conclusions on the risk of birth defects following exposure to glycopyrrolate during pregnancy .
In addition , there are no data on the risk of miscarriage following fetal exposure to glycopyrrolate .
Animal Data Reproduction studies with glycopyrrolate were performed in rats at a dietary dose of approximately 65 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 320 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 2 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) and rabbits at intramuscular doses of up to 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 5 times the maximum recommended daily human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
These studies produced no teratogenic effects to the fetus .
A preclinical study on reproductive performance of rats given glycopyrrolate resulted in a decreased rate of conception and survival at weaning .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary There are no data on the presence of glycopyrrolate in either human milk or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
As with other anticholinergics , glycopyrrolate may cause suppression of lactation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breast feeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Glycopyrrolate Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Glycopyrrolate Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established for the management of peptic ulcer .
Dysrhythmias associated with the use of glycopyrrolate intravenously as a premedicant or during anesthesia have been observed in pediatric patients .
Infants , patients with Down ' s syndrome , and pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage may experience an increased response to anticholinergics , thus increasing the potential for side effects .
A paradoxical reaction characterized by hyperexcitability may occur in pediatric patients taking large doses of anticholinergics including Glycopyrrolate Injection .
Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effects of anticholinergics .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical Studies of Glycopyrrolate Injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Renal elimination of glycopyrrolate may be severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects , a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase such as neostigmine methylsulfate ( which does not cross the blood - brain barrier ) may be given intravenously in increments of 0 . 25 mg in adults .
This dosage may be repeated every five to ten minutes until anticholinergic overactivity is reversed or up to a maximum of 2 . 5 mg .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
Indication for repetitive doses of neostigmine should be based on close monitoring of the decrease in heart rate and the return of bowel sounds .
If CNS symptoms ( e . g . , excitement , restlessness , convulsions , psychotic behavior ) occur , physostigmine ( which does cross the blood – brain barrier ) may be used .
Physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg should be slowly administered intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg in adults .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
To combat hypotension , administer IV fluids and / or pressor agents along with supportive care .
Fever should be treated symptomatically .
Following overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
In the event of a curare - like effect on respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
11 DESCRIPTION Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP is a synthetic anticholinergic agent .
It is intended for intramuscular or intravenous administration .
Each 1 mL contains : Glycopyrrolate , USP 0 . 2 mg , Water for Injection , USP q . s . , pH adjusted , when necessary , with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
Solution does not contain preservatives .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium salt with the following chemical name : 3 [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl pyrrolidinium bromide .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glycopyrrolate occurs as a white , odorless crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and ether .
It completely ionized at physiological pH values .
Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP , is a clear , colorless , sterile liquid ; pH 2 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
The partition coefficient of glycopyrrolate in a n - octanol / water system is 0 . 304 ( log10 P = - 1 . 52 ) at ambient room temperature ( 24 ° C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are highly non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
For this reason , the occurrence of CNS - related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
With intravenous injection , the onset of action is generally evident within one minute .
Following intramuscular administration , the onset of action is noted in 15 to 30 minutes , with peak effects occurring within approximately 30 to 45 minutes .
The vagal blocking effects persist for 2 to 3 hours and the antisialagogue effects persist up to 7 hours , periods longer than for atropine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The following pharmacokinetic information and conclusions were obtained from published studies that used nonspecific assay methods .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of glycopyrrolate was estimated to be 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 L / kg .
Elimination Metabolism The in vivo metabolism of glycopyrrolate in humans has not been studied .
Excretion The mean clearance and mean t1 / 2 values were reported to be 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 L / kg / hr and 0 . 83 ± 0 . 27 hr , respectively post IV administration .
After IV administration of a 0 . 2 mg radiolabeled glycopyrrolate , 85 % of dose recovered was recovered in urine 48 hours postdose and some of the radioactivity was also recovered in bile .
After IM administration of glycopyrrolate to adults , the mean t1 / 2 value is reported to be between 0 . 55 to 1 . 25 hrs .
Over 80 % of IM dose administered was recovered in urine and the bile as unchanged drug and half the IM dose is excreted within 3 hrs .
The following table summarizes the mean and standard deviation of pharmacokinetic parameters from a study .
* 0 to 8 hr Group t1 / 2 ( hr ) Vss ( L / kg ) CL ( L / kg / hr ) Tmax ( min ) Cmax ( mcg / L ) AUC ( mcg / L ● hr ) ( 6 mcg / kg IV ) 0 . 83 ± 0 . 27 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 - - 8 . 64 ± 1 . 49 * ( 8 mcg / kg IM ) - - - 27 . 48 ± 6 . 12 3 . 47 ± 1 . 48 6 . 64 ± 2 . 33 * Specific Populations Pediatric Patients Following IV administration ( 5 mcg / kg glycopyrrolate ) to infants and children , the mean t1 / 2 values were reported to be between 21 . 6 and 130 . 0 minutes and between 19 . 2 and 99 . 2 minutes , respectively .
Patients with Renal Impairment In one study glycopyrrolate was administered IV in uremic patients undergoing renal transplantation .
The mean elimination half - life was significantly longer ( 46 . 8 minutes ) than in healthy patients ( 18 . 6 minutes ) .
The mean area - under - the - concentration - time curve ( 10 . 6 hr - mcg / L ) , mean plasma clearance ( 0 . 43 L / hr / kg ) , and mean 3 - hour urine excretion ( 0 . 7 % ) for glycopyrrolate were also significantly different than those of controls ( 3 . 73 hr - mcg / L , 1 . 14 L / hr / kg , and 50 % , respectively ) .
These results suggest that the elimination of glycopyrrolate is severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Mutagenesis Studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential of glycopyrrolate have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility In reproduction studies in rats , dietary administration of glycopyrrolate resulted in diminished rates of conception in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP , 0 . 2 mg per mL without preservative is available as : Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each 720330 NDC 76045 - 023 - 30 Unit of 10 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) NDC 76045 - 023 - 00 3 mL single - dose pre - filled disposable syringe Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Sensitive to heat – Do not autoclave .
Discard unused portion .
Do not place syringe on a sterile field .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Drowsiness or Blurred Vision : Inform patients that Glycopyrrolate Injection may cause drowsiness or blurred vision .
Warn patients not to operate a motor vehicle or other machinery or perform hazardous work until these issues resolve .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Heat Prostration : Inform patients that in the presence of fever , high environmental temperature and / or during physical exercise , heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents , including Glycopyrrolate Injection ( due to decreased sweating ) , particularly in children and the elderly .
Advise patients to avoid exertion and high environmental temperature after receiving Glycopyrrolate Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Light Sensitivity : Advise patients that Glycopyrrolate Injection may cause sensitivity of the eyes to light and to protect their eyes from light after receiving Glycopyrrolate Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Drug Interactions : Inform patients that Glycopyrrolate Injection may interact with other drugs .
Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider the use of any other medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
For more information concerning this drug , please call Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
U . S . Patent 9 , 731 , 082 [ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451718 C [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 3 mL Syringe Label 3 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe .
For IM or IV Use .
Rx only Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 3 mL Blister Label Rx only NDC 76045 - 023 - 00 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 3 mL Carton Label Rx only NDC 76045 - 023 - 30 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 6 mg / 3 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous Use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
10 x 3 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
