ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Hydrated Silica 13 % Calcium Glycerophosphate 0 . 13 % Sodium Fluoride 0 . 11 % Tocopheryl Acetate 0 . 1 % PURPOSE Purpose Anti plaque Dental plaque removal Tooth decay prevention Gum care Uses ■ It keeps them white and makes them strong .
■ Keep your mouth clean .
■ Refreshes the mouth .
■ Prevents tooth decay and removes bad breath .
■ enhance the aesthetic effect .
■ Prevention of gingivitis , periodontitis ( pyorrhea ) , prevention of periodontal ■ disease , prevention of gum disease ■ Plaque removal ( anti - plaque ) WARNINGS ■ The fluoride content of this toothpaste is 500 ppm .
■ Be careful not to swallow , and rinse your mouth thoroughly after use .
■ If an abnormality occurs such as damage to the gums or mouth due to the use of this toothpaste , stop using it and consult a doctor or dentist ■ When used by children under the age of 6 , use a small amount of toothpaste about the size of a pea at a time , and use under the guidance of a guardian to avoid sucking or swallowing .
■ If a child under the age of 6 swallows a large amount , consult a doctor or dentist immediately .
■ Keep out of reach of children under the age of 6 KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
Directions ■ Apply an appropriate amount to the toothbrush and brush the teeth by brushing Other Information ■ Airtight container , Store in normal temperature ( 1 ~ 30 ℃ ) Questions ■ 02 - 363 - 1502 ■ www . doctorchois . com INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sorbitol , Water , Glycerin , Xylitol , Hydroxyapatite , Cellulose Gum , Rubus Idaeus ( Raspberry ) Fruit Extract , Lime Flavor , Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate , Stevioside , Foeniculum Vulgare Oil , Sodium Cocoyl Glutamate , Calcium Glycerophosphate , Sodium Fluoride , Tocopheryl Acetate , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Fruit Extract , Pyridoxine HCl , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Chloride , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Salvia Officinalis ( Sage ) Leaf Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , " Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract " , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Extract , Pistacia Lentiscus ( Mastic ) Gum Oil , Mentha Viridis ( Spearmint ) Leaf Oil , Mentha Pulegium Oil , Ubiquinone PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
