Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % Solution Purposes surgical hand scrub healthcare personnel handwash patient operative skin preparation skin wound and general skin cleansing Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • patient preoperative skin preparation : preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery • skin wound and general cleansing Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients • in contact with meninges • in the genital area • as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums • if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wound which involve more than the superficial layers of skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when the underlying condition makes it necessary to reduce the bacterial population of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious conditions .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Direction • use with care in premature infants and infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms under running water for 30 seconds .
Clean fingernails using a nailstick or similar cleaner .
• scrub for 1 . 5 minutes with about 8 ml of product with or without a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and skin between the fingers • rinse throughly under running water for 30 seconds • wash for an additional 1 . 5 minutes with 8 ml of product and rinse under running water for 30 seconds • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 ml of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 minutes • dry with sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with sterile towel Patient preoperative skin preparation : • apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes • dry with sterile towel • repeat procecedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly other information • store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3271 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM Package Label NDC 0116 - 1021 - 04 DYNA - HEX 2 ® ( Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution ) Antispeptic Contains : 2 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate Distributed By : Xttrium Laboratories , Inc . , Mount Prospect , IL 60056 For External Use Only .
Net Contents : 4 fl OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
