Rx only DESCRIPTION : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Tobramycin is a water soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The molecular formula is C18H37N5O9 , the molecular weight is 467 . 52 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : O - { 3 - amino - 3 - deoxy - α - D - gluco - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) } - O - { 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribohexo - pyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) } - 2 - deoxystreptamine .
Each mL contains : Active : Tobramycin 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Inactives : Boric Acid , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Sulfate , Tyloxapol , Sodium Hydroxide and / or Sulfuric Acid to adjust pH ( 7 . 0 to 8 . 0 ) , and Water for Injection .
Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : In Vitro Data : In Vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A betahemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in pediatric patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
If a sensitivity reaction to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS : General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies in three types of animals at doses up to thirty - three times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from tobramycin , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of two months has not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin .
Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy ; however , if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics , care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration .
OVERDOSAGE : Clinically apparent signs and symptoms of an overdose of tobramycin ophthalmic solution ( punctate keratitis , erythema , increased lacrimation , edema and lid itching ) may be similar to adverse reaction effects seen in some patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : In mild to moderate disease , instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , instill two drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
HOW SUPPLIED : Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 3 % is supplied as a sterile solution in plastic dropper bottle of 5 mL STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from excessive heat .
Repackaged by : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92880 Akorn Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 GTM00N Rev . 10 / 16 Package Label Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 33261 - 0519 Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % Sterile Rx only 5 mL Repackaged by Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92880 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
