Y36 - 003 - 064 LD - 710 - 2 Prescribing Information EXCEL ® CONTAINER Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP 500 mEq / 250 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY MUST BE DILUTED PRIOR TO INJECTION Rx only DESCRIPTION A pharmacy bulk package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of Potassium Chloride USP in Water for Injection USP to be administered by intravenous infusion only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
No bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agent has been added .
Each 100 mL of Potassium Chloride contains : Potassium Chloride USP 14 . 9 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 4 ( 4 . 0 – 8 . 0 ) ; Calculated Osmolarity : 4000 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / mL ) : Potassium 2 ; Chloride 2 The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Potassium Chloride USP KCl 74 . 55 Potassium chloride injection ( approximately diluted ) is a parenteral fluid and electrolyte replenisher .
Excel container not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a multi - layered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during admixing .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
The closure system has two ports ; the one for the suitable transfer device or compounding set has a tamper evident plastic protector and the other is a non - accessible blocked port .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) and is concerned with the maintenance of body fluid composition and electrolyte balance .
Potassium participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine , the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting , or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
A deficiency of either potassium or chloride will lead to a deficit of the other .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP is indicated in the treatment of potassium deficiency states when oral replacement is not feasible .
This is a concentrated solution which is intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP is contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered , in patients with hyperkalemia , renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present , or where additives of potassium and chloride could be clinically detrimental .
WARNINGS Strongly Hypertonic Solution .
Must be properly diluted and thoroughly mixed before injection .
Potentially Fatal Cardiac Adverse Reactions with Undiluted Intravenous Administration Direct patient injection of potassium chloride at this concentration may be instantaneously fatal .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate must be diluted before administration .
Fatal cardiac arrhythmia and cardiac arrest have occurred when potassium chloride was administered in an undiluted form .
To avoid potassium intoxication , do not infuse these solutions rapidly .
In patients with renal insufficiency , administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication and life - threatening hyperkalemia .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
The drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements , or the use of electrolyte - free dextrose solutions to which individualized electrolyte supplements may be added .
Potassium therapy should be guided primarily by serial electrocardiograms , especially in patients receiving digitalis .
Serum potassium levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
Solutions containing potassium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in the presence of renal disease , and in such instances , cardiac monitoring is recommended .
Solutions containing potassium in a greater concentration than 40 mEq / liter may result in significant irritation to peripheral or central veins .
For peripheral administration of solutions containing potassium , slowly infuse the solution through a small bore needle , placed well within the lumen of a large vein .
Carefully avoid infiltration .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus , or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
If the administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Discard container within 4 hours after initial puncture .
Pregnancy : ( I ) Teratogenic effects .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium chloride injection .
It is also not known whether potassium chloride injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium chloride injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the potassium - containing solutions or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection or extravasation , hypervolemia , and hyperkalemia .
To rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and , rarely , vein irritation .
Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance .
Reactions reported with the use of potassium - containing solutions include nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , areflexia , muscular or respiratory paralysis , mental confusion , weakness , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest .
Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function , and intestinal ileus and dilatation .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
Potassium - containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues .
Therefore , extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration .
Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs .
Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of fluid overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
In the event of overdosage with potassium - containing solutions , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
Treatment of hyperkalemia includes the following : • Dextrose Injection USP , 10 % or 25 % , containing 10 units of crystalline insulin per 20 grams of dextrose administered intravenously , 300 to 500 mL per hour .
• Absorption and exchange of potassium using sodium or ammonium cycle cation exchange resin , orally and as retention enema .
• Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
The use of potassium - containing foods or medications must be eliminated .
However , in cases of digitalization , too rapid a lowering of plasma potassium concentration can cause digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for direct patient injection .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP , Pharmacy Bulk Package is for preparation of intravenous admixtures only and must be diluted before administration .
Care must be taken to ensure there is complete mixing of the potassium chloride with the large volume fluid , particularly if soft or bag type containers are used .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Dosage and rate of administration are to be directed by the physician and are dependent upon the specific conditions of each patient ( e . g . , age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations ) .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
If the serum potassium level is greater than 2 . 5 mEq / liter , potassium can be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq / hour and in a concentration of up to 40 mEq / liter .
The 24 hour total dose should not exceed 200 mEq .
If urgent treatment is indicated ( serum potassium level less than 2 . 0 mEq / liter and electrocardiographic changes and / or muscle paralysis ) , potassium chloride may be infused very cautiously at a rate of up to 40 mEq / hour .
In such cases , continuous cardiac monitoring is essential .
As much as 400 mEq may be administered in a 24 hour period .
In critical conditions , potassium chloride may be administered in saline ( unless contraindicated ) rather than in dextrose containing fluids , as dextrose may lower serum potassium levels .
Directions for Use of Pharmacy Bulk Packages in EXCEL ® Container with Blocked Medication Port Warning : Not for direct infusion .
For preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only .
Use of this product is restricted to a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Additives should not be made to Pharmacy Bulk Packages .
Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connection .
To Open Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
NOTE : Before use , perform the following checks : Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Preparation for Admixing 1 .
Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
2 .
Attach suitable transfer device or compounding set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying device .
Do Not Add Medication Transfer individual dose ( s ) to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended .
Multiple entries increase the potential of microbial and particulate contamination .
The container closure may be penetrated only one time , utilizing a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents .
For Pharmacy Bulk Packages : • The Pharmacy Bulk Package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar air flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• For compounding only .
Do not use for direct infusion .
• Do not use / penetrate blocked port .
• Attach suitable transfer device or compounding set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying device .
• Hang container on suitable fixture .
• Once container closure has been penetrated , withdrawal of contents should be completed within 4 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
Important Admixing Instructions • The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
• Additives may be incompatible with the fluid withdrawn from this container .
Consult with pharmacist .
• When compounding admixtures , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and discard unused portion .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration ( See Warnings and Precautions , General ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP 500 mEq / 250 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 250 mL Excel ® container with clear overwrap , Pharmacy Bulk Packages , packaged 24 per case .
NDC REF Size Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP 0264 - 1944 - 20 P9402 250 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Excursions permitted 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : November 2022 EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Prepared in USA .
API from Germany .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mL Excel ® Container Label Fatal If Given By Direct Infusion Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP 500 mEq / 250 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) WARNING : Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for Direct Infusion Concentrated solution : MUST BE DILUTED For preparation of intravenous admixtures only .
Y94 - 003 - 477 LD - 709 - 2 NDC 0264 - 1944 - 20 250 mL Each 100 mL contains : Potassium Chloride USP 14 . 9 g ; Water for Injection USP qs ; 4000 mOsmol / liter ; Electrolytes ( mEq / mL ) : Potassium 2 ; Chloride 2 Pharmacy Bulk Package .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
No antimicrobial or bacteriostatic agent has been added .
Contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C . [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Dosage and Directions for Use : See Prescribing Information .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
Withdraw contents within 4 hours of initial puncture .
Use aseptic technique .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Affix accompanying label for date and time of expiry Expiration date : __ / __ / ____ Expiration time : ___________ AM / PM Discard ___ hours after initial entry Y37 - 002 - 586 LD - 736 - 2 REF P9402 Rx only B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y94 - 003 - 476 LD - 708 - 2 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mL AUXILLARY LABEL Fatal if Given By Direct Infusion Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate USP 500 mEq / 250 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) WARNING : PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION Y37 - 002 - 584 LD - 747 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
