DESCRIPTION Gris - PEG ® Tablets contain ultramicrosize crystals of griseofulvin , an antibiotic derived from a species of Penicillium .
Each Gris - PEG ® tablet contains : Active Ingredient : griseofulvin ultramicrosize .... 125 mg Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose , magnesium stearate , methylcellulose , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 and 8000 , polyvinylpyrrolidone , and titanium dioxide .
or Active Ingredient : griseofulvin ultramicrosize .... 250 mg Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , methylcellulose , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 and 8000 , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
ACTION Microbiology Griseofulvin is fungistatic with in vitro activity against various species of Microsporum , Epidermophyton and Trichophyton .
It has no effect on bacteria or other genera of fungi .
Pharmacokinetics Following oral administration , griseofulvin is deposited in the keratin precursor cells and has a greater affinity for diseased tissue .
The drug is tightly bound to the new keratin which becomes highly resistant to fungal invasions .
The efficiency of gastrointestinal absorption of ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin is approximately one and one - half times that of the conventional microsize griseofulvin .
This factor permits the oral intake of two - thirds as much ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin as the microsize form .
However , there is currently no evidence that this lower dose confers any significant clinical differences with regard to safety and / or efficacy .
In a bioequivalence study conducted in healthy volunteers ( N = 24 ) in the fasted state , 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets were compared with 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets that were physically altered ( crushed ) and administered with applesauce .
The 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets were found to be bioequivalent to the physically altered ( crushed ) 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets ( See Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Mean ( ± SD ) of the Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Griseofulvin administered in applesauce as a Single Dose of Gris - PEG ® 250 - mg Tablets Uncrushed and Crushed to fasted Healthy Volunteers ( N = 24 ) 250 mg Ultramicrocrystalline Griseofulvin Tablets Unaltered 250 mg Ultramicrocrystalline Griseofulvin Tablets Physically Altered ( Crushed and in Applesauce ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 600 . 61 ( ± 167 . 6 ) 672 . 61 ( ± 146 . 2 ) Tmax ( hr ) 4 . 04 ( ± 2 . 2 ) 3 . 08 ( ± 1 . 02 ) AUC ( ng . hr / mL ) 8618 . 89 ( ± 1907 . 2 ) 9023 . 71 ( ± 1911 . 5 ) INDICATIONS Gris - PEG ® ( griseofulvin ultramicrosize ) is indicated for the treatment of the following ringworm infections ; tinea corporis ( ringworm of the body ) , tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) , tinea cruris ( ringworm of the groin and thigh ) , tinea barbae ( barber ' s itch ) , tinea capitis ( ringworm of the scalp ) , and tinea unguium ( onychomycosis , ringworm of the nails ) , when caused by one or more of the following genera of fungi : Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton tonsurans , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton interdigitalis , Trichophyton verrucosum , Trichophyton megnini , Trichophyton gallinae , Trichophyton crateriform , Trichophyton sulphureum , Trichophyton schoenleini , Microsporum audouini , Microsporum canis , Microsporum gypseum and Epidermophyton floccosum .
NOTE : Prior to therapy , the type of fungi responsible for the infection should be identified .
The use of the drug is not justified in minor or trivial infections which will respond to topical agents alone .
Griseofulvin is not effective in the following : bacterial infections , candidiasis ( moniliasis ) , histoplasmosis , actinomycosis , sporotrichosis , chromoblastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , North American blastomycosis , cryptococcosis ( torulosis ) , tinea versicolor and nocardiosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Two cases of conjoined twins have been reported since 1977 in patients taking griseofulvin during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Griseofulvin should not be prescribed to pregnant patients .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
This drug is contraindicated in patients with porphyria or hepatocellular failure and in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to griseofulvin .
WARNINGS Prophylactic Usage Safety and efficacy of griseofulvin for prophylaxis of fungal infections have not been established .
Animal Toxicology Chronic feeding of griseofulvin , at levels ranging from 0 . 5 % - 2 . 5 % of the diet resulted in the development of liver tumors in several strains of mice , particularly in males .
Smaller particle sizes result in an enhanced effect .
Lower oral dosage levels have not been tested .
Subcutaneous administration of relatively small doses of griseofulvin once a week during the first three weeks of life has also been reported to induce hepatomata in mice .
Thyroid tumors , mostly adenomas but some carcinomas , have been reported in male rats receiving griseofulvin at levels of 2 . 0 % , 1 . 0 % and 0 . 2 % of the diet , and in female rats receiving the two higher dose levels .
Although studies in other animal species have not yielded evidence of tumorigenicity , these studies were not of adequate design to form a basis for conclusion in this regard .
In subacute toxicity studies , orally administered griseofulvin produced hepatocellular necrosis in mice , but this has not been seen in other species .
Disturbances in porphyrin metabolism have been reported in griseofulvin - treated laboratory animals .
Griseofulvin has been reported to have a colchicine - like effect on mitosis and cocarcinogenicity with methylcholanthrene in cutaneous tumor induction in laboratory animals .
Usage in Pregnancy See CONTRAINDICATIONS section .
Animal Reproduction Studies It has been reported in the literature that griseofulvin was found to be embryotoxic and teratogenic on oral administration to pregnant rats .
Pups with abnormalities have been reported in the litters of a few bitches treated with griseofulvin .
Suppression of spermatogenesis has been reported to occur in rats , but investigation in man failed to confirm this .
PRECAUTIONS Patients on prolonged therapy with any potent medication should be under close observation .
Periodic monitoring of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hematopoietic , should be done .
Since griseofulvin is derived from species of Penicillium , the possibility of cross - sensitivity with penicillin exists ; however , known penicillin - sensitive patients have been treated without difficulty .
Since a photosensitivity reaction is occasionally associated with griseofulvin therapy , patients should be warned to avoid exposure to intense natural or artificial sunlight .
Lupus erythematosus or lupus - like syndromes have been reported in patients receiving griseofulvin .
Griseofulvin decreases the activity of warfarin - type anticoagulants so that patients receiving these drugs concomitantly may require dosage adjustment of the anticoagulant during and after griseofulvin therapy .
Barbiturates usually depress griseofulvin activity and concomitant administration may require a dosage adjustment of the antifungal agent .
There have been reports in the literature of possible interactions between griseofulvin and oral contraceptives .
The effect of alcohol may be potentiated by griseofulvin , producing such effects as tachycardia and flush .
ADVERSE REACTIONS When adverse reactions occur , they are most commonly of the hypersensitivity type such as skin rashes , urticaria , erythema multiform - like drug reactions , and rarely , angioneurotic edema , and may necessitate withdrawal of therapy and appropriate countermeasures .
Paresthesia of the hands and feet have been reported rarely after extended therapy .
Other side effects reported occasionally are oral thrush , nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , headache , fatigue , dizziness , insomnia , mental confusion , and impairment of performance of routine activities .
Proteinuria and leukopenia have been reported rarely .
Administration of the drug should be discontinued if granulocytopenia occurs .
When rare , serious reactions occur with griseofulvin , they are usually associated with high dosages , long periods of therapy , or both .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Accurate diagnosis of infecting organism is essential .
Identification should be made either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Medication must be continued until the infecting organism is completely eradicated as indicated by appropriate clinical or laboratory examination .
Representative treatment periods are tinea capitis , 4 to 6 weeks ; tinea corporis , 2 to 4 weeks ; tinea pedis , 4 to 8 weeks ; tinea unguium - depending on rate of growth - fingernails , at least 4 months ; toenails , at least 6 months .
General measures in regard to hygiene should be observed to control sources of infection or reinfection .
Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required , particularly in treatment of tinea pedis .
In some forms of athlete ' s foot , yeasts and bacteria may be involved as well as fungi .
Griseofulvin will not eradicate the bacterial or monilial infection .
Gris - PEG ® tablets may be swallowed whole or crushed and sprinkled onto 1 tablespoonful of applesauce and swallowed immediately without chewing .
Adults Daily administration of 375 mg ( as a single dose or in divided doses ) will give a satisfactory response in most patients with tinea corporis , tinea cruris , and tinea capitis .
For those fungal infections more difficult to eradicate , such as tinea pedis and tinea unguium , a divided dose of 750 mg is recommended .
Pediatric Use Approximately 3 . 3 mg per pound of body weight per day of ultramicrosize griseofulvin is an effective dose for most pediatric patients .
On this basis , the following dosage schedule is suggested : Children weighing 35 - 60 pounds - 125 mg to 187 . 5 mg daily .
Pediatric patients weighing over 60 pounds - 187 . 5 mg to 375 mg daily .
Children and infants 2 years of age and younger - dosage has not been established .
Clinical experience with griseofulvin in children with tinea capitis indicates that a single daily dose is effective .
Clinical relapse will occur if the medication is not continued until the infecting organism is eradicated .
HOW SUPPLIED Gris - PEG ® ( griseofulvin ultramicrosize ) Tablets , 125 mg , white scored , elliptical - shaped , embossed " Gris - PEG " on one side and " 125 " on the other .
Gris - PEG ® ( griseofulvin ultramicrosize ) Tablets , 250 mg , white scored , capsule - shaped , embossed " Gris - PEG " on one side and " 250 " on the other .
Both strengths are film - coated .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0261 - 1 250 mg 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack white 0884 - 0773 Rx ONLY STORAGE Store Gris - PEG ® tablets at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) in tight , light - resistant containers .
Manufactured for : PEDINOL PHARMACAL INC .
Farmingdale , NY 11735 U . S . A . By : NOVARTIS CONSUMER HEALTH INC .
Lincoln , NE 68501 This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States Label Image for 250 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
