Active Ingredients ( in each TEASPOON = 7 gms ) Psyllium Hydrophilic Mucilloid 3 . 4 gms ( approximately ) Purpose Fiber laxative / Dietary Fiber Supplement Uses Fiber laxative • effective in treating occasional constipation and restoring and maintaining regularity .
Generally produces bowel movement in 12 - 72 hours • encouragement for normal elimination naturally , without chemical stimulants Dietary Fiber Supplement • Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that includes 7 gms of soluble fiber per day from psyllium husk , as in this product , may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol .
One Adult dose of this product has 2 . 4 gms of this soluble fiber .
Warnings Choking • Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention Allergy alert • Inhaled or ingested psyllium powder may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to psyllium Ask a doctor before use if Laxative • if you have a sudden change in bowel habits that persist over a period of 2 weeks • if you have abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting Dietary Fiber Therapy • you are considering use of this product as part of cholesterol - lowering program .
When using this product • do not use more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experince rectal bleeding • you faile to have bowel movement • constipation persists beyond 7 days , as it may be a sign of a more serious consition .
Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Mix this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
Taking this product with enough liquid may cause choking .
Do not take if you have difficulty in swallowing .
See choking warnings LAXATIVE USE DIETARY SUPPLEMENT FIBER USE Adults 12 years & older 1 rounded teaspoon ( 7 gms ) in 8 oz .
of liquid at the first sign of irregularity .
Can be taken up to 3 times daily 1 rounded teaspoon ( 7 gms ) in 8 oz .
of liquid 3 times daily .
Children 6 years to under 12 years 1 / 2 the adult dose in 8 oz .
of liquid , up to 3 times daily consult a doctor Children under 6 years consult a doctor consult a doctor • 1 .
Put rounded teaspoon ( 7 gms ) in 8 oz .
of liquid at the first sign of irregularity .
• 2 .
Fill an 8 oz .
container with cold water , juice or other liquid .
• 3 .
Sprinkle one rounded teaspoondul ( 7 gms ) of powder into liquid .
• 4 .
Stir briskly and drink immediately .
If mixture thickens , add more liquid and stir .
An additional glass of liquid is recommended .
Usage Tips : Laxatives , including bulk fibers , may affect how well other medicines work .
If you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth , take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine .
As your boday adjusts to increase fiber intake , you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating .
Your doctor can recommend the right dosage of this product to best meet your needs .
In general , start by taking one dose a day .
Gradually increase to three doses per day , if needed or recommeded by your doctor .
If minor gas or bloating occurs when you increrase doses , try slightly reducing the amount your are taking .
This product can be taken any time of day .
To establish a routine , we suggest taking it at approximately the same time each day .
Also useful for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders associated with consitipation when recommended by a doctor .
Other information • DO NOT USE IF INNER FOIL SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
• store at room temperature • keep tightly closed to protect from humidity • frequent or prolonged use of this prepartion may result in dependence on laxative .
Inactive Ingredients Sucrose Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
