STERILE Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP is a sterile antimicrobial ointment for ophthalmic use .
Each gram contains : Neomycin Sulfate ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg neomycin base ) , Polymyxin B sulfate equal to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , bacitracin zinc equal to 400 bacitracin units , and white petrolatum , q . s . Neomycin sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C , which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent of not less than 600 mcg of neomycin standard per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formula are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 , which are produced by the growth of Bacillus palymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bacitracin zinc is the zinc salt of bacitracin , a mixture of related cyclic polypeptides ( mainly bacitracin A ) produced by the growth of an organism of the lichenifoimis group of Bacillus subtilis var Tracy .
It has a potency of not less than 40 bacitracin units per mg .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : A wide range of antibacterial action is provided by the overlapping spectra of neomycin , polymyxin B sulfate , and bacitracin .
Neomycin is bactericidal for many gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
It is an aminoglycoside antibiotic , which inhibits protein synthesis by binding with ribosomal RNA and causing misreading of the bacterial genetic code .
Polymyxin B is bactericidal for a variety of gram - negative organisms .
It increases the permeability of the bacterial cell membrane by interacting with the phospholipid components of the membrane .
Bacitracin is bactericidal for a variety of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
It interferes with bacterial cell wall synthesis by inhibition of the regeneration of phospholipid receptors involved in phospholipid synthesis .
Microbiology : Neomycin sulfate , polymyxin B sulfate , and bacitracin zinc together are considered active against the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci including Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichiacoli , Haemophilusinfluenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP is indicated for the topical treatment of superficial infections of the external eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Such infections encompass conjunctivitis , keratitis and keratoconjunctivitis , blepharitis and blepharoconjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ointment USP should never be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Topical antibiotics , particularly neomycin sulfate , may cause cutaneous sensitization .
A precise incidence of hypersensitivity reactions ( primarily skin rash ) due to topical antibiotics is not known .
The manifestations of sensitization to topical antibiotics are usually itching , reddening , and edema of the conjunctiva and eyelid .
A sensitization reaction may manifest simply as a failure to heal .
During long - term use of topical antibiotic products , periodic examination for such signs is advisable , and the patient should be told to discontinue the product if they are observed .
Symptoms usually subside quickly on withdrawing the medication .
Application of products containing these ingredients should be avoided for the patient thereafter ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment USP may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate measures should be initiated .
Bacterial resistance to Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment USP may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation , or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of topical ophthalmic products in multiple - dose containers , which have been inadvertently contaminated by patients , most of whom had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
Allergic cross - reactions may occur which could prevent the use of any or all of the following antibiotics for the treatment of future infections : kanamycin , paromomycin , streptomycin , and possibly gentamicin .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , eyelid , fingers , or any other surface .
The use of this product by more than one person may spread infection .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular products , if handled improperly , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated products ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
If the condition persists or gets worse , or if a rash or allergic reaction develops , the patient should be advised to stop use and consult a physician .
Do not use this product if you are allergic to any of the listed ingredients .
Keep tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or bacitracin .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentration ( 80 mcg / mL ) tested ; however , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
No adverse effects on male or female fertility , liter size or survival were observed in rabbits given bacitracin zinc 100 gm / ton of diet .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with neomycin sulfate , polymyxin B sulfate , or bacitracin .
It is also not known whether Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP should be given to pregnant woman only if dearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti - infective components of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfate and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment USP .
The exact incidence is not known .
Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching , swelling , and conjunctival erythema ( see WARNINGS ) .
More serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported rarely .
Local irritation on instillation has also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply the ointment every 3 or 4 hours for 7 to 10 days , depending on the severity of the infection .
HOW SUPPLIED : Tube of 1 / 8 oz .
( 3 . 5 g ) with ophthalmic tip .
NDC13985 - 607 - 03 Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
apexa ™ Manufactured by : Akorn Inc .
Lake Forest IL 60045 Distributed by : MWI Boise , ID 83705 MWNP00N Rev . 10 / 15 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 13985 - 607 - 03 Neomycin and STERILE Polymyxin B Sulfates , Rx Only and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP Apexa logo AP 704009 Net Weight : 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 13985 - 607 - 03 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates , and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment , USP STERILE Rx Only Apexa logo AP 704009 Net Weight : 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
