Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % is an adrenocortical steroid product prepared as a sterile ophthalmic suspension .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : chemical Established name : Prednisolone Acetate Chemical name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - .
Each mL contains : Active : prednisolone acetate 1 . 0 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Vehicle : hypromellose .
Inactives : dibasic sodium phosphate , polysorbate 80 , edetate disodium , glycerin , citric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Corticosteroids are capable of producing a rise in intraocular pressure .
Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitides , when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation ; corneal injury from chemical , radiation , or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may also suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Corticosteroids are not effective in mustard gas keratitis and Sjogren ' s keratoconjunctivitis .
General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored ( SEE WARNINGS ) .
Information for Patients If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the potential of these effects .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C . Prednisolone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice when given in doses 1 - 10 times the human dose .
Dexamethasone , hydrocortisone and prednisolone were ocularly applied to both eyes of pregnant mice five times per day on days 10 through 13 of gestation .
A significant increase in the incidence of cleft palate was observed in the fetuses of the treated mice .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from prednisolone acetate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
Adverse reactions include , in decreasing order of frequency , elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , and delayed wound healing .
Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon , there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical steroids .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis and perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids .
The development of secondary ocular infection ( bacterial , fungal and viral ) has occurred .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroid .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used ( SEE WARNINGS ) .
Adverse reactions include , in decreasing order of frequency , elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , and delayed wound healing .
Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon , there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical steroids .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis and perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids .
The development of secondary ocular infection ( bacterial , fungal and viral ) has occurred .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroid .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used ( SEE WARNINGS ) .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Two drops topically in the eye ( s ) four times daily .
In cases of bacterial infections , concomitant use of anti - infective agents is mandatory .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( SEE PRECAUTIONS ) .
The dosing of Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % may be reduced , but care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
In chronic conditions , withdrawal of treatment should be carried out by gradually decreasing the frequency of applications .
Prednisolone Acetate Ophthalmic Suspension USP , 1 % is supplied in a white round low density polyethylene DROP - TAINER * dispenser with a natural low density polyethylene dispensing plug and pink polypropylene cap .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
