Rx Only NDC 60258 - 005 - 01 DESCRIPTION CYTRA - K CRYSTALS ( potassium citrate and citric acid for oral solution ) is a pleasant - tasting oral systemic alkalizer containing potassium citrate and citric acid in a sugar - free base .
Each packet of CYTRA - K CRYSTALS , when reconstituted , provides the following amounts of active ingredients : Potassium Citrate Monohydrate 3300 mg Citric Acid Monohydrate 1002 mg and provides 30 mEq potassium , equivalent to 30 mEq bicarbonate ( HCO3 ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sodium saccharin , fruit punch flavor , and FD & C Red Dye # 3 .
Potassium Citrate Monohydrate has the chemical name : 1 , 2 , 3 - Propanetricarboxylic acid , 2 - hydroxy - , tripotassium salt , monohydrate .
Its chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Citric Acid Monohydrate has the chemical name : 1 , 2 , 3 - Propanetricarboxylic acid , 2 - hydroxy - , monohydrate .
Its chemical structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Potassium citrate is absorbed and metabolized to potassium bicarbonate , thus acting as a systemic alkalizer .
The effects are essentially those of chlorides before absorption and those of bicarbonates subsequently .
Oxidation is virtually complete so that less than 5 % of the potassium citrate is excreted in the urine unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CYTRA - K CRYSTALS is an effective alkalinizing agent useful in those conditions where long - term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable , such as in patients with uric acid and cystine calculi of the urinary tract , especially when the administration of sodium salts is undesirable or contraindicated .
In addition , it is a valuable adjuvant when administered with uricosuric agents in gout therapy , since urates tend to crystallize out of an acid urine .
It is also effective in correcting the acidosis of certain renal tubular disorders where the administration of potassium citrate may be preferable .
CYTRA - K CRYSTALS is highly concentrated , and when administered after meals and before bedtime , allows one to maintain an alkaline urinary pH around the clock , usually without the necessity of a 2 A . M . dose .
CYTRA - K CRYSTALS alkalinizes the urine without producing a systemic alkalosis in recommended dosage .
It is highly palatable , pleasant tasting , and tolerable , even when administered for long periods .
Potassium citrate does not neutralize the gastric juice or disturb digestion .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Severe renal impairment with oliguria or azotemia , untreated Addison ' s disease , adynamia episodica hereditaria , acute dehydration , heat cramps , anuria , severe myocardial damage , and hyperkalemia from any cause .
Known hypersensitivity to any ingredients in this product .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS There have been several reports , published and unpublished , concerning nonspecific small - bowel lesions consisting of stenosis , with or without ulceration , associated with the administration of enteric - coated thiazides with potassium salts .
These lesions may occur with enteric - coated potassium tablets alone or when they are used with nonenteric - coated thiazides , or certain other oral diuretics .
These small - bowel lesions have caused obstruction , hemorrhage , and perforation .
Surgery was frequently required and deaths have occurred .
Based on a large survey of physicians and hospitals , both United States and foreign , the incidence of these lesions is low , and a causal relationship in man has not been definitely established .
Available information tends to implicate enteric - coated potassium salts , although lesions of this type also occur spontaneously .
Therefore , coated potassium - containing formulations should be administered only when indicated , and should be discontinued immediately if abdominal pain , distention , nausea , vomiting , or gastrointestinal bleeding occur .
Large doses may cause hyperkalemia and alkalosis , especially in the presence of renal disease .
Concurrent administration of potassium - containing medication , potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , or cardiac glycosides may lead to toxicity .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Discontinue use if adverse reactions occur .
Should be used with caution by patients with low urinary output unless under the supervision of a physician .
As with all liquids containing a high concentration of potassium , patients should be directed to dilute adequately with water to minimize the possibility of gastrointestinal injury associated with the oral ingestion of concentrated potassium salt preparations ; and preferably , to take each dose after meals to avoid saline laxative effect .
ADVERSE REACTIONS CYTRA - K CRYSTALS is generally well tolerated without any unpleasant side effects when given in recommended doses to patients with normal renal function and urinary output .
However , as with any alkalinizing agent , caution must be used in certain patients with abnormal renal mechanisms to avoid development of hyperkalemia or alkalosis .
Potassium intoxication causes listlessness , weakness , mental confusion , tingling of extremities , and other symptoms associated with a high concentration of potassium in the serum .
Periodic determinations of serum electrolytes should be carried out in those patients with renal disease in order to avoid these complications .
Hyperkalemia may exhibit the following electrocardiographic abnormalities : Disappearance of the P wave , widening and slurring of QRS complex , changes of the S - T segment , tall peaked T waves , etc .
OVERDOSAGE The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , hyperkalemia can result ( see Contraindications and Warnings ) .
Hyperkalemia , when detected , must be treated immediately because lethal levels can be reached in a few hours .
Treatment Should hyperkalemia occur , treatment measures include the following : ( 1 ) Elimination of foods or medications containing potassium .
( 2 ) The intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of dextrose solution ( 10 to 25 % ) , containing 10 units of insulin / 20 gm dextrose .
( 3 ) The use of exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the plasma potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CYTRA - K CRYSTALS should be taken mixed in cool water or juice according to directions , followed by additional water or juice , if desired .
Proper dilution may help prevent gastroin - testinal injury associated with the oral ingestion of concentrated potassium salt preparations .
Usual Adult Dose CYTRA - K CRYSTALS - Contents of 1 packet reconstituted with at least 6 ounces of cool water or juice , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by physician .
Usual Pediatric Dose CYTRA - K CRYSTALS is not recommended for pediatric use .
Usual Dosage Range Contents of 1 packet CYTRA - K CRYSTALS , reconstituted as directed and taken four times a day , will usually maintain a urinary pH of 6 . 5 - 7 . 4 .
To check urinary pH , HYDRION Paper ( pH 6 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) or NITRAZINE Paper ( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) are available and easy to use .
HOW SUPPLIED CYTRA - K CRYSTALS - 100 Packets / box ( NDC 60258 - 005 - 01 ) .
STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from excessive heat or freezing .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSAGE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Cypress Pharmaceutical , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 793 - 2145 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Cypress Pharmaceutical , Inc . , Morristown , NJ 07960 I185 PN 0654 C Rev . 09 / 16 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 . 32 g Packet Box NDC 60258 - 005 - 01 CYTRA - K CRYSTALS ( POTASSIUM CITRATE AND CITRIC ACID FOR ORAL SOLUTION ) FRUIT - FLAVORED • SUGAR - FREE CYPRESS PHARMACEUTICAL , INC .
100 Packets - Net weight per packet : 4 . 32 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
