Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 . 0 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use For the management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time . If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • after cleansing , use one ( 1 ) pad to sweep over dry face with focus on acne - prone areas of the skin • Can be used up to two times daily or as tolerated by skin • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• Sensitivity Test for a New User : apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow directions above .
Other information store in a coo , dry place Inactive ingredients Water , Sodium Hydroxide , Glycolic Acid , Lactic Acid , Phytic Acid , Polysorbate 20 , Propanediol , Glycerin , Carica Papaya ( Papaya ) Fruit Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Heterotheca Inuloides Flower Extract , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Bark / Leaf / Twig Extract , Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , Maltodextrin , Kojic Acid , Niacinamide , Arbutin , Glutathione , Azelaic Acid , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Decyl Glucoside , Polyglyceryl - 10 Caprylate / Caprate , Coco - Glucoside , Glyceryl Oleate , Retinyl Palmitate , Sodium Chloride , Gluconic Acid , Citric Acid , Sodium Benzoate , Potassium Sorbate , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin .
Label SLMD Sandra Lee MD Resurfacing Acne Swipes 5 % Glycolic Acid 2 % Salicylic Acid 45 pre - soaked pads Created by Dr . Pimple Popper Swipe to reveal clear , glowing skin Dermatologist formulated , skina pproved Created by pop culture ' s favorite dermatologist , SLMD Skincare was formulated by Sandra Lee , MD to bridge the gap between the cluttered skincare aisle and a doctor ’ s visit .
You can trust each bottle will contain only the most effective ingredients , in formulas that your skin will love .
Think of it as a trip to Dr . Pimple Popper ’ s office , no appointment necessary .
Resurfacing Acne Swipes These acne - fighting , texture perfecting pads begin with a cocktail of three major skincare acids : Salicylic , Glycolic , and Lactic .
Together , this trio works to exfoliate and clarify by sloughing away dull skin at the surface and diving deep to remove pore - clogging impurities .
Loaded into soft woven rounds , swipe these on to prevent acne and reveal a healthy , noticeable glow .
Resurfacing Acne How to use : After cleansing , swipe a single pad all over the face , avoiding the eye area .
Use up to 2 x daily , or as tolerated by skin .
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 Assembled in the USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
