sh - polypeptide - 1 , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract Oliglo Lifting Serum Water , Polyepsilon - Lysine , Sodium Hydroxide , Glycine , Serine , Glutamic Acid , Aspartic Acid , Leucine , Alanine , Lysine , Arginine , Tyrosine , Phenylalanine , Threonine , Proline , Valine , Isoleucine , Histidine , Methionine , Cysteine Oliglo Multi - Action Peptide Gel Pack Water , Carbomer , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Perilla Frutescens Leaf Extract , Chrysanthellum Indicum Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Nelumbo Nucifera Flower Extract , Jasminum Officinale ( Jasmine ) Flower / Leaf Extract , Rose Extract , Lilium Candidum Bulb Extract , Freesia Refracta Extract , Narcissus Pseudo - Narcissus ( Daffodil ) Flower Extract , Iris Versicolor Extract , Leontopodium Alpinum Flower / Leaf Extract , Copper Tripeptide - 1 , Nicotinoyl dipeptide - 23 , sh - polypeptide - 10 , Hexapeptide - 67 Palmitate , Bifida Ferment Lysate , Lactobacillus / ( Lemon / Orange ) Peel Extract Ferment Filtrate , Nicotinoyl Dipeptide - 22 , Tranexamoyl Dipeptide - 22 , Lactobacillus / Collagen Ferment Filtrate , Hexapeptide - 9 , Tripeptide - 1 , Tripeptide - 29 , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 Helps reduce wrinkles & fine lines Keep out of reach of the children Step 1 : Open the Lifting Serum .
Align your thumb and index finger around the over your face and neck .
You may use lightly under eyes avoding direct contact with eyes , lids , and lips .
Leave on for 30 minutes until the mask is completely dry .
Step 2 : Using lukewarm water , rinse the face and neck until the mask has been removed completely .
Setp 3 : Open the 24 K Gold Hyaluronic Serum .
Align your thumb and index finger around the pointy cap .
Push backward with light pressure to open .
Lightly tap into the palm of your hand to release the serum .
Softly massage all over your face and neck , then pat the serum into the skin for a lasting incandescent glow .
For External Use Only .
Do not use on eyes , lids , lips and / or any open wounds .
Steop using and consult a dermatologist if an allergic reaction occurs .
When using this product always follow with sunscreen .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
for external use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
