Dosage and Administration , Recommended Dosage 12 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REVCOVI is indicated for the treatment of adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency ( ADA - SCID ) in pediatric and adult patients .
REVCOVI is a recombinant adenosine deaminase indicated for the treatment of adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency ( ADA - SCID ) in pediatric and adult patients .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Patients transitioning from Adagen to REVCOVI : The starting dose of REVCOVI is 0 . 2 mg / kg weekly , intramuscularly .
See Full Prescribing Information ( FPI ) for conversion formula from Adagen to REVCOVI .
( 2 . 1 ) • Adagen - naïve patients : The starting dose of REVCOVI is 0 . 4 mg / kg weekly based on ideal body weight or actual weight whichever is greater , divided into two doses ( 0 . 2 mg / kg twice a week ) , intramuscularly .
( 2 . 1 ) • For complete information , maintenance dosing and therapeutic monitoring , see FPI .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • REVCOVI is for intramuscular injection only .
See FPI for administration instructions .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Patients transitioning from Adagen to REVCOVI If a patient ' s weekly Adagen dose is unknown , or a patient ' s weekly Adagen dose is at or lower than 30 U / kg , the recommended minimum starting dose of REVCOVI is 0 . 2 mg / kg , intramuscularly , once a week .
If a patient ' s weekly Adagen dose is above 30 U / kg , an equivalent weekly REVCOVI dose ( mg / kg ) should be calculated using the following conversion formula : REVCOVI dose in mg / kg = Adagen dose in U / kg 150 Subsequent doses may be increased by increments of 0 . 033 mg / kg weekly if trough ADA activity is under 30 mmol / hr / L , trough deoxyadenosine nucleotides ( dAXP ) are above 0 . 02 mmol / L , and / or the immune reconstitution is inadequate based on the clinical assessment of the patient .
The total weekly dose may be divided into multiple intramuscular ( IM ) administrations during a week .
Adagen - naïve patients The starting weekly dose of REVCOVI is 0 . 4 mg / kg based on ideal body weight or actual weight whichever is greater , divided into two doses ( 0 . 2 mg / kg twice a week ) , intramuscularly , for a minimum of 12 to 24 weeks until immune reconstitution is achieved .
After that , the dose may be gradually adjusted down to maintain trough ADA activity over 30 mmol / hr / L , trough dAXP level under 0 . 02 mmol / L , and / or to maintain adequate immune reconstitution based on clinical assessment of the patient .
The optimal long - term dose and schedule of administration should be established by the treating physician for each patient individually and may be adjusted based on the laboratory values for trough ADA activity , trough dAXP level , and / or on the treating physician ' s medical assessment of the patient ' s clinical status .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions REVCOVI is for IM injection only .
Follow sterile IM administration technique guidelines appropriate to the patient ' s age and anatomy ( i . e . choice of needle gauge and length , site of administration ) .
Take precautions not to inject into or near an artery or nerve .
Alternate the injection site periodically .
Preparation of Injection and Procedure Instructions • REVCOVI should not be diluted nor mixed with any other drug prior to administration .
• Visually inspect REVCOVI for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
REVCOVI is a clear , colorless solution ; discard if solution is discolored , cloudy or contains particulate matter .
• Do not freeze or shake .
REVCOVI should not be used if there are any indications that it may have been frozen .
Once removed from refrigeration , allow REVCOVI to equilibrate to room temperature for 30 minutes .
• REVCOVI is to be administered using polypropylene syringes .
Draw the solution from the vial with a 25 - gauge needle or larger .
• Change the needle to a size and gauge appropriate for the patient ' s intramuscular administration .
• REVCOVI should be administered immediately after syringe preparation .
• Any remaining medication in the vial must be discarded immediately .
2 . 3 Therapeutic Monitoring Schedule The treatment of ADA - SCID with REVCOVI should be monitored by measuring trough plasma ADA activity , trough dAXP levels , and / or total lymphocyte counts .
Monitoring should be more frequent if therapy was interrupted or if an enhanced rate of clearance of plasma ADA activity develops .
Collect blood samples for the analysis of trough plasma ADA activity and trough dAXP level prior to the first administration of REVCOVI for the week .
ADA Activity Once treatment with REVCOVI has been initiated , a target trough plasma ADA activity should be at least 30 mmol / hr / L .
In order to determine an effective dose of REVCOVI , trough plasma ADA activity ( pre - injection ) should be determined every 2 weeks for Adagen - naïve patients and every 4 weeks for patients previously receiving Adagen therapy , during the first 8 - 12 weeks of treatment , and every 3 - 6 months thereafter .
A decrease of ADA activity below this level suggests noncompliance to treatment or a development of antibodies ( anti - drug , anti - PEG , and neutralizing antibodies ) .
Antibodies to REVCOVI should be suspected if a persistent fall in pre - injection levels of trough plasma ADA activity below 15 mmol / hr / L occurs .
In such patients , testing for antibodies to REVCOVI should be performed .
If a persistent decline in trough plasma ADA activity occurs , immune function and clinical status should be monitored closely and precautions should be taken to minimize the risk of infection .
If antibodies to REVCOVI are found to be the cause of a persistent fall in trough plasma ADA activity , then adjustment in the dosage of REVCOVI and other measures may be taken to induce tolerance and restore adequate ADA activity .
Erythrocyte dAXP Two months after starting REVCOVI treatment , trough erythrocyte dAXP levels should be maintained below 0 . 02 mmol / L , and monitored at least twice a year .
Immune Function The degree of immune function may vary from patient to patient .
Each patient will require appropriate monitoring consistent with immunologic status .
Total and subset lymphocytes should be monitored periodically as follows : • Adagen - naïve patients : every 4 – 8 weeks for up to 1 year , and every 3 – 6 months thereafter • Other patients : every 3 - 6 months Immune function , including the ability to produce antibodies , generally improves after 2 - 6 months of therapy , and matures over a longer period .
In general , there is a lag between the correction of the metabolic abnormalities and improved immune function .
Improvement in the general clinical status of the patient may be gradual ( as evidenced by improvement in various clinical parameters ) but should be apparent by the end of the first year of therapy .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 2 . 4 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 . 6 mg / mL ) clear and colorless solution of elapegademase - lvlr in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 2 . 4 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 . 6 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Injection Site Bleeding in Patients with Thrombocytopenia : Increased risk of local bleeding in patients with thrombocytopenia ; should not be used if thrombocytopenia is severe .
( 5 . 1 ) • Delay in Improvement of Immune Function : Protect immune deficient patients from infections until improvement in immune function .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Injection Site Bleeding in Patients with Thrombocytopenia Since REVCOVI is administered by IM injection , it should be used with caution in patients with thrombocytopenia and should not be used if thrombocytopenia is severe .
5 . 2 Delay in Improvement of Immune Function Maintain precautions to protect immune deficient patients from infections until improvement in immune function has been achieved .
The timing and degree of improvement in immune function may vary from patient to patient .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions reported were cough ( 50 % ) and vomiting ( 33 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Chiesi USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 661 - 9260 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
REVCOVI was administered intramuscularly in two prospective , open - label , single - arm , multi ‑ center studies to evaluate efficacy , safety , tolerability , and pharmacokinetics in patients with ADA - SCID : Study 1 was performed in the US and Study 2 was performed in Japan [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Overall , 10 patients were treated and adverse reactions reported are summarized below .
Study 1 Study 1 is a one - way crossover study , conducted in the US , to evaluate the safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of REVCOVI in patients with ADA ‑ SCID who were receiving therapy with Adagen .
Six patients , 8 to 37 years of age enrolled in the study .
Patients ' exposure to REVCOVI ranged from 2 weeks to 146 weeks .
No deaths were reported and one patient discontinued treatment due to injection site pain associated with an earlier drug product formulation that was consequently modified .
The most common adverse reactions were cough ( 3 / 6 patients ) and vomiting ( 2 / 6 patients ) .
Other adverse reactions that were reported in one patient each were : abdominal pain upper , arthralgia , asthenia , cerumen impaction , conjunctivitis , convulsion , dental caries , diarrhea , ear canal irritation , ear lobe infection , epistaxis , fatigue , fungal skin infection , gait disturbance , gastrointestinal infection , groin abscess , hematochezia , haemophilus infection ( pulmonary ) , hemoptysis , influenza , injection site discomfort , laceration , lymphadenopathy , migraine , nasal edema , nausea , nephrolithiasis , oral candidiasis , oropharyngeal pain , otitis externa , productive cough , rash , stoma site infection , swelling face , tooth abscess , tooth extraction and upper respiratory tract infection , regardless of investigator causality assessment .
Study 2 Study 2 is a single - arm clinical study that was conducted to assess the safety , efficacy and pharmacokinetics of REVCOVI in patients with ADA - SCID .
Four patients 3 . 4 months to 25 years of age , all Asian , were enrolled in the study and received REVCOVI .
Three patients received REVCOVI for 21 weeks and one patient received REVCOVI for 15 weeks .
One death due to CMV pneumonitis and respiratory failure was observed in an infant , who had also experienced pulmonary hemorrhage , respiratory failure and upper respiratory tract infection that represented serious adverse events .
Neutropenia was a serious adverse reaction reported by one of the patients .
There were 22 reported adverse events for four patients .
Most common adverse events were respiratory infections ( 2 / 4 patients ) .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The immunogenicity results from Study 1 and Study 2 suggest that patients who previously received Adagen may present an immunologic response to REVCOVI .
Therefore , monitoring for changes in ADA levels during REVCOVI treatment is recommended .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] The observed incidence of antibodies ( including neutralizing antibodies ) is dependent on assay sensitivity and specificity , assay methodology , and concomitant medications .
Therefore , the comparison of the incidence of antibodies to REVCOVI with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience with ADAGEN The following postmarketing adverse reactions were voluntarily reported for Adagen , the same class of enzyme replacement therapy used in the treatment of ADA - SCID , and may also be seen with REVCOVI treatment : • Hematologic : hemolytic anemia , auto - immune hemolytic anemia , thrombocythemia , thrombocytopenia and autoimmune thrombocytopenia • Dermatological : injection site erythema , urticaria • Lymphomas Since these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The drug interaction potential of REVCOVI is not known .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Adequate and well - controlled studies with REVCOVI have not been conducted in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with REVCOVI .
It is not known whether REVCOVI can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
All pregnancies have a risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human No pregnancy was reported for any patients receiving REVCOVI .
There are two reports of confirmed cases of successful pregnancy and delivery in ADA - SCID patients treated with Adagen ( the same class of enzyme replacement therapy used in the treatment of ADA - SCID ) .
No teratogenic effects of Adagen were reported .
For patients treated with REVCOVI , more frequent monitoring of the health status for both the mother during pregnancy and the development of the offspring is recommended .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Human or animal lactation studies have not been conducted to assess the presence of REVCOVI in breast milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production for the mother .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for REVCOVI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from REVCOVI or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of REVCOVI have been established in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use REVCOVI was not studied in patients 65 years and older .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no reports of administration of REVCOVI in excess of the prescribed doses .
The highest weekly prescribed dose administered in the clinical studies was 0 . 4 mg / kg .
In nonclinical studies , there was no evidence of toxicity related to study drug at doses up to 1 . 8 - fold the clinical dose ( based on mean human AUC normalized to the dose of REVCOVI administered per patient ) , except for a slight increase in activated partial thromboplastin time ( APTT ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Elapegademase - lvlr is a recombinant adenosine deaminase ( rADA ) based on bovine amino acid sequence , conjugated to monomethoxypolyethylene glycol ( mPEG ) .
rADA is manufactured in E . coli and is covalently conjugated to mPEG with a succinimidyl carbamate linker to produce methoxypolyethylene glycol recombinant adenosine deaminase ( SC - PEG rADA ) .
The approximate molecular weight of elapegademase - lvlr ( SC - PEG rADA ) is 113 KDa .
REVCOVI ( elapegademase - lvlr ) injection is a sterile , preservative free , clear , colorless solution for intramuscular use supplied in single - dose vials .
Each vial provides 1 . 5 mL of solution containing 2 . 4 mg elapegademase - lvlr ( 1 . 6 mg / mL ) , sodium chloride ( 12 . 75 mg ) , sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate ( 12 . 7 mg ) , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate ( 3 . 81 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is 6 . 9 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action SCID associated with a deficiency of ADA enzyme is a rare , inherited , and often fatal disease .
ADA enzyme is involved in purine metabolism , catalyzing the irreversible hydrolytic deamination of adenosine or deoxyadenosine to inosine or deoxyinosine , respectively , as well as several naturally occurring methylated adenosine compounds .
Maintaining a low level of 2 ' - deoxyadenosine and adenosine is crucial for proper number and function of immune cells as well as decreasing the frequency of opportunistic infections .
Elevated adenosine levels , as occurring in ADA deficiency , contribute to apoptosis and a block in the differentiation of thymocytes , causing severe T ‑ lymphopenia .
Elapegademase - lvlr provides an exogenous source of ADA enzyme that is associated with a decrease in toxic adenosine and deoxyadenosine nucleotides levels as well as an increase in lymphocyte number [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of REVCOVI on the QT interval is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of REVCOVI were evaluated based on steady state plasma ADA activity in six patients with ADA - SCID ( five adults and one pediatric ) from two studies ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) who received weekly IM injections at doses ranging from 4 . 99 to 19 . 6 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The PK results are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 Individual Estimates of Steady State Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of REVCOVI Following Weekly IM Administration in ADA - SCID PatientsStudy Patient ' s Age ( yrs ) , Sex , Race Weekly Dose ( mg ) [ mg / kg ] Tmax ( hr ) DN AUC0 - 168 hr ( hr * mmol / hr / L ) / ( mg / kg ) b DN Cmax ( mmol / hr / L ) / ( mg / kg ) b Ctrough ( mmol / hr / L ) c a PK data calculated over the dosing interval after weekly IM administration of REVCOVI at a stable REVCOVI dose for at least five consecutive weeks b Dose - normalized ( DN ) AUC0 - 168 hr and Cmax estimates based on mg / kg / week dose of REVCOVI c Non - dose normalized steady state Ctrough ADA activity in plasma at Day 7 prior to administration of next weekly dose Study 1 a 19 , Male , Hispanic / Latino 10 . 0 [ 0 . 188 ] 47 . 7 32710 237 29 . 0 21 , Male , Hispanic / Latino 10 . 2 [ 0 . 224 ] 71 . 9 31343 219 37 . 7 37 , Male , Black / African American 19 . 6 [ 0 . 2 ] 48 . 2 42400 292 46 . 2 30 , Female , White / Caucasian 10 . 0 [ 0 . 209 ] 72 . 0 24564 166 23 . 5 Study 2 a 25 , Male , Asian 10 . 0 [ 0 . 167 ] 48 . 0 37605 251 33 . 5 16 , Female , Asian 4 . 99 [ 0 . 233 ] 27 . 2 19013 150 20 . 2 In Study 1 , steady state ADA activity levels were reached following seven consecutive once weekly IM doses of REVCOVI .
In addition , dAXP activity levels in all patients at the majority of all sampling timepoints in Study 1 were less than 0 . 02 mmol / L .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential or studies to evaluate mutagenic potential and impairment of fertility have not been performed with REVCOVI .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Study 1 Study 1 , conducted in the US ( NCT 01420627 ) , is an ongoing Phase 3 , open - label , multicenter , single - arm , one - way crossover study of REVCOVI .
The purpose of this clinical study is to evaluate the safety , efficacy , and PK of REVCOVI in 6 patients with ADA - SCID , 4 males and 2 females , who are receiving therapy with Adagen .
The study treatment consists of three phases : Adagen Lead - in Phase ( minimum of 3 weeks ) , the REVCOVI Treatment Phase ( weeks 1 through 21 ) , and followed by the REVCOVI Maintenance Phase .
Six patients treated in the study were 8 to 37 years of age at the start of the study .
The starting weekly dose of REVCOVI was calculated based on the last Adagen dose received in the study .
Weekly REVCOVI doses ranged from 0 . 188 mg / kg to 0 . 292 mg / kg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The efficacy endpoints assessed were as follows : • Trough dAXP Level ( metabolic detoxification was defined as a trough erythrocyte dAXP concentration equal to or below 0 . 02 mmol / L ) • Trough plasma ADA activity ( adequate trough plasma ADA activity is defined as trough plasma ADA activity equal to or above 15 mmol / hr / L ) • Immune status ( lymphocyte and B - , T - , and NK - lymphocyte subset counts as well as quantitative immunoglobulin [ Ig ] concentration [ IgG , IgA , IgM ] ) A PK assessment was performed during Week 9 of the REVCOVI Treatment phase [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Five of six patients reached the 21 - week endpoint of the Treatment Phase , and three of six patients received treatment with REVCOVI ( elapegademase - lvlr ) for over 135 weeks .
These patients ( except for one value in a patient at Treatment Week 47 ) had erythrocyte dAXP concentration equal to or below 0 . 02 mmol / L .
These patients had trough plasma ADA activity equal to or above 15 mmol / hr / L at 88 / 89 timepoints and maintained metabolic detoxification for at least 2 years under REVCOVI treatment .
Patients achieved trough plasma ADA activity above 30 mmol / hr / L by week 5 , except for one patient who achieved this level at week 1 .
The mean trough plasma ADA activity for patients receiving REVCOVI at a normalized dose of 0 . 2 mg / kg / week were 34 . 3 ± 6 . 6 mmol / hr / L .
The same patients had a mean trough plasma ADA activity of 14 . 2 ± 5 . 1 mmol / hr / L when treated with Adagen at a normalized dose of 30 U / kg / week during the Lead - in Phase of the study .
Lymphocyte and subset counts during REVCOVI treatment increased above levels observed during the Adagen Lead - in Phase ( i . e . , PK day 1 or before the start of REVCOVI treatment ) : maximum increases of approximately 3 - fold at Weeks 60 - 73 for one patient , maximum increases of approximately 2 - to 3 - fold at Weeks 73 - 99 for one patient and approximately 1 . 5 - to 3 - fold for the third patient at several timepoints .
For these three patients who completed the primary endpoint ( 21 weeks of treatment ) and received REVCOVI for over 135 weeks , a positive trend between high trough plasma ADA activity and increased total lymphocyte counts was observed .
Observations for the other three patients in the study , indicate that these patients also achieved complete detoxification based on trough dAXP level and trough plasma ADA activity , and show stable or slightly increased lymphocyte counts during REVCOVI treatment relative to values recorded during the Adagen Lead - in Phase .
14 . 2 Study 2 Study 2 , conducted in Japan , is a single - arm clinical study that assessed the safety , efficacy and PK of REVCOVI in patients with ADA - SCID .
The study includes two phases : 1 ) Evaluation , consisting of a Dose Adjustment Period ( 5 weeks ) and a Dose Maintenance Period ( 16 weeks ) ; and 2 ) Continuous Administration ( Extension ) Phase , to be continued until the end of the study .
A total of four patients were enrolled in the study : two males ( age 25 years and 3 . 4 months ) and two females ( age 16 years and 4 . 3 months ) .
Two patients , who were on Adagen treatment within 4 weeks before entering the study , received a first dose of REVCOVI that was calculated to be equivalent to the last Adagen dose received .
One patient , who did not receive Adagen within four weeks prior to entering the study , was given the first dose of REVCOVI at 0 . 1 mg / kg body weight , followed by second and third doses at 0 . 133 mg / kg body weight and weekly thereafter .
Over the dose adjustment phase of the study , the dose was titrated to meet criteria for dAXP level ( equal to or below 0 . 02 mmol / L ) and adequate trough ADA activity ( equal to or above 15 mmol / hr / L ) .
These three patients received REVCOVI for at least 21 weeks ( having completed the 5 - week Dosage Adjustment Period and the 16 - week Maintenance Period ) before entering the Extension Phase .
The fourth patient ( newly diagnosed Adagen - naïve patient with CMV pneumonia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] ) was dosed with REVCOVI at 0 . 4 mg / kg weekly ( divided into two IM administrations ) for 16 weeks .
All four of the patients in Study 2 achieved and maintained detoxification ( trough dAXP [ erythrocyte or blood ] ≤ 0 . 02 mmol / L ) throughout their participation in the Treatment Phase of 21 weeks ( Dose Adjustment and Dose Maintenance ) .
Serum ADA activity increased after administering REVCOVI for all four patients , with three patients achieving activity level over 15 mmol / hr / L during the Dose Maintenance Period .
Total lymphocyte counts and B - / T - / NK - lymphocyte subset counts for three patients increased from screening to Day 15 during dose adjustment and were stable or increasing during the Maintenance Period .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING REVCOVI ( elapegademase - lvlr ) injection , 2 . 4 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 . 6 mg / mL ) , is a sterile , preservative free , clear , colorless solution for intramuscular use available as one single - dose vial per carton ( NDC 10122 - 502 - 01 ) .
The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex .
Single - dose vial ; do not re - use the vial .
Discard unused portions .
Store REVCOVI in the refrigerator between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze or shake .
REVCOVI should not be used if there are any indications that it may have been frozen .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Importance of Compliance Counsel patients and caregivers that continuous therapy and adherence to the recommended drug schedule is important for the success of the treatment .
Manufactured by : Chiesi USA , Inc .
Cary , NC 27518 , USA , U . S . License No . 2150 at Exelead Inc . , 6925 Guion Rd , Indianapolis , IN 46268 , USA CTRV - 001 - 1120 - 00 - SPL - 2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 4 mg / 1 . 5 mL Vial Carton NDC10122 - 502 - 01 Revcovi ® ( elapegademase - lvlr ) Injection 2 . 4 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 1 . 6 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular Use Only SINGLE - DOSE VIAL Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
