Active ingredient ( in each chewing piece ) Nicotine polacrilex 2 mg ( nicotine ) Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium - restricted diet • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth , teeth , or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you .
• before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine gum • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine gum according to the following 12 week schedule Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles .
Then park it between your cheek and gum .
When the tingle is gone , begin chewing again , until the tingle returns .
• repeat the process until most of the tingle is gone ( about 30 minutes ) • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum , or while chewing a piece • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • if you experience strong or frequent cravings , you may use a second piece within the hour .
However , do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
• do not use more than 24 pieces a day • It is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • each piece contains : calcium 115 mg , sodium 11 mg • store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) • protect from light Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , butylated hydroxytoluene , carnauba wax , flavors , gum base , sodium bicarbonate , sodium carbonate , sorbitol , talc Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 935 - 2362 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel * Compare to the active ingredient of Nicorette ® Gum Nicotine Gum Stop Smoking Aid Nicotine polacrilex gum USP , 2 mg ( nicotine ) FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE MORE THAN 30 MINUTES OF WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette WITHIN 30 MINUTES after waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum USP , 4 mg 2 mg Sugar - free UNCOATED ORIGINAL FLAVOR TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
2 .
Use Enough - Use at least 9 Nicotine Polacrilex Gum per day during the first six weeks .
3 .
Use Long Enough - Use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum for the full 12 weeks .
4 .
Use With a Support Program as directed in the enclosed User ' s Guide .
To remove the gum , tear off single unit .
Peel off backing starting at corner with loose edge .
Push gum through foil • NOT FOR SALE TO THOSE UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE • PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED • NOT FOR SALE IN VENDING MACHINES OR FROM ANY SOURCE WHERE PROOF OF AGE CANNOT BE VERIFIED * This product is not manufactured or distributed by GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare , L . P . , distributor of Nicorette ® mini Lozenge .
See inside for more details or visit www . nitthehabit . com BLISTER PACKAGED FOR YOUR PROTECTION .
DO NOT USE IF INDIVIDUAL SEALS ARE OPEN OR TORN Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W 9 Mile Rd Novi , MI 48375 www . qualitychoice . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
