Drug Facts Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Use Helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Keep out of eyes , rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and see a doctor if irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions Apply evenly before sun exposure and as needed .
Reapply as needed .
Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Butylene Glycol , Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate , Ceteth - 20 , Steareth - 2 , Squalane , Dimethicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cetyl Alcohol , Pentylene Glycol , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 75 Stearate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Retinol , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Allantoin , Allyl Methacrylates Crosspolymer , Polysorbate 20 , Polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Laureth - 7 , Carbomer , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Disodium EDTA , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Hexylene Glycol , O - Cymen - 5 - Ol .
Retinol Retinol supports skin ' s natural collagen to help prevent the signs of aging .
The purest form of Vitamin A , it helps reduce the appearance of skin discoloration , pores and wrinkles .
It noticeably improves skin ' s texture and helps restore a healthy glow .
This line is specially formulated to be less irritating than most retinol - based products .
Skin Effects Firming Facial Cream with Retinol Complex SPF 30 " When I developed this skin care line , I was determined to provide the most technologically advanced formulations .
I believe in creating skin care products that deliver the results you want , healthy , younger - looking , more beautiful skin . "
Dr . Jeffrey Dover The Skin Effects Firming Facial Cream with Retinol Complex SPF 30 contains retinol , advanced hydration and SPF protection .
This trio of powerful ingredients is time - released to improve brightness , firmness , moisture and skin tone .
Antioxidant Vitamins C and E condition skin and help protect against free radicals .
• Unique formula causes less irritation than most retinol - based products • Helps moisturize , firm and renew skin ' s surface for a smoother tone and texture • Provides high protection against future UVA / UVB damage with SPF 30 • Paraben free Directions : Apply daily to freshly cleansed face and neck .
Use before sun exposure for sunscreen benefits .
Skin Effects : A Complete Anti - Aging Regimen For optimal results , use this product as a complete regimen with the Skin Effects cleansers , scrubs , anti - aging treatments , creams and moisturizes with SPF protection .
Warnings : For external use only .
Keep out of eyes and mucosa .
If contact occurs , rinse well with water .
If irritation , redness or itching occurs discontinue use and consult a physician .
In case of accidental ingestion , get professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Keep out of reach of children .
For external use only .
Keep out of eyes , rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and see a doctor if irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : Advanced Healthcare Distributors , L . L . C . Concord , NH 03301 Questions or Comments ?
Call Toll Free 1 - 866 - 428 - 7327 To find the Skin Effects regimen that is right for you go to www . skineffectsbydrdover . com Not tested on animals skin effects Firming Facial Cream with Retinol Complex SPF 30 1 oz / 28 . 3 g skin effects by Dr . Jeffrey Dover Firming Facial Cream with Retinol Complex SPF 30 • Trio of powerful ingredients diminishes the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles • Helps renew skin ' s surface to dramatically improve tone and texture NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 . 3 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
