1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADLARITY is indicated for the treatment of mild , moderate , and severe dementia of the Alzheimer ’ s type .
ADLARITY is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of mild , moderate , and severe dementia of the Alzheimer ’ s type .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended starting dosage is 5 mg / day .
After 4 to 6 weeks , the dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 10 mg / day .
( 2 . 1 ) • If a patient has been on 5 mg / day oral donepezil for at least 4 - 6 weeks or on 10 mg / day of oral donepezil , the recommended starting dosage is 10 mg / day .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer ADLARITY as one transdermal system applied to the skin once weekly .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dosage of ADLARITY is 5 mg / day .
After 4 to 6 weeks , the dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 10 mg / day .
Administer ADLARITY as one transdermal system applied to the skin once weekly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Doses of the transdermal system higher than the 10 mg / day equivalent have not been evaluated .
2 . 2 Switching to ADLARITY from Donepezil Hydrochloride Tablets or Donepezil Hydrochloride ODT Patients treated with donepezil hydrochloride 5 mg or 10 mg tablets may be switched to ADLARITY : • A patient who is being treated with a total daily dose of 5 mg of oral donepezil hydrochloride can be switched to the once weekly 5 mg / day ADLARITY transdermal system .
If a patient has been on 5 mg oral donepezil hydrochloride for at least 4 - 6 weeks , the patient may be switched immediately to the once weekly 10 mg / day transdermal system .
• A patient who is being treated with a total daily dose of 10 mg of oral donepezil hydrochloride can be switched to the once weekly 10 mg / day ADLARITY transdermal system .
Instruct patients or caregivers to apply the first transdermal system with the last administered oral dose .
2 . 3 Administration Information Each ADLARITY transdermal system delivers either 5 mg or 10 mg of donepezil daily for 7 days ( one week cycle ) .
At the end of 7 days , the used transdermal system is removed , and a new transdermal system is applied .
Only one transdermal system should be applied at a time .
See the Instructions for Use for step - by - step instructions .
Preparation • Remove one ADLARITY transdermal system from the refrigerator and allow the pouch to reach room temperature before opening .
o Do not use external heat sources to warm ADLARITY .
o Do not apply a cold transdermal system .
o Use within 24 hours of removing from the refrigerator .
• Ensure the ADLARITY pouch seal has not been broken .
Do not use ADLARITY if the transdermal system is damaged , cut , or altered in any way .
• Select application site : o The recommended application site is the back ( avoiding the spine ) .
If needed , the upper buttocks or the upper outer thigh may be used [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
Use a location that will not be rubbed by tight clothing .
o Do not use the same location of an application site for at least 2 weeks ( 14 days ) after removal of a transdermal system from that location .
o Do not apply to an area on skin where medication , cream , lotion , or powder has recently been applied .
o Do not apply to skin that is red , irritated , or cut .
o Do not shave the site .
Application • Apply ADLARITY to skin immediately after removing from the pouch .
• Apply to clean , dry , intact healthy skin with no to minimal hair ( see Preparation ) .
• Press down firmly for 30 seconds to ensure good contact with skin at the edges of the transdermal system .
• ADLARITY use does not need to be interrupted due to bathing or hot weather .
Avoid long exposure to external heat sources ( e . g . , excessive sunlight , saunas , solariums or heating pads ) .
2 . 4 Missed Dose If an ADLARITY transdermal system falls off , or if a dose is missed , apply a new transdermal system immediately and then replace this transdermal system 7 days later to start a new one - week cycle [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ADLARITY is a rectangular transdermal system with rounded corners and a tan colored backing layer .
ADLARITY is available in 2 strengths and labeled as either : • ADLARITY ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day ( 8 . 3 cm by 10 . 8 cm ) • ADLARITY ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day ( 10 . 8 cm by 14 . 4 cm ) • Transdermal System : 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ADLARITY is contraindicated in : • Patients with known hypersensitivity to donepezil or to piperidine derivatives • Patients with a history of allergic contact dermatitis with use of ADLARITY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to donepezil or to piperidine derivatives ( 4 ) • History of allergic contact dermatitis with use of ADLARITY ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Application - site reactions have occurred with ADLARITY .
Allergic contact dermatitis should be suspected if application - site reactions spread beyond the size of the transdermal system , if there is evidence of a more intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) , and / or if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , are likely to exaggerate succinylcholine - type muscle relaxation during anesthesia .
( 5 . 2 ) • Cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , may have vagotonic effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes manifesting as bradycardia or heart block .
( 5 . 3 ) • ADLARITY can cause vomiting .
Patients should be observed closely at initiation of treatment and after dose increases .
( 5 . 4 ) • Patients should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding , especially those at increased risk for developing ulcers .
( 5 . 5 ) • Cholinomimetics , including ADLARITY , may cause bladder outflow obstructions .
( 5 . 6 ) • Cholinomimetics , including ADLARITY , are believed to have some potential to cause generalized convulsions .
( 5 . 7 ) • Cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , should be prescribed with caution to patients with a history of asthma or obstructive pulmonary disease .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Application Site Skin Reactions Skin application - site reactions have occurred with ADLARITY [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
These reactions are not in themselves an indication of sensitization .
However , use of ADLARITY may lead to allergic contact dermatitis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Allergic contact dermatitis should be suspected if application - site reactions spread beyond the size of the transdermal system , if there is evidence of a more intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) , and if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal .
5 . 2 Use During Anesthesia ADLARITY , as a cholinesterase inhibitor , is likely to exaggerate succinylcholine - type muscle relaxation during anesthesia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cardiovascular Conditions Because of their pharmacological action , cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , may have vagotonic effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes .
This effect may manifest as bradycardia or heart block in patients both with and without known underlying cardiac conduction abnormalities .
Syncopal episodes have been reported in association with the use of donepezil .
5 . 4 Nausea and Vomiting Donepezil , as a predictable consequence of its pharmacological properties , has been shown to produce diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Although in most cases , these effects have been transient , sometimes lasting one to three weeks , and have resolved during continued use of donepezil , patients should be observed closely at the initiation of treatment and after dose increases .
5 . 5 Peptic Ulcer Disease and GI Bleeding Through their primary action , cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , may be expected to increase gastric acid secretion due to increased cholinergic activity .
Therefore , patients should be monitored closely for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding , especially those at increased risk for developing ulcers ( e . g . , those with a history of ulcer disease or those receiving concurrent nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs [ NSAIDs ] ) .
Clinical studies of donepezil tablets in a dose of 5 mg / day to 10 mg / day have shown no increase , relative to placebo , in the incidence of either peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
5 . 6 Genitourinary Conditions Although not observed in clinical trials of ADLARITY or donepezil tablets , cholinomimetics , including ADLARITY , may cause bladder outflow obstruction .
5 . 7 Neurological Conditions : Seizures Cholinomimetics , including ADLARITY , are believed to have some potential to cause generalized convulsions .
However , seizure activity also may be a manifestation of Alzheimer ’ s disease .
5 . 8 Pulmonary Conditions Because of their cholinomimetic actions , cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , should be prescribed with caution to patients with a history of asthma or obstructive pulmonary disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Application Site Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiovascular Conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Nausea and Vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Peptic Ulcer Disease and GI Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Genitourinary Conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Neurological Conditions : Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Pulmonary Conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( greater than 5 % with donepezil tablets and twice the placebo rate ) are nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , vomiting , muscle cramps , fatigue , and anorexia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Corium , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 910 - 8432 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Donepezil Tablet Studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] Donepezil tablets have been administered to over 1 , 700 individuals during clinical trials worldwide .
Approximately 1 , 200 of these patients have been treated for at least 3 months and more than 1 , 000 patients have been treated for at least 6 months .
Controlled and uncontrolled trials in the United States included approximately 900 patients .
In regard to the highest dose of 10 mg / day , this population includes 650 patients treated for 3 months , 475 patients treated for 6 months , and 116 patients treated for over 1 year .
The range of patient exposure is from 1 to 1 , 214 days .
Mild to Moderate Alzheimer ’ s Disease Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation The rates of discontinuation from controlled clinical trials of donepezil tablets due to adverse reactions for the donepezil 5 mg / day treatment groups were comparable to those of placebo treatment groups at approximately 5 % .
The rate of discontinuation of patients who received 7 - day escalations of donepezil tablets from 5 mg / day to 10 mg / day was higher at 13 % .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation , defined as those occurring in at least 2 % of patients and at twice or more the incidence seen in placebo patients , are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer ’ s DiseaseAdverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 355 ) % 5 mg / day donepezil tablet ( n = 350 ) % 10 mg / day donepezil tablet ( n = 315 ) % Nausea 1 1 3 Diarrhea 0 < 1 3 Vomiting < 1 < 1 2 Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in patients receiving donepezil tablets 10 mg / day and twice the placebo rate , are nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , vomiting , muscle cramp , fatigue , and anorexia .
These adverse reactions were often transient , resolving during continued donepezil treatment without the need for dose modification .
There is evidence to suggest that the frequency of these common adverse reactions may be affected by the rate of titration .
An open - label study was conducted with 269 patients who received placebo in the 15 - and 30 - week studies .
These patients were titrated to a dose of 10 mg / day over a 6 - week period .
The rates of common adverse reactions were lower than those seen in patients titrated to donepezil tablets 10 mg / day over one week in the controlled clinical trials and were comparable to those seen in patients on 5 mg / day .
See Table 3 for a comparison of the most common adverse reactions following one - and six - week titration regimens .
Table 3 .
Comparison of Rates of Adverse Reactions in Mild to Moderate Patients Titrated to 10 mg / day over 1 and 6 Weeks No titration One week titration Six - week titration Adverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 315 ) % 5 mg / day donepezil tablet ( n = 311 ) % 10 mg / day donepezil tablet ( n = 315 ) % 10 mg / day donepezil tablet ( n = 269 ) % Nausea 6 5 19 6 Diarrhea 5 8 15 9 Insomnia 6 6 14 6 Fatigue 3 4 8 3 Vomiting 3 3 8 5 Muscle cramps 2 6 8 3 Anorexia 2 3 7 3 Table 4 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of patients in pooled placebo - controlled trials who received either donepezil tablets 5 mg or 10 mg and for which the rate of occurrence was greater for patients treated with donepezil than with placebo .
In general , adverse reactions occurred more frequently in female patients and with advancing age .
Table 4 .
Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer ’ s DiseaseAdverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 355 ) % Donepezil Tablet ( n = 747 ) % Percent of Patients with any Adverse Reaction 72 74 Nausea 6 11 Diarrhea 5 10 Headache 9 10 Insomnia 6 9 Pain , various locations 8 9 Dizziness 6 8 Accident 6 7 Muscle Cramps 2 6 Fatigue 3 5 Vomiting 3 5 Anorexia 2 4 Ecchymosis 3 4 Abnormal Dreams 0 3 Depression < 1 3 Weight Loss 1 3 Arthritis 1 2 Frequent Urination 1 2 Somnolence < 1 2 Syncope 1 2 Severe Alzheimer ’ s Disease ( Donepezil Tablets 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day ) Donepezil tablets have been administered to over 600 patients with severe Alzheimer ’ s disease during clinical trials of at least 6 months duration , including three double - blind , placebo - controlled trials , two of which had an open label extension .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation The rates of discontinuation from controlled clinical trials of donepezil tablets due to adverse reactions for the donepezil patients were approximately 12 % compared to 7 % for placebo patients .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation , defined as those occurring in at least 2 % of donepezil patients and at twice or more the incidence seen in placebo , were anorexia ( 2 % vs . 1 % placebo ) , nausea ( 2 % vs . < 1 % placebo ) , diarrhea ( 2 % vs . 0 % placebo ) , and urinary tract infection ( 2 % vs . 1 % placebo ) .
Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in patients receiving donepezil tablets and at twice or more the placebo rate , are diarrhea , anorexia , vomiting , nausea , and ecchymosis .
These adverse reactions were often transient , resolving during continued donepezil treatment without the need for dose modification .
Table 5 lists adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of patients in pooled placebo - controlled trials who received donepezil tablets 5 mg or 10 mg and for which the rate of occurrence was greater for patients treated with donepezil than with placebo .
Table 5 .
Adverse Reactions in Pooled Controlled Clinical Trials in Severe Alzheimer ’ s Disease Adverse Reaction Placebo ( n = 392 ) % Donepezil Tablet ( n = 501 ) % Percent of Patients with any Adverse Reaction 73 81 Accident 12 13 Infection 9 11 Diarrhea 4 10 Anorexia 4 8 Vomiting 4 8 Nausea 2 6 Insomnia 4 5 Ecchymosis 2 5 Headache 3 4 Hypertension 2 3 Pain 2 3 Back Pain 2 3 Eczema 2 3 Hallucinations 1 3 Hostility 2 3 Increase in Creatine Phosphokinase 1 3 Nervousness 2 3 Fever 1 2 Chest Pain < 1 2 Confusion 1 2 Dehydration 1 2 Depression 1 2 Dizziness 1 2 Emotional Lability 1 2 Hemorrhage 1 2 Hyperlipemia < 1 2 Personality Disorder 1 2 Somnolence 1 2 Syncope 1 2 Urinary Incontinence 1 2 ADLARITY Transdermal System Study The ADLARITY clinical development program included an open - label study in 60 healthy subjects who received ADLARITY 5 mg / day for 5 weeks in Period 1 as a titration dose .
In Periods 2 and 3 , the subjects received either ADLARITY 10 mg / day for 5 weeks or oral donepezil tablet 10 mg / day for 5 weeks in a randomized , crossover fashion .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 3 % ) occurring in healthy subjects receiving ADLARITY 10 mg / day were headache ( 15 % ) , application site pruritus ( 9 % ) , muscle spasms ( 9 % ) , insomnia ( 7 % ) , abdominal pain ( 6 % ) , application site dermatitis ( 6 % ) , constipation ( 6 % ) , diarrhea ( 4 % ) , application site pain ( 4 % ) , dizziness ( 4 % ) , abnormal dreams ( 4 % ) , and skin laceration ( 4 % ) .
Overall , the adverse reactions reported by healthy volunteers receiving the ADLARITY transdermal system were consistent with those reported by Alzheimer ’ s patients receiving oral donepezil tablets in clinical trials .
Application Site Reactions Cases of skin irritation were captured after ADLARITY removal on an investigator - rated skin irritation scale .
Skin irritation was observed , including erythema ( 64 . 6 % ) , papules ( 16 . 0 % ) , and edema ( 0 . 4 % ) , following removal of 268 ADLARITY 10 mg / day transdermal systems ; none of the ADLARITY transdermal systems were discontinued because of skin irritation .
All application site adverse reactions were reported as mild .
In a clinical study investigating the skin sensitizing potential of ADLARITY in 229 healthy subjects , 4 cases of potential sensitization were observed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of donepezil .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : hemolytic anemia Cardiac Disorders : heart block ( all types ) , QTc prolongation , and torsade de pointes Gastrointestinal Disorders : abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders : cholecystitis , hepatitis , pancreatitis Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders : hyponatremia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : convulsions , neuroleptic malignant syndrome Psychiatric Disorder : agitation , aggression , confusion , hallucinations Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications .
( 7 . 1 ) • A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine , similar neuromuscular blocking agents , or cholinergic agonists .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Anticholinergics Because of the mechanism of action , cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications .
7 . 2 Cholinomimetics and Other Cholinesterase Inhibitors A synergistic effect may be expected when ADLARITY is given concurrently with succinylcholine , similar neuromuscular blocking agents , or cholinergic agonists ( e . g . , bethanechol ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with the use of ADLARITY in pregnant women .
Adverse developmental effects ( mortality and decreased body weight ) were observed in the offspring of rats administered donepezil during pregnancy at a dose associated with minimal maternal toxicity .
This dose was higher than the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of ADLARITY [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
The background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of donepezil to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in no adverse developmental effects .
The highest doses ( 16 and 10 mg / kg / day , respectively ) were approximately 16 and 19 times , respectively , the dose of donepezil at the MRHD of ADLARITY ( 10 mg / day ) on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral administration of donepezil ( 1 , 3 , 10 mg / kg / day ) to rats during late gestation and throughout lactation to weaning resulted in an increase in stillbirths and offspring mortality at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose ( 3 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 3 times the MRHD of ADLARITY on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of donepezil or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ADLARITY and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ADLARITY or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Alzheimer ’ s disease is a disorder occurring primarily in individuals over 55 years of age .
The mean age of patients enrolled in the clinical studies with donepezil tablets was 73 years ; 80 % of these patients were between 65 and 84 years old , and 49 % of patients were at or above the age of 75 .
The efficacy and safety data presented in the clinical trials section were obtained from these patients .
There were no clinically significant differences in most adverse reactions reported by patient groups ≥ 65 years old and < 65 years old [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to remove the ADLARITY transdermal system and contact a Poison Control Center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
In case of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized .
Overdosage with cholinesterase inhibitors , including ADLARITY , can result in cholinergic crisis characterized by severe nausea , vomiting , salivation , sweating , bradycardia , hypotension , respiratory depression , collapse , and convulsions .
Increasing muscle weakness is a possibility and may result in death if respiratory muscles are involved .
Tertiary anticholinergics such as atropine may be used as an antidote for donepezil overdosage .
Intravenous atropine sulfate titrated to effect is recommended : an initial dose of 1 . 0 to 2 . 0 mg IV with subsequent doses based upon clinical response .
Atypical responses in blood pressure and heart rate have been reported with other cholinomimetics when co - administered with quaternary anticholinergics such as glycopyrrolate .
It is not known whether donepezil and / or its metabolites can be removed by dialysis ( hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , or hemofiltration ) .
Dose - related signs of toxicity in animals included reduced spontaneous movement , prone position , staggering gait , lacrimation , clonic convulsions , depressed respiration , salivation , miosis , tremors , fasciculation , and lower body surface temperature .
11 DESCRIPTION ADLARITY ( donepezil transdermal system ) contains donepezil hydrocholoride , which is a reversible inhibitor of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase , known chemically as ( ± ) - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 5 , 6 - dimethoxy - 2 - [ [ 1 - ( phenyl - methyl ) - 4 - piperidinyl ] methyl ] - 1 H - inden - 1 - one hydrochloride .
Donepezil hydrochloride is commonly referred to in the pharmacological literature as E2020 .
It has an empirical formula of C24H29NO3 · HCl and a molecular weight of 415 . 96 g / mol .
Donepezil hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder and is freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in water and in glacial acetic acid , slightly soluble in ethanol and in acetonitrile , and practically insoluble in ethyl acetate and in n - hexane .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ADLARITY is for transdermal administration of donepezil over a 7 - day period .
The transdermal system is a rectangular 6 - layer laminate containing a tan colored overlay backing / adhesive layer without donepezil , separating layer , drug matrix , membrane , contact adhesive , and a release liner .
Figure 1 : Cross Section of ADLARITY [ MULTIMEDIA ] The ADLARITY transdermal system is available in two strengths ( 5 mg donepezil / day and 10 mg donepezil / day ) .
Each system contains donepezil 88 . 4 mg or 176 . 7 mg donepezil , respectively , present as donepezil ( 15 % to 35 % ) and donepezil HCl ( 65 % to 85 % ) .
The inactive ingredients include acrylate copolymer , ascorbyl palmitate , crospovidone , glycerol , lauryl lactate , polypropylene membrane , sodium bicarbonate , sorbitan monolaurate , and triethyl citrate .
The transdermal system contains a mixture of donepezil hydrochloride and donepezil base that delivers donepezil base to permeate the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Donepezil is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect by enhancing cholinergic function .
This is accomplished by increasing the concentration of acetylcholine through reversible inhibition of its hydrolysis by acetylcholinesterase .
There is no evidence that donepezil alters the course of the underlying dementing process .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a relative bioavailability study following administration of multiple doses in 60 healthy volunteers , donepezil exposure ( i . e . , AUCtau and Cmax at steady state ) from once weekly ADLARITY 10 mg / day was comparable with that from daily donepezil tablets 10 mg / day .
A delay in absorption of donepezil is observed on initial transdermal system ( TDS ) application followed by a gradual increase in donepezil exposure over the course of the 7 - day TDS application .
With single - dose administration , maximum plasma donepezil concentrations are achieved in the latter part of the 7 - day application period for ADLARITY 5 mg / day .
Following multiple dose administration of ADLARITY , steady state is reached within 22 days ( after three weeks ) .
Donepezil exposure was dose proportional between ADLARITY 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day .
Donepezil exposure ( AUCinf and Cmax ) was 14 - 18 % lower , and 21 - 24 % higher , when the transdermal system was applied on the thigh and buttocks , respectively , when compared to application on the back [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Mean plasma donepezil concentration profiles showed transitory increases ( up to 60 % increase in the partial AUC corresponding to the heat application periods ) during heat sessions compared with control conditions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Distribution Donepezil is approximately 96 % bound to human plasma proteins , mainly to albumins ( about 75 % ) and alpha1 - acid glycoprotein ( about 21 % ) over the concentration range of 2 - 1000 ng / mL .
The steady state volume of distribution of donepezil is 12 - 16 L / kg .
Elimination Metabolism Donepezil is metabolized by CYP 450 isoenzymes 2D6 and 3A4 and undergoes glucuronidation .
An active metabolite of donepezil , 6 - O - desmethyl donepezil , has been reported to inhibit acetylcholinesterase to the same extent as donepezil in vitro .
In the relative bioavailability study for ADLARITY , the systemic exposure to 6 - O - desmethyl donepezil was less than 0 . 3 % relative to donepezil exposure at steady state .
Excretion Donepezil is both excreted in the urine intact and extensively metabolized to four major metabolites , two of which are known to be active , and a number of minor metabolites , not all of which have been identified .
Following administration of 14 C - labeled donepezil , approximately 57 % and 15 % of the total radioactivity was recovered in urine and feces , respectively , over a period of 10 days , while 28 % remained unrecovered , with about 17 % of the donepezil dose recovered in the urine as unchanged drug .
The mean elimination half - life of donepezil following administration of ADLARITY is about 91 hours , and the mean apparent plasma clearance at steady state ( CLss / F ) is 0 . 12 L / hr / kg .
Specific Populations Patients with Hepatic Impairment In a study of 10 patients with stable alcoholic cirrhosis , the clearance of donepezil was decreased by 20 % relative to 10 healthy age - and sex - matched subjects .
Patients with Renal Impairment In a study of 11 patients with moderate to severe renal impairment the clearance of donepezil did not differ from 11 age - and sex - matched healthy subjects .
Age No formal pharmacokinetic study was conducted to examine age - related differences in the pharmacokinetics of donepezil .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggested that the clearance of donepezil in patients decreases with increasing age .
When compared with 65 - year old subjects , 90 - year old subjects have a 17 % decrease in clearance , while 40 - year old subjects have a 33 % increase in clearance .
The effect of age on donepezil clearance may not be clinically significant .
Gender and Race No specific pharmacokinetic study was conducted to investigate the effects of gender and race on the disposition of donepezil .
However , retrospective pharmacokinetic analysis and population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma donepezil concentrations measured in patients with Alzheimer ’ s disease indicates that gender and race ( Japanese and Caucasians ) did not affect the clearance of donepezil to an important degree .
Body Weight There was a relationship noted between body weight and clearance for donepezil .
Over the range of body weight from 50 kg to 110 kg , clearance increased from 7 . 77 L / h to 14 . 04 L / h , with a value of 10 L / hr for 70 kg individuals .
Drug Interactions Effect of Donepezil on the Metabolism of Other Drugs No in vivo clinical trials have investigated the effect of donepezil on the clearance of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 ( e . g . , midazolam ) or by CYP2D6 ( e . g . , imipramine ) .
However , in vitro studies show a low rate of binding to these enzymes ( mean Ki about 50 - 130 μM ) , that , given the therapeutic plasma concentrations of donepezil ( 164 nM ) , indicates little likelihood of interference .
Based on in vitro studies , donepezil shows little or no evidence of direct inhibition of CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , and CYP2C19 at clinically relevant concentrations .
Whether donepezil has any potential for enzyme induction is not known .
Formal pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the potential of donepezil for interaction with theophylline , cimetidine , warfarin , digoxin , and ketoconazole .
No effects of donepezil on the pharmacokinetics of these drugs were observed .
Effect of Other Drugs on the Metabolism of Donepezil Ketoconazole and quinidine , strong inhibitors of CYP450 3 A and 2D6 , respectively , inhibit donepezil metabolism in vitro .
Whether there is a clinical effect of quinidine is not known .
In a 7 - day crossover study in 18 healthy volunteers , ketoconazole ( 200 mg once daily ) increased mean donepezil ( 5 mg once daily ) concentrations ( AUC0 - 24 and Cmax ) by 36 % .
The clinical relevance of this increase in concentration is unknown .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that in the presence of concomitant CYP2D6 inhibitors donepezil AUC was increased by approximately 17 % to 20 % in Alzheimer ’ s disease patients taking donepezil 10 mg and 23 mg tablets .
This represented an average effect of weak , moderate , and strong CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Inducers of CYP3A ( e . g . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , dexamethasone , rifampin , and phenobarbital ) could increase the rate of elimination of donepezil .
Formal pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that the metabolism of donepezil is not significantly affected by concurrent administration of digoxin or cimetidine .
An in vitro study showed that donepezil was not a substrate of P - glycoprotein .
Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Drug displacement studies have been performed in vitro between this highly bound drug ( 96 % ) and other drugs such as furosemide , digoxin , and warfarin .
Donepezil at concentrations of 0 . 3 - 10 μg / mL did not affect the binding of furosemide ( 5 μg / mL ) , digoxin ( 2 ng / mL ) , and warfarin ( 3 μg / mL ) to human albumin .
Similarly , the binding of donepezil to human albumin was not affected by furosemide , digoxin , and warfarin .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics Examination of the effect of CYP2D6 genotype in Alzheimer ’ s patients showed differences in clearance values among CYP2D6 genotype subgroups .
When compared to the extensive metabolizers , poor metabolizers had a 31 . 5 % slower clearance and ultra - rapid metabolizers had a 24 % faster clearance .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No evidence of carcinogenic potential was obtained in an 88 - week carcinogenicity study of donepezil conducted in mice at oral doses up to 180 mg / kg / day ( approximately 90 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) , or in a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats at oral doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 30 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Mutagenesis Donepezil was negative in in vitro ( bacterial mutagenicity , mouse lymphoma tk , and chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) assays .
Impairment of Fertility Donepezil had no effect on fertility in rats at oral doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) when administered to males and females prior to and during mating and continuing in females through implantation .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In an acute dose neurotoxicity study in female rats , oral administration of donepezil and memantine in combination resulted in increased incidence , severity , and distribution of neurodegeneration compared with memantine alone .
The no - effect levels of the combination were associated with clinically relevant plasma donepezil and memantine levels .
The relevance of this finding to humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of ADLARITY is based on a relative bioavailability study in healthy subjects comparing ADLARITY transdermal system to ARICEPT tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The clinical studies described below were conducted using donepezil tablets .
14 . 1 Mild to Moderate Alzheimer ’ s Disease The effectiveness of donepezil as a treatment for mild to moderate Alzheimer ’ s disease is demonstrated by the results of two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical investigations of donepezil tablets in patients with Alzheimer ’ s disease ( diagnosed by NINCDS and DSM III - R criteria , Mini - Mental State Examination ≥ 10 and ≤ 26 and Clinical Dementia Rating of 1 or 2 ) .
The mean age of patients participating in these donepezil trials was 73 years with a range of 50 to 94 .
Approximately 62 % of patients were women and 38 % were men .
The racial distribution was white 95 % , black 3 % , and other races 2 % .
The higher dose of 10 mg did not provide a statistically significantly greater clinical benefit than 5 mg .
There is a suggestion , however , based upon order of group mean scores and dose trend analyses of data from these clinical trials , that a daily dose of 10 mg of donepezil might provide additional benefit for some patients .
Accordingly , whether or not to employ a dose of 10 mg is a matter of prescriber and patient preference .
Study Outcome Measures In each study , the effectiveness of treatment with donepezil was evaluated using a dual outcome assessment strategy .
The ability of donepezil to improve cognitive performance was assessed with the cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer ’ s Disease Assessment Scale ( ADAS - cog ) , a multi - item instrument that has been extensively validated in longitudinal cohorts of Alzheimer ’ s disease patients .
The ADAS - cog examines selected aspects of cognitive performance including elements of memory , orientation , attention , reasoning , language , and praxis .
The ADAS - cog scoring range is from 0 to 70 , with higher scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Elderly normal adults may score as low as 0 or 1 , but it is not unusual for non - demented adults to score slightly higher .
The patients recruited as participants in each study had mean scores on the ADAS - cog of approximately 26 points , with a range from 4 to 61 .
Experience based on longitudinal studies of ambulatory patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer ’ s disease suggest that scores on the ADAS - cog increase ( worsen ) by 6 - 12 points per year .
However , smaller changes may be seen in patients with very mild or very advanced disease since the ADAS - cog is not uniformly sensitive to change over the course of the disease .
The annualized rate of decline in the placebo patients participating in donepezil trials was approximately 2 to 4 points per year .
The ability of donepezil to produce an overall clinical effect was assessed using a Clinician ’ s Interview - Based Impression of Change that required the use of caregiver information , the CIBIC - plus .
The CIBIC - plus is not a single instrument and is not a standardized instrument like the ADAS - cog .
Clinical trials for investigational drugs have used a variety of CIBIC formats , each different in terms of depth and structure .
As such , results from a CIBIC - plus reflect clinical experience from the trial or trials in which it was used and cannot be compared directly with the results of CIBIC - plus evaluations from other clinical trials .
The CIBIC - plus used in donepezil trials was a semi - structured instrument that was intended to examine four major areas of patient function : General , Cognitive , Behavioral , and Activities of Daily Living .
It represents the assessment of a skilled clinician based upon his / her observations at an interview with the patient , in combination with information supplied by a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient over the interval rated .
The CIBIC - plus is scored as a seven - point categorical rating , ranging from a score of 1 , indicating “ markedly improved , ” to a score of 4 , indicating “ no change ” to a score of 7 , indicating “ markedly worse . ”
The CIBIC - plus has not been systematically compared directly to assessments not using information from caregivers ( CIBIC ) or other global methods .
Thirty - Week Study In a study of 30 weeks duration , 473 patients were randomized to receive single daily doses of placebo , 5 mg / day or 10 mg / day of donepezil tablets .
The 30 - week study was divided into a 24 ‑ week double - blind active treatment phase followed by a 6 - week single - blind placebo washout period .
The study was designed to compare 5 mg / day or 10 mg / day fixed doses of donepezil tablets to placebo .
However , to reduce the likelihood of cholinergic effects , the 10 mg / day treatment was started following an initial 7 - day treatment with 5 mg / day doses .
Effects on the ADAS - cog Figure 2 illustrates the time course for the change from baseline in ADAS - cog scores for all three dose groups over the 30 weeks of the study .
After 24 weeks of treatment , the mean differences in the ADAS - cog change scores for donepezil treated patients compared to the patients on placebo were 2 . 8 and 3 . 1 points for the 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day treatments , respectively .
These differences were statistically significant .
While the treatment effect size may appear to be slightly greater for the 10 mg / day treatment , there was no statistically significant difference between the two active treatments .
Following 6 weeks of placebo washout , scores on the ADAS - cog for both the donepezil treatment groups were indistinguishable from those patients who had received only placebo for 30 weeks .
This suggests that the beneficial effects of donepezil abate over 6 weeks following discontinuation of treatment and do not represent a change in the underlying disease .
There was no evidence of a rebound effect 6 weeks after abrupt discontinuation of therapy .
Figure 2 .
Time - course of the Change from Baseline in ADAS - cog Score for Patients Completing 24 Weeks of Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 illustrates the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the three treatment groups who had attained the measure of improvement in ADAS - cog score shown on the X - axis .
Three change scores ( 7 - point and 4 - point reductions from baseline or no change in score ) have been identified for illustrative purposes , and the percent of patients in each group achieving that result is shown in the inset table .
The curves demonstrate that both patients assigned to placebo and donepezil have a wide range of responses , but that the active treatment groups are more likely to show greater improvements .
A curve for an effective treatment would be shifted to the left of the curve for placebo , while an ineffective or deleterious treatment would be superimposed upon or shifted to the right of the curve for placebo .
Figure 3 .
Cumulative Percentage of Patients Completing 24 Weeks of Double - blind Treatment with Specified Changes from Baseline ADAS - cog Scores .
The Percentages of Randomized Patients who Completed the Study were : Placebo 80 % , 5 mg / day 85 % , and 10 mg / day 68 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the CIBIC - plus Figure 4 is a histogram of the frequency distribution of CIBIC - plus scores attained by patients assigned to each of the three treatment groups who completed 24 weeks of treatment .
The mean drug - placebo differences for these groups of patients were 0 . 35 points and 0 . 39 points for 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day of donepezil , respectively .
These differences were statistically significant .
There was no statistically significant difference between the two active treatments .
Figure 4 .
Frequency Distribution of CIBIC - plus Scores at Week 24 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fifteen - Week Study In a study of 15 weeks duration , patients were randomized to receive single daily doses of placebo or either 5 mg / day or 10 mg / day of donepezil tablets for 12 weeks , followed by a 3 - week placebo washout period .
As in the 30 - week study , to avoid acute cholinergic effects , the 10 mg / day treatment followed an initial 7 - day treatment with 5 mg / day doses .
Effects on the ADAS - cog Figure 5 illustrates the time course of the change from baseline in ADAS - cog scores for all three dose groups over the 15 weeks of the study .
After 12 weeks of treatment , the differences in mean ADAS - cog change scores for the donepezil treated patients compared to the patients on placebo were 2 . 7 and 3 . 0 points each , for the 5 and 10 mg / day donepezil treatment groups , respectively .
These differences were statistically significant .
The effect size for the 10 mg / day group may appear to be slightly larger than that for 5 mg / day .
However , the differences between active treatments were not statistically significant .
Figure 5 .
Time - course of the Change from Baseline in ADAS - cog Score for Patients Completing the 15 - week Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Following 3 weeks of placebo washout , scores on the ADAS - cog for both the donepezil treatment groups increased , indicating that discontinuation of donepezil resulted in a loss of its treatment effect .
The duration of this placebo washout period was not sufficient to characterize the rate of loss of the treatment effect , but the 30 - week study ( see above ) demonstrated that treatment effects associated with the use of donepezil abate within 6 weeks of treatment discontinuation .
Figure 6 illustrates the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the three treatment groups who attained the measure of improvement in ADAS - cog score shown on the X - axis .
The same three change scores ( 7 - point and 4 - point reductions from baseline or no change in score ) as selected for the 30 - week study have been used for this illustration .
The percentages of patients achieving those results are shown in the inset table .
As observed in the 30 - week study , the curves demonstrate that patients assigned to either placebo or to donepezil have a wide range of responses , but that the donepezil treated patients are more likely to show greater improvements in cognitive performance .
Figure 6 .
Cumulative Percentage of Patients with Specified Changes from Baseline ADAS - cog Scores .
The Percentages of Randomized Patients Within Each Treatment Group Who Completed the Study Were : Placebo 93 % , 5 mg / day 90 % , and 10 mg / day 82 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the CIBIC - plus Figure 7 is a histogram of the frequency distribution of CIBIC - plus scores attained by patients assigned to each of the three treatment groups who completed 12 weeks of treatment .
The differences in mean scores for donepezil treated patients compared to the patients on placebo at Week 12 were 0 . 36 and 0 . 38 points for the 5 mg / day and 10 mg / day treatment groups , respectively .
These differences were statistically significant .
Figure 7 .
Frequency Distribution of CIBIC - plus Scores at Week 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In both studies , patient age , sex , and race were not found to predict the clinical outcome of donepezil treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Moderate to Severe Alzheimer ’ s Disease The effectiveness of donepezil in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ’ s disease was established in studies employing doses of 10 mg / day .
Swedish 6 Month Study ( 10 mg / day ) The effectiveness of donepezil as a treatment for severe Alzheimer ’ s disease is demonstrated by the results of a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical study conducted in Sweden ( 6 - month study ) in patients with probable or possible Alzheimer ’ s disease diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA and DSM - IV criteria , MMSE : range of 1 - 10 .
Two hundred and forty - eight ( 248 ) patients with severe Alzheimer ’ s disease were randomized to donepezil tablets or placebo .
For patients randomized to donepezil , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily for 28 days and then increased to 10 mg once daily .
At the end of the 6 - month treatment period , 90 . 5 % of the donepezil treated patients were receiving the 10 mg / day dose .
The mean age of patients was 84 . 9 years , with a range of 59 to 99 .
Approximately 77 % of patients were women , and 23 % were men .
Almost all patients were Caucasian .
Probable Alzheimer ’ s disease was diagnosed in the majority of the patients ( 83 . 6 % of donepezil treated patients and 84 . 2 % of placebo treated patients ) .
Study Outcome Measures The effectiveness of treatment with donepezil was determined using a dual outcome assessment strategy that evaluated cognitive function using an instrument designed for more impaired patients and overall function through caregiver - rated assessment .
This study showed that patients on donepezil experienced significant improvement on both measures compared to placebo .
The ability of donepezil to improve cognitive performance was assessed with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) .
The SIB , a multi - item instrument , has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB evaluates selective aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of memory , language , orientation , attention , praxis , visuospatial ability , construction , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Daily function was assessed using the Modified Alzheimer ’ s Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory for Severe Alzheimer ’ s Disease ( ADCS - ADL - severe ) .
The ADCS - ADL - severe is derived from the Alzheimer ’ s Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory , which is a comprehensive battery of ADL questions used to measure the functional capabilities of patients .
Each ADL item is rated from the highest level of independent performance to complete loss .
The ADCS - ADL - severe is a subset of 19 items , including ratings of the patient ’ s ability to eat , dress , bathe , use the telephone , get around ( or travel ) , and perform other activities of daily living ; it has been validated for the assessment of patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The ADCS - ADL - severe has a scoring range of 0 to 54 , with the lower scores indicating greater functional impairment .
The investigator performs the inventory by interviewing a caregiver , in this study a nurse staff member , familiar with the functioning of the patient .
Effects on the SIB Figure 8 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 6 months of the study .
At 6 months of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for donepezil treated patients compared to patients on placebo was 5 . 9 points .
Donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
Figure 8 .
Time Course of the Change from Baseline in SIB Score for Patients Completing 6 Months of Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 9 illustrates the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the two treatment groups who attained the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X - axis .
While patients assigned both to donepezil and to placebo have a wide range of responses , the curves show that the donepezil group is more likely to show a greater improvement in cognitive performance .
Figure 9 .
Cumulative Percentage of Patients Completing 6 Months of Double - blind Treatment with Particular Changes from Baseline in SIB Scores [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the ADCS - ADL - severe Figure 10 illustrates the time course for the change from baseline in ADCS - ADL - severe scores for patients in the two treatment groups over the 6 months of the study .
After 6 months of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL - severe change scores for donepezil treated patients compared to patients on placebo was 1 . 8 points .
Donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
Figure 10 .
Time Course of the Change from Baseline in ADCS - ADL - Severe Score for Patients Completing 6 Months of Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 11 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group with specified changes from baseline ADCS - ADL - severe scores .
While both patients assigned to donepezil and placebo have a wide range of responses , the curves demonstrate that the donepezil group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
Figure 11 .
Cumulative Percentage of Patients Completing 6 Months of Double - blind Treatment with Particular Changes from Baseline in ADCS - ADL - Severe Scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Japanese 24 - Week Study ( 10 mg / day ) In a study of 24 weeks duration conducted in Japan , 325 patients with severe Alzheimer ’ s disease were randomized to doses of 5 mg / day or 10 mg / day of donepezil tablets , administered once daily , or placebo .
Patients randomized to treatment with donepezil were to achieve their assigned doses by titration , beginning at 3 mg / day , and extending over a maximum of 6 weeks .
Two hundred and forty - eight ( 248 ) patients completed the study , with similar proportions of patients completing the study in each treatment group .
The primary efficacy measures for this study were the SIB and CIBIC - plus .
At 24 weeks of treatment , statistically significant treatment differences were observed between the 10 mg / day dose of donepezil and placebo on both the SIB and CIBIC - plus .
The 5 mg / day dose of donepezil showed a statistically significant superiority to placebo on the SIB , but not on the CIBIC - plus .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 Adhesion of ADLARITY Transdermal System Based on a clinical study in 85 subjects , each wearing one ADLARITY 5 mg / day on the back , 80 transdermal systems ( 94 % ) exhibited 80 % or greater surface area adhesion at all timepoints evaluated ( every 12 hours ) throughout the 168 - hour wear period .
Based on a clinical study in 85 subjects , each wearing an ADLARITY 10 mg / day for 168 hours on the back for 4 consecutive weeks , 307 of 338 transdermal systems ( 91 % ) exhibited 80 % or greater surface area adhesion at all timepoints evaluated .
No full detachments were seen for any transdermal system applied .
In a separate study , which assessed wear at different application sites ( back , thigh , and buttock ) , at least 85 % of the transdermal systems applied at every site exhibited 80 % or greater surface area adhesion for the duration of wear .
One full detachment on the back was noted in the study .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ADLARITY is supplied in cartons , with each carton containing four transdermal systems that are individually packaged in sealed pouches .
• The ADLARITY 5 mg / day adhesive transdermal system is rectangular in shape , with rounded corners , measuring 8 . 3 cm by 10 . 8 cm , and containing 97 mg of donepezil hydrochloride .
Each transdermal system has a tan colored backing with the ADLARITY ( donepezil transdermal system ) logo and 5 mg / day printed in black on the non - adhesive side .
ADLARITY 5 mg / day is available in a carton of 4 ( NDC 65038 - 055 - 03 ) .
• The ADLARITY 10 mg / day adhesive transdermal system is rectangular in shape , with rounded corners , measuring 10 . 8 cm by 14 . 4 cm , and containing 194 mg of donepezil hydrochloride .
Each transdermal system has a tan colored backing with the ADLARITY ( donepezil transdermal system ) logo and 10 mg / day printed in black on the non - adhesive side .
ADLARITY 10 mg / day is available in a carton of 4 ( NDC 65038 - 056 - 03 ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store ADLARITY in the refrigerator between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Allow the pouch to reach room temperature before opening and removing the new transdermal system for application [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Keep ADLARITY in the individually sealed pouch until use .
Used transdermal systems should be folded with the adhesive surfaces pressed together and discarded in the trash .
Do not flush used transdermal systems down the toilet .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Administration Instructions Inform patients or caregivers of the importance of applying the correct dose on the correct body site .
Instruct patients or caregivers to apply the transdermal system to clean , dry , intact , healthy skin with minimal hair ( sparse , fine hair is okay ) and to rotate the application site in order to minimize skin irritation .
The same exact body location should not be used within 14 days , although another part of the same anatomic site ( e . g . , the back ) may be used in consecutive weeks .
The previous week ’ s transdermal system must be removed before applying a new transdermal system to a different skin location .
Prior to application , allow the pouch to reach room temperature before opening .
ADLARITY should be replaced every 7 days .
Only 1 transdermal system should be worn at a time .
Instruct patients or caregivers to avoid exposing the transdermal system to external heat sources ( excessive sunlight , saunas , solariums , heat pads ) for long periods of time [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Missed Dose Instruct patients who have missed a dose to apply a new transdermal system immediately and then replace the new transdermal system 7 days later at the usual application time to start a new cycle [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Instruct patients to not apply 2 transdermal systems to make up for a missed application .
Inform the patients or caregivers to contact a physician for titration instructions if treatment has been interrupted .
Discarding Used Transdermal Systems Instruct patients or caregivers to fold the transdermal system in half after use and discard it in the trash , out of the reach and sight of children and pets .
Inform patients or caregivers that drug still remains in the transdermal system after 7 - day usage and that used transdermal systems should not be flushed down the toilet .
Instruct patients or caregivers to avoid eye contact and to wash their hands after handling the transdermal system .
In case of accidental contact with the eyes , or if their eyes become red after handling the transdermal system , advise to rinse immediately with plenty of water and to seek medical advice if symptoms do not resolve .
Skin Reactions Inform patients or caregivers about the potential for allergic contact dermatitis reactions to occur .
Instruct patients or caregivers to inform a healthcare provider if site reactions spread beyond the application site of the transdermal system , if there is evidence of an intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) , and / or if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Advise patients and caregivers that ADLARITY may cause nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , vomiting , muscle cramps , fatigue , and decreased appetite [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured and distributed by : Corium , Inc . , Grand Rapids , MI 49512 PATIENT INFORMATION ADLARITY ® ( Ad - lare - it - ee ) ( donepezil transdermal system ) What is ADLARITY ?
• ADLARITY is a prescription medicine used to treat mild , moderate , and severe dementia of the Alzheimer ’ s type .
• It is not known if ADLARITY is safe and effective in children .
Do not use ADLARITY if you : • are allergic to donepezil or to medicines that contain piperidines .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in ADLARITY .
• have had a skin reaction called allergic contact dermatitis to ADLARITY Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you should use the ADLARITY transdermal system .
Before using ADLARITY , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have any heart problems , including problems with irregular , slow , or fast heartbeats .
• have stomach ulcers .
• have problems passing urine .
• have seizures .
• have asthma or other lung problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ADLARITY will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ADLARITY passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
ADLARITY may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how ADLARITY works .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take medicines called nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if any of your medicines are NSAIDs .
Taking NSAIDs and ADLARITY together may make you more likely to get stomach ulcers .
ADLARITY taken with certain medicines used for anesthesia may cause side effects .
Tell your healthcare provider or dentist that you use the ADLARITY transdermal system before you have : • surgery • medical procedures • dental surgery or procedures Know the medicines that you take .
Keep a list of all of your medicines .
Show it to your healthcare provider before you start a new medicine .
How should I use ADLARITY ?
See the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information leaflet for step - by - step instructions on how to apply , remove , and throw away ( dispose of ) ADLARITY .
• Use ADLARITY exactly how your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• ADLARITY is for skin use only .
• Apply 1 ADLARITY transdermal system at a time to your skin 1 time weekly ( every 7 days ) .
• Apply to clean , dry , intact skin with little to no hair .
• If your ADLARITY transdermal system falls off , or if you miss a dose of ADLARITY , apply a new transdermal system right away .
You should remove your transdermal system 7 days later .
• If you stop using ADLARITY , call your healthcare provider for instructions before you start using ADLARITY again .
• In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a live poison help line right away .
What should I avoid while using ADLARITY ?
• Do not touch your eyes after you touch the ADLARITY transdermal system .
In case of accidental contact with your eyes , or if your eyes become red after handling the transdermal system , rinse your eyes right away with water and get medical help if symptoms do not go away .
• Avoid exposure to heat sources , such as excessive sunlight , saunas , sunrooms , or heating pads , for long periods of time .
Too much medicine could be absorbed into your body .
What are the possible side effects of ADLARITY ?
ADLARITY may cause serious side effects , including : • Skin reactions .
Skin reactions that include redness and itching may happen at the application site when using ADLARITY .
Stop using ADLARITY and call your healthcare provider if you get any of these skin reactions and they do not get better within 2 days ( 48 hours ) after the transdermal system is removed : • increased redness or swelling • peeling or blistering of the skin • spreading beyond the application site • Slow heartbeat and fainting .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you feel faint or lightheaded while using ADLARITY .
• More stomach acid .
This increases the chance of ulcers and bleeding .
The risk is higher for some people , such as those who have had ulcers or take NSAIDs .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms : • heartburn or stomach pain that is new or does not go away .
• nausea or vomiting , blood in your vomit , or dark vomit that looks like coffee grounds .
• bowel movements or stools that look like black tar .
• Problems passing urine .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have problems passing urine while using ADLARITY .
• Seizures .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have seizures while using ADLARITY .
• Worsening of lung problems in people with asthma or other lung disease .
Call your healthcare provider if you have new or worsening lung problems .
The most common side effects of donepezil , the medicine in ADLARITY , are : • nausea • diarrhea • not sleeping well • vomiting • muscle cramps • feeling tired • not wanting to eat These are not all of the possible side effects of ADLARITY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ADLARITY ?
• Store ADLARITY in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not store ADLARITY in the freezer .
• Keep ADLARITY in the sealed pouch until ready for use .
Keep ADLARITY and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ADLARITY .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ADLARITY for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ADLARITY to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about ADLARITY that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ADLARITY ?
Active ingredient : donepezil hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : acrylate copolymer , ascorbyl palmitate , crospovidone , glycerol , lauryl lactate , polypropylene membrane , sodium bicarbonate , sorbitan monolaurate , and triethyl citrate .
ADLARITY is a registered trademark of Corium , Inc .
Manufactured and distributed by : Corium , Inc . , Grand Rapids , MI 49512 Rx Only © 2022 Corium , Inc .
For more information , go to www . ADLARITY . com , or call 1 - 800 - 910 - 8432 .
This Patent Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 3 / 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ADLARITY ® ( Ad - lare - it - ee ) ( donepezil transdermal system ) Read this Instructions for Use before you use ADLARITY for the first time and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition and treatment .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist about how to use the ADLARITY transdermal system .
Important information you need to know before using ADLARITY : • Use the ADLARITY transdermal system exactly as your doctor tells you to .
• Wear only 1 transdermal system at a time .
• Each ADLARITY transdermal system should be worn continuously for 7 days .
• The ADLARITY transdermal system should be worn during showers or baths .
• Each ADLARITY transdermal system should be replaced after 7 days .
Choose a convenient time on a specific day of the week that works best for the regular application of the ADLARITY transdermal system , such as every Saturday morning .
• Do not apply a new transdermal system to the same skin area for at least 2 weeks ( 14 days ) after removal to decrease the chance of skin irritation .
For example , a new transdermal system can be placed on the same body location , such as the back , but should not be placed on the same area of the back for at least 2 weeks .
• Remove the old transdermal system before applying the new transdermal system to a different skin site .
You can write down the date and site of application to remind you when to remove and replace the transdermal system .
• Avoid exposure to heat sources such as excessive sunlight , saunas , sunrooms , or heating pads for long periods of time .
Too much medicine could be absorbed into your body .
• Use ADLARITY within 24 hours after removal from the refrigerator .
• Do not apply a cold transdermal system .
Do not use external heat sources , such as a microwave , hair dryer , heating pad or direct sunlight , to warm the transdermal system .
The ADLARITY transdermal system • ADLARITY is a tan rectangular transdermal system that comes in 2 strengths : 5 mg and 10 mg .
• ADLARITY transdermal system is supplied in a carton containing 4 individual transdermal systems of the same strength ( 4 week supply ) .
Each transdermal system is sealed inside a pouch protecting it until you are ready to apply it .
• ADLARITY is applied 1 time weekly ( every 7 days ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to store ADLARITY • Store ADLARITY in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not store ADLARITY in the freezer .
• Keep ADLARITY in the sealed pouch until ready for use .
• Keep ADLARITY and all medicines out of the reach of children .
How to use ADLARITY Step 1 : Where to apply the ADLARITY transdermal system Important : Wear only 1 transdermal system at a time .
• Check the expiration date .
• Wash your hands with soap and water before handling the transdermal system .
• Choose a clean and dry area of skin , where no cream , lotion , or powder has recently been applied .
• Choose skin without cuts or scrapes and hairless or nearly hairless .
If there is hair at the skin site , do not shave as this may increase risk of skin irritation .
Use scissors to clip hair as close to the skin as possible , before applying the transdermal system .
• Apply the transdermal system to the skin in areas shown with grey shading .
The recommended application site is the back .
If self - applying the transdermal system or if the transdermal system is not expected to be removed by the patient before the full 7 days , ADLARITY can be placed on the upper buttocks or upper outer thigh .
• Apply the transdermal system in either a vertical ( short side of the transdermal system at the top and bottom ) or horizontal ( short side of the transdermal system on the left and right ) direction .
If the transdermal system is placed on the buttocks , it should be positioned in a horizontal direction .
• Do not apply the transdermal system to skin that has cream , lotion , or powder on it .
• Do not apply the transdermal system to an area where it can be rubbed off by tight clothing or undergarments .
• Do not apply the transdermal system over skin folds or across the spine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Removing the ADLARITY transdermal system from the pouch • Allow the pouch to reach room temperature before opening and applying .
• Make sure seal is not broken .
• Open the pouch by carefully tearing along the dotted line from the corner .
• Remove the ADLARITY transdermal system from the pouch .
Apply to skin right away .
• Do not cut , damage , or use parts of the transdermal system .
Use the full transdermal system to get required dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Removing Liner 1 from the ADLARITY transdermal system • Hold the transdermal system so the liner side ( blue tinted transparent film ) is facing you .
• Bend the transdermal system at the wavy cut in the middle to separate Liner 1 from Liner 2 .
• Remove Liner 1 .
Keep Liner 2 attached to the transdermal system ( you will remove it in Step 4 ) .
• Avoid touching the sticky ( adhesive ) side of the transdermal system with your fingers as that can keep the transdermal system from staying on for the full 7 days .
Avoid sticking the transdermal system to itself .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Applying the ADLARITY transdermal system and removing Liner 2 • Place the short , sticky ( adhesive ) side of the transdermal system to the application site against the patient ’ s skin .
Slowly peel away blue tinted liner 2 while applying gentle pressure with the fingers of your other hand to smooth the transdermal system in place .
Vertical Application [ MULTIMEDIA ] Horizaontal Application [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Smooth the entire transdermal system with your fingers or palm of your hand to avoid creating folds .
Press down on the transdermal system firmly for 30 seconds to make sure that the edges stick to the skin .
Remove blue tinted liner 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove blue tinted liner 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wash your hands with soap and water after applying the transdermal system .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Removing the ADLARITY transdermal system • Follow the steps below to remove and safely throw away ( dispose of ) a used ADLARITY transdermal system after 7 days .
• Using the thumbs of both hands , slowly and evenly peel off the ADLARITY transdermal system from the top to the bottom .
• Following this step may lower the chance that pieces of the transdermal system will be left on the skin and cause irritation at the application site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Checking the skin for any remaining adhesive squares • Look at the transdermal system application site for any remaining adhesive squares left on the skin .
• If you see any adhesive squares left on the skin , you can use your fingers to remove them and place them on the sticky side of the used transdermal system .
• Mineral oil or baby oil may be used to wipe off any remaining adhesive .
• Do not use alcohol or nail polish remover to remove remaining adhesive .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Disposing of the used ADLARITY transdermal system • Fold the transdermal system in half with the sticky ( adhesive ) side pressed together .
• Throw away ( dispose of ) the used transdermal system in the household trash .
• Do not reuse transdermal systems .
• Do not flush used transdermal systems down the toilet .
• Wash your hands with soap and water after you throw away ( dispose of ) the used transdermal system .
Note : Some medicine stays in the transdermal system after the 7 days of use .
The used transdermal system should be folded together and safely thrown away .
NOTE : If the transdermal system falls off before it is time to change it , do not try to reapply that transdermal system .
Instead , choose a new application site and repeat Step 2 through Step 4 to apply a new transdermal system to the skin .
Replace the new transdermal system 7 days later to start a new 1 week cycle .
For example , if you usually replace the ADLARITY transdermal system on Saturdays , but during one of the weeks the transdermal system falls off on Wednesday , apply a new ADLARITY transdermal system right away and replace it the following Wednesday .
ADLARITY is a trademark of Corium , Inc .
Manufactured and distributed by : Corium , Inc . , Grand Rapids , MI 49512 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration . Approved : 3 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Pouch ( Contains 1 transdermal system ) 5 mg Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration NDC CODE : 65038 - 055 - 01 Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Contains 1 transdermal system Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Carton ( Contains 4 transdermal systems ) 5 mg NDC : 65038 - 055 - 03 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Rx Only Contains 4 transdermal systems Dispense in this sealed carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Sample Pouch ( Contains 1 transdermal system ) 5 mg Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration NDC CODE : 65038 - 055 - 10 Professional Sample : Not for Sale Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Contains 1 transdermal system Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Sample Carton ( Contains 1 transdermal systems ) 5 mg NDC : 65038 - 055 - 04 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Professional Sample : Not for Sale Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Rx Only Contains 1 transdermal system Dispense in this sealed carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Sample Carton ( Contains 10 transdermal systems ) 5 mg NDC : 65038 - 055 - 07 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 5 mg / day Store in refrigerator .
For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Professional Sample : Not for Sale Contains ten sample packs .
Each sample pack contains one transdermal system .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Pouch ( Contains 1 transdermal system ) 10 mg Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration NDC CODE : 65038 - 056 - 01 Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Contains 1 transdermal system Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Carton ( Contains 4 transdermal systems ) 10 mg NDC : 65038 - 056 - 03 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat .
Rx Only Contains 4 transdermal systems Dispense in this sealed carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Sample Pouch ( Contains 1 transdermal system ) 10 mg Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration NDC CODE : 65038 - 056 - 10 Professional Sample : Not for Sale Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Contains 1 transdermal system Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Carton ( Contains 1 transdermal systems ) 10 mg NDC : 65038 - 056 - 04 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Professional Sample : Not for Sale Store in refrigerator .
Avoid applying heat Rx Only Contains 1 transdermal system Dispense in this sealed carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Panel - Carton ( Contains 10 transdermal systems ) 10 mg NDC : 65038 - 056 - 07 Adlarity ® ( donepezil transdermal system ) 10 mg / day Store in refrigerator .
For Transdermal Use Only For Once Weekly Administration Professional Sample : Not for Sale Contains ten sample packs .
Each sample pack contains one transdermal system .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
