Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat , Dimethicone , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Butylene glycol , Cetearyl alcohol , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Dimethiconol , Pentylene glycol , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Tocopheryl acetate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Hibiscus abelmoschus extract , Retinyl palmitate , Simethicone , Hydrolyzed hyaluronic acid , Dipropylene glycol , Hydrolyzed rice protein , Tetrasodium EDTA , Sorbitan laurate , T - butyl alcohol , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Calcium hydroxymethionine , 3 - aminopropane sulfonic acid , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Acetyl dipeptide - 1 cetyl ester , Ceramide 3 , Ceramide 6 11 , Panax ginseng root extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Silica , Sodium benzoate , Phytosphingsine , Cholesterol , Tocopherol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ceramide 1 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) , CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) CI 14700 ( Red 4 ) Description No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Anti - Ageing Skincare System Younger looking face and neck in 2 weeks Face feels firmer , wrinkles appear visibly reduced and skin tone looks more even Neck feels firmer , looks visibly smoother and less crepey No7 Restore and Renew Skincare System contains : No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum 30 ml e1 US Fl . Oz .
No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
Description Multi Action Results Discover No7 ' s Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action skincare range , designed to target the key visible signs of ageing on the face and neck in mature skin .
Whilst laughter lines are a sign of a life well lived , as we age , the exposed skin on both the face and neck becomes more fragile , less firm and has a more uneven texture .
Our skincare sysem works to address these key visible signs of ageing to help deliver a visibly younger looking face and neck in 2 weeks .
Face : Skin feels firmer , wrinkles appear visibly reduced , skin tone looks more even .
Neck : Skin feels firmer , skin looks visibly smoother and less crepey .
Formulated by No7 , leaders in age - defying skincare .
SERUM Powered by our advanced anti - wrinkle , firming and lightening complexes from our clinically proven Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced and Lift and Luminate serums , plus a unique skin fortifying complex of calcium , amino acids and ceramides ; essential nutrition to help your skin look and feel more like young skin again .
After the first application face and neck feel smoother .
After 1 week face and neck look more radiant and feel firmer .
After 2 weeks face and neck look younger , revitalised and lifted .
No7 serums are designed to be used underneath your moisturiser to deliver key benefits directly to the skin .
DAY CREAM Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven serum to target the key visible signs of ageing in mature skin .
With Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 to help defend your skin from the sun ' s UV rays .
Also contains our Double Defence technology , containing anti - oxidants to help boost skin ' s natural defences against environmental stress ; for skin that looks younger now and is protected for the future .
It is the perfect daytime partner to our Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum , they have been designed to be used together .
NIGHT CREAM Supercharged with technology from our clinically proven serum to target the key visible signs of ageing in mature skin .
Our Double Defence technology protects your skin against the effects of daily pollution and boosts skin ' s natural defences , helping it recover overnight .
It is the perfect night - time partner to our Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum , they have been designed to be used together .
For Best Results : After cleansing , smooth No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Serum onto your face and neck .
In the morning , follow with No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Restore and Renew Face and Neck Multi Action Night Cream .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . No7beauty . com Carton image 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton image 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
