[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : Capex ® Shampoo 0 . 01 % is supplied as a shampoo formulation with a 12 mg fluocinolone acetonide capsule which is emptied into the shampoo base by the pharmacist at the time of dispensing .
After mixing , Capex ® Shampoo contains fluocinolone acetonide ( 6α , 9 - Difluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone ) , a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , Capex ® Shampoo mixture is C24H30F2O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinolone acetonide in Capex ® Shampoo has the molecular weight of 452 . 50 .
It is a white crystalline powder that is odorless , stable in light and melts at 270 ° F with decomposition ; soluble in alcohol , acetone and methanol ; slightly soluble in chloroform ; insoluble in water .
Each fluocinolone capsule contains 12 mg of fluocinolone acetonide , 548 mg of dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate USP , and 240 mg of talc USP .
The shampoo base contains aluminum acetate dibasic , benzalkonium chloride solution , boric acid , citric acid anhydrous , cocamido - ether - sulfate complex , cocoamine oxide , lauramide DEA , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , oat flour , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , and fragrances , with D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Blue # 1 as coloring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Like other topical corticosteroids , fluocinolone acetonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin while inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Capex ® Shampoo is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
CLINICAL STUDIES : In vehicle - controlled studies for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , after 14 days of treatment , 84 % of patients on active treatment and 29 % of patients on the drug vehicle had cleared or markedly improved .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Capex ® Shampoo is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp .
This product has not been proven to be effective in other corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Capex ® Shampoo is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticoid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Patients receiving superpotent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticoid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , Capex ® Shampoo should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Capex ® Shampoo should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of contact , wash eyes liberally with water .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated scalp area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Discard contents after two ( 2 ) months .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of Capex ® Shampoo .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women or teratogenic effects from Capex ® Shampoo .
Therefore , Capex ® Shampoo should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Capex ® Shampoo is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children and infants have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at a greater risk of glucocorticoid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches and bilateral papilledema .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria , burning , itching , irritation and hypopigmentation .
OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied Capex ® Shampoo can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The pharmacist must empty the contents of the enclosed capsule into the shampoo base prior to dispensing to the patient .
This product should be shaken well prior to use .
No more than approximately one ( 1 ) ounce of the medicated shampoo should be applied to the scalp area once daily , worked into a lather and allowed to remain on the scalp for approximately 5 minutes .
The hair and scalp should then be rinsed thoroughly with water .
HOW SUPPLIED : Capex ® Shampoo is supplied as a two component package : a capsule which contains the active component fluocinolone acetonide , and a separate package of liquid shampoo .
The pharmacist must mix the content of the capsule into the base at the time of dispensing .
Capex ® Shampoo is dispensed to the patient in a 6 ounce bottle .
Shake well before using .
Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) in tightly closed containers .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada .
P52306 - 3 GALDERMA is a registered trademark .
Revised : December 2015 PATIENT INFORMATION Capex ® ( kap - eks ) Shampoo ( fluocinolone acetonide ) Topical Shampoo , 0 . 01 % Important : Capex Shampoo is for use on the skin only .
Do not get Capex Shampoo in your eyes .
What is Capex Shampoo ?
Capex Shampoo is a prescription medicine used on the scalp to treat a skin condition called seborrheic dermatitis .
It is not known if Capex Shampoo is safe and effective in children and infants .
Who should not use Capex Shampoo ?
Do not use Capex Shampoo if you are allergic to any of its ingredients .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Capex Shampoo .
Before using Capex Shampoo , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a scalp infection .
You may need medicine to treat the scalp infection before you use Capex Shampoo .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Capex shampoo can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Capex Shampoo passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed you baby if you use Capex Shampoo .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
Do not use other products containing a corticosteroid medicine with Capex Shampoo without talking to your doctor first .
How should I use Capex Shampoo ?
• When you receive your Capex Shampoo , it will already be mixed in a bottle by your pharmacist .
• Use Capex Shampoo exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Your doctor should tell you how much Capex Shampoo to use and where to apply it .
• Capex Shampoo is for use on your scalp only ( topical ) .
• Shake the Capex Shampoo bottle well before using .
• Do not apply more than 1 ounce of Capex Shampoo to your scalp , 1 time each day .
• Work Capex Shampoo into a lather .
• Leave Capex Shampoo on your scalp for at least 5 minutes .
• Rinse your hair and scalp well with water .
• Avoid getting Capex Shampoo in your eyes .
If you get Capex Shampoo in your eyes , rinse your eyes well with water .
• Do not bandage or cover your head after using Capex Shampoo unless your doctor tells you to .
• Tell your doctor if you develop irritation where you apply Capex Shampoo , or if your seborrheic dermatitis is not getting better with Capex Shampoo .
What are the possible side effects of Capex Shampoo ?
Capex Shampoo can pass through your skin .
The side effects of corticosteroids medicines used on the skin ( topical ) include : • dry , itchy , and reddened skin • burning or stinging at application site • inflamed hair follicle • acne • thinning of skin • loss of skin color These are not all the possible side effects of Capex Shampoo .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Capex Shampoo ?
• Store Capex Shampoo at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the Capex Shampoo bottle tightly closed .
• Throw away ( discard ) your Capex Shampoo bottle after 2 months , even if there is still medicine left in the bottle .
Keep Capex Shampoo and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Capex Shampoo .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use Capex Shampoo for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Capex Shampoo to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Capex Shampoo that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Capex Shampoo ?
Active ingredient : fluocinolone acetonide Inactive ingredients : aluminum acetate dibasic , benzalkonium chloride solution , boric acid , citric acid anhydrous , cocamido - ether - sulfate complex , cocoamine oxide , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , lauramide DEA , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , oat flour , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , talc , fragrances , D & C Yellow 10 , and FD & C Blue 1 as coloring .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Fort Worth , Texas 76177 , USA GALDERMA is a registered trademark .
Made in Canada P52306 - 3 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 12 / 2015 PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] ATTN PHARMACIST : Empty contents of enclosed capsule into shampoo bottle .
Rx only NDC 0299 - 5500 - 04 Capex ® ( fluocinolone acetonide ) topical shampoo SHAMPOO ( as dispensed ) 0 . 01 % For Topical Use Only Shake Well Before Use Discard Contents After Two Months 4 fl oz GALDERMA ATTN PHARMACIST : Empty contents of enclosed capsule into shampoo bottle .
Usual Dose : Apply no more than approximately one ounce of shampoo on affected area , let stand for 5 minutes , then rinse thoroughly with water .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P52307 - 3 Contains : ( As dispensed ) Fluocinolone Acetonide ( 0 . 01 % ) , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate USP , talc USP , in a shampoo base containing aluminum acetate dibasic , benzalkonium chloride solution , boric acid , citric acid anhydrous , cocamido - ether sulfate complex , cocoamine oxide , lauramide DEA , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , oat flour , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water and fragrance with D & C Yellow No . 10 and FD & C Blue No . 1 as coloring .
Storage : Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Contents : 4 fl oz in 6 oz bottle for convenience of Pharmacist .
For External Use Only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Warning : In case of eye contact rinse eye thoroughly with water .
