100 mg per mL DESCRIPTION : Pyridoxine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a sterile solution of pyridoxine hydrochloride in Water for Injection .
Each mL contains 100 mg pyridoxine hydrochloride and 0 . 5 % chlorobutanol anhydrous ( chloral deriv . )
.
pH adjusted with sodium hydroxide if necessary ( 2 . 0 to 3 . 8 ) .
Pyridoxine hydrochloride is a colorless or white crystal or a white crystalline powder .
One gram dissolves in 5 mL of water .
It is stable in air and is slowly affected by sunlight .
The chemical name is 2 - methyl - 3 - hydroxy - 4 , 5 - bis ( hydroxymethyl ) pyridine hydrochloride .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Natural substances that have vitamin B 6 activity are pyridoxine in plants and pyridoxal or pyridoxamine in animals .
All 3 are converted to pyridoxal phosphate by the enzyme pyridoxal kinase .
The physiologically active forms of vitamin B 6 are pyridoxal phosphate ( codecarboxylase ) and pyridoxamine phosphate .
Riboflavin is required for the conversion of pyridoxine phosphate to pyridoxal phosphate .
Vitamin B 6 acts as a coenzyme in the metabolism of protein , carbohydrate , and fat .
In protein metabolism , it participates in the decarboxylation of amino acids , conversion of tryptophan to niacin or to serotonin ( 5 - hydroxtryptamine ) , deamination , and transamination and transulfuration of amino acids .
In carbohydrate metabolism , it is responsible for the breakdown of glycogen to glucose - 1 - phosphate .
The total adult body pool consists of 16 to 25 mg of pyridoxine .
Its half - life appears to be 15 to 20 days .
Vitamin B 6 is degraded to 4 - pyridoxic acid in the liver .
This metabolite is excreted in the urine .
The need for pyridoxine increases with the amount of protein in the diet .
The tryptophan load test appears to uncover early vitamin B 6 deficiency by detecting xanthinurea .
The average adult minimum daily requirement is about 1 . 25 mg .
The ‘‘ Recommended Dietary Allowance ’’ of the National Academy of Sciences is estimated to be as much as 2 . 2 mg for adults and 2 . 5 mg for pregnant and lactating women .
The requirements are more in persons having certain genetic defects or those being treated with isonicotinic acid hydrazide ( INHJ ) or oral contraceptives .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Pyridoxine Hydrochloride Injection is effective for the treatment of pyridoxine deficiency as seen in the following : Inadequate dietary intake .
Drug - induced deficiency , as from isoniazid ( INH ) or oral contraceptives .
Inborn errors of metabolism , e . g . , vitamin B 6 dependent convulsions or vitamin B 6 responsive anemia .
The parenteral route is indicated when oral administration is not feasible as in anorexia , nausea and vomiting , and preoperative and postoperative conditions .
It is also indicated when gastrointestinal absorption is impaired .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : A history of sensitivity to pyridoxine or to any of the ingredients in Pyridoxine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a contraindication .
WARNINGS : WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS : General Single deficiency , as of pyridoxine alone , is rare .
Multiple vitamin deficiency is to be expected in any inadequate diet .
Patients treated with levodopa should avoid supplemental vitamins that contain more than 5 mg pyridoxine in the daily dose .
Women taking oral contraceptives may exhibit increased pyridoxine requirements .
Drug Interactions Pyridoxine supplements should not be given to patients receiving levodopa , because the action of the latter drug is antagonized by pyridoxine .
However , this vitamin may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category A — The requirement for pyridoxine appears to be increased during pregnancy .
Pyridoxine is sometimes of value in the treatment of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers The need for pyridoxine is increased during lactation .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pyridoxine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Usage in Children Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Paresthesia , somnolence , and low serum folic acid levels have been reported .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Symptoms of dependence have been noted in adults given only 200 mg daily , followed by withdrawal .
OVERDOSAGE : Pyridoxine given to animals in amounts of 3 to 4 g / kg of body weight produces convulsions and death .
In man , a dose of 25 mg / kg of body weight is well tolerated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Pyridoxine Hydrochloride Injection may be administered intramuscularly or intravenously .
In cases of dietary deficiency , the dosage is 10 to 20 mg daily for 3 weeks .
Follow - up treatment is recommended daily for several weeks with an oral therapeutic multivitamin preparation containing 2 to 5 mg pyridoxine .
Poor dietary habits should be corrected , and an adequate , well balanced diet should be prescribed .
The vitamin B 6 dependency syndrome may require a therapeutic dosage of as much as 600 mg a day and a daily intake of 30 mg for life .
In deficiencies due to INH , the dosage is 100 mg daily for 3 weeks followed by a 30 mg maintenance dose daily .
In poisoning caused by ingestion of more than 10 g of INH , an equal amount of pyridoxine should be given — 4 g intravenously followed by 1 g intramuscularly every 30 minutes .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : Pyridoxine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is supplied as : Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each 1801 NDC 63323 - 180 - 01 Unit of 25 100 mg per mL NDC 63323 - 180 - 00 1 mL fill , in a 2 mL multiple dose vial PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Sterile .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 45817 G Revised : September 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Pyridoxine HCl 1 mL Multiple Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 180 - 00 1801 PYRIDOXINE HCl INJECTION , USP 100 mg per mL For IM or IV Use 1 mL Multiple Dose Vial Usual Dosage : See insert .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Pyridoxine HCl 1 mL Multiple Dose Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 180 - 01 1801 PYRIDOXINE HCl INJECTION , USP 100 mg per mL For Intramuscular or Intravenous Use 1 mL Rx only Multiple Dose Vial 25 Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
