Rx only DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Gramicidin Ophthalmic Solution USP is a sterile antimicrobial solution for ophthalmic use .
EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVES : Neomycin Sulfate , ( equivalent to 1 . 75 mg neomycin base ) , Polymyxin B Sulfate equal to 10 , 000 Polymyxin B units , Gramicidin , 0 . 025 mg ; INACTIVES : Sodium Chloride , Alcohol ( 0 . 5 % ) , Poloxamer 188 , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Ammonium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 7 - 6 . 0 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Thimerosal 0 . 001 % .
Neomycin Sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C , which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent of not less than 600 micrograms of neomycin base per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B Sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin Bl and B2 which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Gramicidin ( also called gramicidin D ) is a mixture of three pairs of antibacterial substances ( Gramicidin A , B and C ) produced by the growth of Bacillusbrevis Dubos ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 900 mcg of standard gramicidin per mg .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : A wide range of antibacterial action is provided by the overlapping spectra of neomycin , polymyxin B sulfate , and gramicidin .
Neomycin is bactericidal for many gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
It is an aminoglycoside antibiotic which inhibits protein synthesis by binding with ribosomal RNA and causing misreading of the bacterial genetic code .
Polymyxin B is bactericidal for a variety of gram - negative organisms .
It increases the permeability of the bacterial cell membrane by interacting with the phospholipid components of the membrane .
Gramicidin is bactericidal for a variety of gram - positive organisms .
It increases the permeability of the bacterial cell membrane to inorganic cations by forming a network of channels through the normal lipid bilayer of the membrane .
Microbiology : Neomycin sulfate , polymyxin B sulfate and gramicidin together are considered active against the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella - Enterobacter species , Neisseria species and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Gramicidin Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for the topical treatment of superficial infections of the external eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Such infections encompass conjunctivitis , keratitis and keratoconjunctivitis , blepharitis and blepharoconjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in those persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
This product should never be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye or injected subconjunctivally .
Topical antibiotics , particularly neomycin sulfate , may cause cutaneous sensitization .
A precise incidence of hypersensitivity reactions ( primarily skin rash ) due to topical antibiotics is not known .
The manifestations of sensitization to topical antibiotics are usually itching , reddening and edema of the conjunctiva and eyelid .
A sensitization reaction may manifest simply as a failure to heal .
During long - term use of topical antibiotic products , periodic examination for such signs is advisable , and the patient should be told to discontinue the product if they are observed .
Symptoms usually subside quickly on withdrawing the medication .
Applications of products containing these ingredients should be avoided for the patient thereafter .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use of this product may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate measures should be initiated .
Bacterial resistance to this product may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of topical ophthalmic products in multiple - dose containers which have been inadvertently contaminated by patients , most of whom had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
Allergic cross - reactions may occur which could prevent the use of any or all of the following antibiotics for the treatment of future infections : kanamycin , paromomycin , streptomycin , and possibly gentamicin .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , eyelid , fingers , or any other surface .
The use of this product by more than one person may spread infection .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular products , if handled improperly , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated products ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
If the condition persists or gets worse , or if a rash or other allergic reaction develops , the patient should be advised to stop use and consult a physician .
Do not use this product if you are allergic to any of the listed ingredients .
Keep tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or gramicidin .
Treatment of cultured lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentration ( 80 mcg / mL ) tested .
However , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Adequate animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with neomycin , polymyxin B or gramicidin .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti - infective components of this product .
The exact incidence is not known .
Reactions occurring most often are allergic reactions including itching , swelling , and conjunctival erythema ( see WARNINGS ) .
More serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported rarely .
Local irritation on instillation has also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Instill one or two drops into the affected eye every 4 hours for 7 to 10 days .
In severe infections , dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED " Protective Seal " WITH YELLOW [ MULTIMEDIA ] IS NOT INTACT .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Gramicidin Ophthalmic Solution USP is supplied in a plastic squeeze bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following size : 10 mL – NDC 54868 - 6253 - 0 Storage : Store between 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised August 2007 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 54868 - 6253 - 0 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Gramicidin Ophthalmic Solution USP ( Sterile ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
