Active Ingredient ( s ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride 168 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Use ( s ) • Relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • Prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or any other acid reducers .
Do not use • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • unexplained weight loss • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days Pregnancy / Breastfeeding If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and Children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • do not chew tablet • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other Information • do not use if bottle seal is open or torn • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from light • this product is sodium and sugar free Inactive Ingredients carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , titanium dioxide , vanillin , red and yellow ferric oxide .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 ( Monday to Friday 8 : 30 a . m . – 5 : 00 p . m . Eastern Standard Time ) Consumer Information What you should know about MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg / Acid Reducer ( Please read all this information before taking MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg .
Save this leaflet for future reference ) What are MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ?
MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg contains 150 mg of ranitidine ( as ranitidine hydrochloride , 168 mg ) , a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide .
What symptoms do MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg treat and prevent ?
MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg relieves and prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach .
Certain foods or beverages , and even lying down to sleep , can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach .
It is normal for the stomach to produce acid , especially after consuming food or beverages .
However , acid in the wrong place , such as the esophagus , or too much acid , can cause burning pain and discomfort .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Excellent Safety Record • The ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg , ranitidine , has been prescribed by doctors for years to treat millions of patients safely and effectively .
The active ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg has been taken safely with many frequently prescribed medications .
• MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg are sodium and sugar free .
How should I take MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg ?
• To relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
• To prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn .
This medicine can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) .
MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor .
How do MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg work ?
MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg reduces the production of stomach acid .
This is what makes MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP , 150 mg different from antacids , which neutralize the acid already in your stomach .
Antacids do not reduce the production of acid .
Tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night , or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty , and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , even some fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • If you are overweight , lose weight • If you smoke , quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach • Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers When should I see a doctor ?
• Do not use • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• Ask a doctor before use if you have • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • unexplained weight loss • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
• Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 ( Monday to Friday , 8 : 30 am – 5 : 00 pm Eastern Standard Time ) Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , FL Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel OTC Medicine Maximum Strength Rantidine Tablets USP , 150 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
