WARNING : RISKS WITH INADVERTENT INTRATHECAL ADMINISTRATION FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
Inadvertent intrathecal administration may cause death , convulsions / seizures , cerebral hemorrhage , coma , paralysis , arachnoiditis , acute renal failure , cardiac arrest , rhabdomyolysis , hyperthermia , and brain edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : RISKS WITH INADVERTANT INTRATHECAL ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
Inadvertent intrathecal administration may cause death , convulsions / seizures , cerebral hemorrhage , coma , paralysis , arachnoiditis , acute renal failure , cardiac arrest , rhabdomyolysis , hyperthermia , and brain edema ( 5 . 1 ) .
Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) 2 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package is indicated for • Computed tomographic ( CT ) imaging of the head and body by intravenous administration in : • adults ( 300 and 350 mg iodine / mL ) • pediatric patients ( 300 mg iodine / mL ) For use only with an automated contrast injection system , contrast management system , or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package is a radiographic contrast agent indicated for intravenous computed tomographic ( CT ) imaging of the head and body in adult and pediatric patients .
( 2 . 1 ) For use only with an automated contrast injection system , contrast management system , or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The concentration and volume required will depend on the equipment and imaging technique used .
See full prescribing information for full dosing information .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • OMNIPAQUE is for intravenous use only [ see Boxed Warning , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • OMNIPAQUE may be administered at body ( 37 ° C ) or room temperature .
Do not warm the container beyond 37 ° C . • Inspect OMNIPAQUE for particulate matter or discoloration before administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer if OMNIPAQUE contains particulate matter or is discolored .
• Do not mix OMNIPAQUE with , or inject in intravenous lines containing , other drugs or total nutritional admixtures .
• Use sterile technique for all handling and administration of OMNIPAQUE .
• Hydrate patients before and after OMNIPAQUE administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Avoid extravasation when injecting OMNIPAQUE , especially in patients with severe arterial or venous disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage • The dosing recommendations for OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package are summarized below for adult ( Table 1 ) and pediatric ( Table 2 ) patients .
• The maximum recommended total dose of iodine for adults is 60 grams .
• Use the lowest dose necessary to obtain adequate visualization .
• Individualize the volume , strength , and rate of administration of OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
Consider factors such as age , body weight , vessel size , blood flow rate within the vessel , anticipated pathology , degree and extent of opacification required , structures or area to be examined , disease processes affecting the patient , and equipment and technique to be employed .
Table 1 Adult Dosing Recommendations : Intravenous Administration STUDY TYPE 300 mg iodine / mL 350 mg iodine / mL CT Imaging – Head 70 to 150 mL ( 21 to 45 grams iodine ) 80 mL ( 28 grams iodine ) CT Imaging – Body 50 to 200 mL ( 15 to 60 grams iodine ) 60 to 100 mL ( 21 to 35 grams iodine ) Table 2 Pediatric Patients [ 1 ] Dosing Recommendations : Intravenous Administration STUDY TYPE 300 mg iodine / mL Dosage for infants and children should be administered in proportion to age and body weight .
CT Imaging – Head and Body 1 to 2 mL / kg Maximum single dose = 3 mL / kg 35 grams iodine ( 116 mL ) [ 1 ] The concentration and volume required will depend on the equipment and imaging technique used .
2 . 3 Imaging Bulk Package Preparation Instructions • OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package is for use only with an automated contrast injection system , contrast management system , or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with this contrast agent in this Imaging Bulk Package .
See device labeling for information on devices indicated for use with this Imaging Bulk Package and techniques to help assure safe use .
• Use OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection only in a room designated for radiological procedures that involve intravascular administration of a contrast agent .
• Utilize sterile technique for penetrating the container closure of the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package and transferring OMNIPAQUE solution .
The container closure may be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile component of the automated contrast injection system , contrast management system , or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with this Imaging Bulk Package .
Do not use if tamper - evident ring is broken or missing .
• If 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP is used , prepare the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP sterile port in accordance with the dosage and administration section of its approved prescribing information .
The intravenous administration port of the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP container may be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile component of the contrast management system approved for use with the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
• Affix the saline tag provided with the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package on the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP container .
• Once the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection are punctured do not remove them from the work area during the entire period of use .
Maintain the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package bottle in an inverted position such that container contents are in continuous contact with the dispensing set .
• After the container closure is punctured , if the integrity of the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package , the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , and the delivery system cannot be assured through direct continuous supervision , discard the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , and all associated disposables for the iodinated contrast media transfer set .
• A maximum time of 8 hours from initial puncture is permitted to complete fluid transfer .
Discard any unused OMNIPAQUE solution and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride 8 hours after initial puncture of the OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : Non - ionic , sterile , pyrogen - free , colorless to pale yellow solution in an imaging bulk package in the following strengths : • 300 mg of organically bound iodine per mL ( 647 mg of iohexol / mL ) • 350 mg of organically bound iodine per mL ( 755 mg of iohexol / mL ) Imaging Bulk Package is available in the following format : 500 mL polymer bottle ( PLUSPAK ™ ) Injection : 500 mL Imaging Bulk Package available in two strengths : • 300 mg of iodine per mL ( 647 mg of iohexol / mL ) and • 350 mg of iodine per mL ( 755 mg of iohexol / mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • For intravenous use only .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Life - threatening or fatal reactions can occur .
Always have emergency equipment and trained personnel available .
( 5 . 2 ) • Contrast - Induced Acute Kidney Injury : Acute injury including renal failure can occur .
Minimize dose and maintain adequate hydration to minimize risk .
( 5 . 3 ) • Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions : Hemodynamic disturbances including shock and cardiac arrest may occur during or after administration .
( 5 . 4 ) • Thyroid Dysfunction in Pediatric Patients 0 to 3 Years of Age : Monitor these patients for thyroid function abnormalities and treat as clinically needed .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Risks with Inadvertent Intrathecal Administration OMNIPAQUE is for intravenous use only [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Inadvertent Intrathecal administration can cause death , convulsions / seizures , cerebral hemorrhage , coma , paralysis , arachnoiditis , acute renal failure , cardiac arrest , rhabdomyolysis , hyperthermia , and brain edema .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions OMNIPAQUE , can cause life - threatening or fatal hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis .
Manifestations include respiratory arrest , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , angioedema , and shock .
Most severe reactions develop shortly after the start of the injection ( within 3 minutes ) , but reactions can occur up to hours later .
There is an increased risk in patients with a history of a previous reaction to contrast agent , and known allergies ( i . e . , bronchial asthma , drug , or food allergies ) or other hypersensitivities .
Premedication with antihistamines or corticosteroids does not prevent serious life - threatening reactions , but may reduce both their incidence and severity .
Obtain a history of allergy , hypersensitivity , or hypersensitivity reactions to iodinated contrast agents and always have emergency resuscitation equipment and trained personnel available prior to OMNIPAQUE administration .
Monitor all patients for hypersensitivity reactions .
5 . 3 Contrast - Induced Acute Kidney Injury Acute kidney injury , including renal failure , may occur after OMNIPAQUE administration .
Risk factors include : pre - existing renal impairment , dehydration , diabetes mellitus , congestive heart failure , advanced vascular disease , elderly age , concomitant use of nephrotoxic or diuretic medications , multiple myeloma / paraproteinaceous diseases , repetitive and / or large doses of an iodinated contrast agent .
Use the lowest necessary dose of OMNIPAQUE in patients with renal impairment .
Adequately hydrate patients prior to and following OMNIPAQUE administration .
Do not use laxatives , diuretics , or preparatory dehydration prior to OMNIPAQUE administration .
5 . 4 Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions Life - threatening or fatal cardiovascular reactions including hypotension , shock , cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of OMNIPAQUE .
Based upon clinical literature , reported deaths from the administration of iodinated contrast agents range from 6 . 6 per million ( 0 . 00066 % ) to 1 per 10 , 000 ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later ; the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor .
OMNIPAQUE has the potential to transiently increase in the circulatory osmotic load in patients with congestive heart failure .
Use the lowest necessary dose of OMNIPAQUE in patients with congestive heart failure and observe these patients for several hours following the procedure to detect delayed hemodynamic disturbances .
Monitor all patients for severe cardiovascular reactions always have emergency resuscitation equipment and trained personnel available .
5 . 5 Extravasation and Injection Site Reactions Extravasation of intravenously administered OMNIPAQUE may cause tissue necrosis and / or compartment syndrome , particularly in patients with severe arterial or venous disease .
Ensure intravenous placement of catheters prior to injection .
Monitor patients for extravasation and advise patients to seek medical care for progression of symptoms .
5 . 6 Thyroid Storm in Patients with Hyperthyroidism Thyroid storm has occurred after the intravascular use of iodinated contrast agents in patients with hyperthyroidism , or with an autonomously functioning thyroid nodule .
Evaluate the risk in such patients before use of OMNIPAQUE .
5 . 7 Thyroid Dysfunction in Pediatric Patients 0 to 3 Years of Age Thyroid dysfunction characterized by hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression has been reported after both single exposure and multiple exposures to iodinated contrast media .
Among patients 0 to 3 years of age exposed to iodinated contrast media , thyroid dysfunction has been reported in 1 % to 15 % depending on the age of the patient and the dose of the iodinated contrast agent .
Younger age , very low birth weight , prematurity , and the presence of other conditions , such as , admission to neonatal or pediatric intensive care units , and cardiac conditions are associated with an increased risk .
Pediatric patients with cardiac conditions may be at the greatest risk given that they often require high doses of contrast during invasive cardiac procedures , such as catheterization and computed tomography ( CT ) .
Pediatric patients 0 to 3 years of age warrant closer monitoring because an underactive thyroid during early life may be harmful for motor , hearing , and cognitive development and may require transient T4 replacement therapy .
Evaluate thyroid function in all pediatric patients 0 to 3 years of age within 3 weeks following exposure to iodinated contrast media , especially in term and preterm neonates .
If thyroid dysfunction is detected , treat and monitor thyroid function as clinically needed .
5 . 8 Hypertensive Crisis in Patients with Pheochromocytoma Hypertensive crisis has occurred after the use of iodinated contrast agents in patients with pheochromocytoma .
Monitor patients when administering OMNIPAQUE if pheochromocytoma or catecholamine - secreting paragangliomas are suspected .
Inject the minimum amount of contrast necessary , assess the blood pressure throughout the procedure , and have measures for treatment of a hypertensive crisis readily available .
5 . 9 Sickle Cell Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell Disease Iodinated contrast agents when administered intravascularly may promote sickling in individuals who are homozygous for sickle cell disease .
Hydrate patients prior to and following OMNIPAQUE administration and use OMNIPAQUE only if the necessary imaging information cannot be obtained with alternative imaging modalities .
5 . 10 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) may develop from 1 hour to several weeks after intravascular contrast agent administration .
These reactions include Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( SJS / TEN ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) .
Reaction severity may increase and time to onset may decrease with repeat administration of contrast agents ; prophylactic medications may not prevent or mitigate severe cutaneous adverse reactions .
Avoid administering OMNIPAQUE to patients with a history of a severe cutaneous adverse reaction to OMNIPAQUE .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Risks Associated with Inadvertent Intrathecal Administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Contrast - Induced Kidney Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Thyroid Dysfunction in Pediatric Patients 0 to 3 Years of Age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions in adult patients : ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) pain , vision abnormalities ( including blurred vision and photomas ) , headache , taste perversion , arrhythmias including premature ventricular contractions ( PVCs ) and premature atrial contractions ( PACs ) , angina / chest pain , nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GE Healthcare at 1 - 800 - 654 - 0118 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adults : The following Adverse Reactions are listed in decreasing frequency within each subgroup .
Cardiovascular System : arrhythmias including premature ventricular contractions ( PVCs ) and premature atrial contractions ( PACs ) , angina / chest pain , hypotension , cardiac failure , asystole , bradycardia , tachycardia , and vasovagal reaction Nervous System : pain , vision abnormalities ( including blurred vision and photomas ) , headache , taste perversion , vertigo , dizziness , lightheadedness , anxiety , fever , motor and speech dysfunction , convulsion , paresthesia , somnolence , stiff neck , hemiparesis , syncope , shivering , transient ischemic attack , cerebral infarction , and nystagmus .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , rhinitis , coughing , and laryngitis Gastrointestinal System : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia , cramp , and dry mouth Skin and Appendages : urticaria , purpura , abscess , and pruritus Pediatric Patients : In controlled clinical trials involving pediatric patients for CT head imaging , adverse reactions following the use of OMNIPAQUE ( 300 mg iodine / mL ) were similar in quality and frequency to those seen with adults .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following additional reactions have been identified during post - approval intravascular use of OMNIPAQUE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to exposure .
Hemodynamic Reactions : vein cramp and thrombophlebitis following intravenous injection Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : neutropenia Cardiovascular Disorders : cardiac arrest , shock , peripheral vasodilatation hypertension , myocardial infarction , spasm of coronary arteries , reflex tachycardia , cyanosis , pallor , flushing Eye Disorders : transient visual impairment including cortical blindness , eyelid edema , conjunctival symptoms , lacrimation Endocrine Reactions : hyperthyroidism , hypothyroidism Gastrointestinal Disorders : abdominal pain , pancreatitis aggravated , salivary gland enlargement General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : chills , pyrexia , pain and discomfort , weakness , administration site conditions including extravasation , feeling hot Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic or anaphylactoid shock including life - threatening or fatal anaphylaxis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : back pain Nervous System Disorders : coma , disturbance in consciousness , transient contrast - induced encephalopathy caused by extravasation of contrast media ( including amnesia , hallucination , paralysis , paresis , speech disorder , aphasia , dysarthria ) , restlessness , tremors , hypoesthesia Psychiatric Disorders : confusional state , agitation Renal Disorders : acute kidney injury , nephropathy toxic , transient proteinuria , oliguria or anuria , increased serum creatinine Respiratory ; Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders : respiratory arrest , pulmonary or laryngeal edema , bronchospasm , sneezing , throat irritation , throat tightness , laryngeal edema , pharyngeal edema , asthmatic attack Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Reactions range from mild ( e . g . pleomorphic rashes , drug eruption , erythema , pruritus , urticaria and skin discoloration , hyperhidrosis , angioedema , localized areas of edema ) to severe : [ e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( SJS / TEN ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drug - Drug Interactions Metformin In patients with renal impairment , metformin can cause lactic acidosis .
Iodinated contrast agents appear to increase the risk of metformin - induced lactic acidosis , possibly as a result of worsening renal function .
Stop metformin at the time of , or prior to , OMNIPAQUE administration in patients with an estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate ( eGFR ) between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and reinstitute metformin only after renal function is stable .
Radioactive Iodine Administration of iodinated contrast agents may interfere with thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine ( I - 131 and I - 123 ) and decrease therapeutic and diagnostic efficacy in patients with carcinoma of the thyroid .
The decrease in efficacy lasts for 6 to 8 weeks .
Beta - adrenergic Blocking Agents The use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents lowers the threshold for and increases the severity of contrast reactions and reduces the responsiveness of treatment of hypersensitivity reactions with epinephrine .
Because of the risk of hypersensitivity reactions , use caution when administering OMNIPAQUE to patients taking beta - blockers .
7 . 2 Drug Laboratory Test Interactions Effect on Thyroid Tests If iodine - containing isotopes are to be administered for the diagnosis of thyroid disease , the iodine - binding capacity of thyroid tissue may be reduced for up to 2 weeks after contrast agent administration .
Thyroid function tests which do not depend on iodine estimation , e . g . , T3 resin uptake or direct thyroxine assays , are not affected .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : A lactating woman may pump and discard breast milk for 10 hours after OMNIPAQUE administration .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Postmarketing data with OMNIPAQUE use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Iohexol crosses the placenta and reaches fetal tissues in small amounts ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed following intravenous iohexol administration to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 0 . 4 ( rat ) and 0 . 5 ( rabbit ) times the maximum recommended human intravenous dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Literature reports show that iohexol crosses the placenta and is visualized in the digestive tract of exposed infants after birth .
Animal Data Reproduction studies were performed in rats and rabbits with intravenous administration of iohexol at the following dose levels : 1 . 0 , 2 . 0 , 4 . 0 g iodine / kg in rats , in 3 groups of 25 dams once daily during days 6 through 15 of pregnancy ; 0 . 3 , 1 . 0 , 2 . 5 g iodine / kg in rabbits , in 3 groups of 18 doses once a day during days 6 through 18 of pregnancy .
Iohexol was not embryotoxic or teratogenic in either species at the dose levels tested .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The literature reports that breast feeding after iohexol administration to the mother would result in the infant receiving an oral dose of approximately 0 . 7 % of the maternal intravenous dose .
There is no information on the effects of the drug on milk production .
Iodinated contrast agents are excreted unchanged in human milk in very low amounts with poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract of a breastfed infant .
Exposure to iohexol to a breastfed infant can be minimized by temporary discontinuation of breastfeeding ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for OMNIPAQUE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from OMNIPAQUE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Interruption of breastfeeding after exposure to iodinated contrast agents is not necessary because the potential exposure of the breastfed infant to iodine is small .
However , a lactating woman may consider interrupting breastfeeding and pumping and discarding breast milk for 10 hours ( approximately 5 elimination half - lives ) after OMNIPAQUE administration to minimize drug exposure to a breastfed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of OMNIPAQUE 300 mg iodine / mL have been established in pediatric patients birth to 17 years of age for CT imaging of the head and body .
Use of OMNIPAQUE 300 mg iodine / mL is supported by controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients undergoing head CT and evidence of effectiveness from well - controlled studies of OMNIPAQUE in adults for head and body CT .
The safety and efficacy of OMNIPAQUE 350 mg iodine / mL have not been established in pediatric patients birth to 17 years of age for CT imaging of the head and body .
In general , the frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric patients was similar to that seen in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Pediatric patients at higher risk of experiencing adverse events during contrast agent administration may include those having asthma , sensitivity to medication and / or allergens , congestive heart failure , a serum creatinine greater than 1 . 5 mg / dL or those less than 12 months of age .
Thyroid function tests indicative of thyroid dysfunction , characterized by hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been reported following iodinated contrast media administration in pediatric patients , including term and preterm neonates .
Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism .
Monitor pediatric patients 0 to 3 years of age closely , particularly those with one or more potential risk factors , for thyroid dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of OMNIPAQUE in computed tomography , 52 / 299 ( 17 % ) of patients were 70 years and older .
No overall differences in safety were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE The adverse reactions to overdosage are life - threatening and affect mainly the pulmonary and cardiovascular systems .
Treatment of an overdosage is directed toward the support of all vital functions , and prompt institution of symptomatic therapy .
Iohexol displays a low affinity for serum or plasma proteins and is poorly bound to serum albumin and , therefore , can be dialyzed .
11 DESCRIPTION 11 . 1 Chemical Characteristics OMNIPAQUE ( iohexol ) is a nonionic , radiographic contrast agent for intravenous use .
OMNIPAQUE is provided as a sterile , pyrogen - free , colorless to pale - yellow solution .
The chemical name of iohexol is Bis ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) - 5 - [ N - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) - acetamido ] - 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodoisophthalamide with a molecular weight of 821 . 14 ( iodine content 46 . 36 % ) .
Iohexol has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • OMNIPAQUE 300 mg iodine / mL ( 647 mg of iohexol / mL ) : Each mL contains 300 mg organically bound iodine , 1 . 21 mg tromethamine , 0 . 1 mg edetate calcium disodium • OMNIPAQUE 350 mg iodine / mL ( 755 mg of iohexol / mL ) : Each mL contains 350 mg organically bound iodine , 1 . 21 mg tromethamine , 0 . 1 mg edetate calcium disodium The pH is adjusted between 6 . 8 and 7 . 7 with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
All solutions are sterile and contain no preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 . 2 Physical Characteristics Table 3 summarizes the physical properties of the two concentrations of OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
TABLE 3 Concentration ( mg iodine / mL ) Osmolality [ 1 ] ( mOsm / kg water ) Absolute Viscosity ( cp ) Specific Gravity 20 ° C 37 ° C 37 ° C 300 672 11 . 8 6 . 3 1 . 349 350 844 20 . 4 10 . 4 1 . 406 [ 1 ] By vapor - pressure osmometry .
OMNIPAQUE 300 mg iodine / mL and OMNIPAQUE 350 mg iodine / mL have osmolalities from approximately 2 . 2 to 3 times those of plasma ( 285 mOsm / kg water ) or cerebrospinal fluid ( 301 mOsm / kg water ) and are hypertonic under conditions of use .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Intravascular injection of iohexol opacifies vessels in the path of flow through attenuation of X - rays permitting visualization of the internal structures .
Iohexol diffuses from the vascular into the extravascular space .
Vessels feeding tumors are less of a barrier to iohexol diffusion than are normal vessels , resulting in increased accumulation in the extravascular space around tumors and thus contrast enhancement .
However , iohexol does not accumulate in normal brain tissue due to the presence of the intact blood - brain barrier .
A disruption in the blood - brain barrier allows for the accumulation of contrast agent within the interstitial space in the region of disruption .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following administration of OMNIPAQUE , the degree of contrast enhancement is directly related to the iodine content in an administered dose ; peak iodine blood concentrations occur immediately following rapid intravenous injection .
The time to maximum contrast enhancement can vary , depending on the organ , from the time that peak blood iodine concentrations are reached to one hour after intravenous bolus administration .
When a delay between peak blood iodine concentrations and peak contrast is present , it suggests that radiographic contrast enhancement is at least in part dependent on the accumulation of iodine containing agent within the lesion and outside the blood pool .
Renal accumulation is sufficiently rapid that the period of maximal opacification of the renal collecting system may begin as early as 1 minute after intravenous injection .
Urograms become apparent in about 1 to 3 minutes with optimal contrast occurring between 5 to 15 minutes .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following the intravenous administration of iohexol ( between 500 mg iodine / kg to 1500 mg iodine / kg ) to 16 adult human subjects , apparent first - order terminal elimination half - life was 12 . 6 hrs and total body clearance was 131 ( 98 to 165 ) mL / min .
Clearance does not appear to be dose dependent .
Distribution In 16 adult subjects ( receiving between 500 mg iodine / kg to 1500 mg iodine / kg intravenous iohexol ) the volume of distribution was 165 ( 108 to 219 ) mL / kg .
Elimination Metabolism No significant metabolism , deiodination or biotransformation occurs .
Excretion Following intravascular injection , iohexol is excreted unchanged by glomerular filtration .
90 % or more of the injected iohexol dose is excreted within the first 24 hours , with the peak urine concentrations occurring in the first hour after administration .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment , greater plasma iohexol exposure may be anticipated due to slowed elimination of iohexol .
In these patients , as well as in infants with immature kidneys , fecal excretion of iohexol may occur .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed with iohexol to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Iohexol was not genotoxic by the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma TK locus forward mutation assay , and a mouse micronucleus assay .
Iohexol did not impair the fertility of male or female rats when repeatedly administered at intravenous dosages up to 4 g iodine / kg .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Intravenous Administration Studies OMNIPAQUE Clinical Studies for CT The safety and efficacy of intravenously administered OMNIPAQUE for CT of the head and body were evaluated in six clinical studies ( Table 4 ) .
Each study also used an ionic high - osmolar iodinated contrast agent as a comparator ( Table 4 ) .
Patients were randomized to administration of either OMNIPAQUE or the comparator .
OMNIPAQUE patients had a mean age of 53 years ( range 16 to 85 ) , were 44 % women , had a mean weight of 67 kg ( range 36 to 134 ) , and were administered a mean of 572 mg iodine / kg ( range 176 to 1250 ) ; comparator patients had a mean age of 51 years ( range 14 to 80 ) , were 43 % women , had a mean weight of 70 kg ( range 40 to 136 ) , and were administered a mean of 484 mg iodine / kg ( range 135 to 1500 ) .
In three studies , efficacy was determined from investigator ratings of quality of contrast enhancement ( none , poor , good , or excellent ; only scans rated as good or excellent were considered diagnostic ) ; in the remaining three studies , efficacy was assessed quantitatively through X - ray attenuation , measured pre - contrast and at various time points post - contrast .
The percentage of scans rated as good or excellent was 100 % for both OMNIPAQUE and the comparator in each of the two studies , and 79 % for OMNIPAQUE and 74 % for the comparator in the third study .
In the studies that measured X - ray attenuation , there were no clinically significant differences between OMNIPAQUE and the comparator regarding contrast over time or time to maximal attenuation .
Overall , the incidence of discomfort ( heat , pain , cold , tingling , pressure , chest heaviness , or cramp ) was lower in the patients receiving OMNIPAQUE , with 115 ( 38 % ) of 300 patients receiving OMNIPAQUE vs . 177 ( 60 % ) of 295 comparator patients reporting discomfort ionic media ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Similarly , fewer patients receiving OMNIPAQUE than comparator patients reported adverse events ( 7 % versus 19 % , respectively , p < 0 . 001 ) .
Table 4 Study Indication OMNIPAQUE ( mg iodine / mL ) No .
of Patients Receiving OMNIPAQUE Comparator ( mg iodine / mL ) Patients Receiving Comparator 1 Intracranial 300 26 Diatrizoate ( 282 ) 23 2 300 16 Iothalamate ( 282 ) 15 3 350 30 Metrizoate ( 350 ) 30 4 240 100 Diatrizoate ( 168 ) 100 5 Abdominal 350 28 Metrizoate ( 350 ) 27 6 300 100 Metrizoate ( 280 ) 100 TOTAL 300 295 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied OMNIPAQUE injection is provided as a sterile , pyrogen - free , preservative free , colorless - to - pale yellow solution available in two strengths in an Imaging Bulk Package .
It is supplied in the following configurations : OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package ( iohexol ) Injection 300 mg iodine / mL : 500 mL in + PLUSPAK ™ ( polymer bottle ) , boxes of 10 Imaging Bulk Packages ( NDC 0407 - 1413 - 72 ) OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package ( iohexol ) Injection 350 mg iodine / mL : 500 mL in + PLUSPAK ™ ( polymer bottle ) , boxes of 10 Imaging Bulk Packages ( NDC 0407 - 1414 - 72 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Protect OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package from exposure to sunlight .
Store OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package may be stored in a contrast media warmer for up to one month at 37 ° C ( 98 . 6 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Discard any product that is inadvertently frozen , as freezing may compromise the closure integrity of the immediate container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise the patient concerning the risk of hypersensitivity reactions that can occur both during and after OMNIPAQUE administration .
Advise the patient to report any signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions during the procedure and to seek immediate medical attention for any signs or symptoms experienced after discharge [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Advise patients to inform their physician if they develop a rash after receiving OMNIPAQUE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Contrast - Induced Acute Kidney Injury Advise the patient concerning appropriate hydration to decrease the risk of contrast - induced acute kidney injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Extravasation If extravasation occurs during injection , advise patients to seek medical care for progression of symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a lactating woman that interruption of breastfeeding is not necessary , however , to avoid any exposure a lactating woman may consider pumping and discarding breast milk for 10 hours after OMNIPAQUE administration [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Thyroid Dysfunction Advise parents / caregivers about the risk of developing thyroid dysfunction after OMNIPAQUE administration .
Advise parents / caregivers about when to seek medical care for their child to monitor for thyroid function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Distributed by GE Healthcare Inc . , Marlborough , MA 01752 U . S . A . Product of Norwegian Origin .
OMNIPAQUE is a trademark of GE Healthcare or one of its subsidiaries .
GE and the GE Monogram are trademarks of General Electric Company .
© 2022 General Electric Company - All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 300 mg Bottle Box Label GE Healthcare Y - 538 I Contains 10 x 500 mL Bottles NDC 0407 - 1413 - 72 OMNIPAQUE ™ ( iohexol ) Injection 300 mg Iodine / mL IMAGING BULK PACKAGE For Intravenous Use Only For use only with an automated contrast injection system , contrast management system or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
Sterile Aqueous Solution See drug and device labeling for information on devices cleared for use with this Imaging Bulk Package Each 1 mL contains 647 . 1 mg of iohexol ( 300 mg organically bound iodine ) , 1 . 21 mg tromethamine , and 0 . 1 mg edetate calcium disodium .
The pH is adjusted between 6 . 8 and 7 . 7 with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
No preservative added .
Not for Intrathecal Use .
+ PLUSPAK ™ ( polymer bottle ) Provided the container is held under the labeled storage conditions the maximum use time is 8 hours after initial entry .
Discard unused Omnipaque 8 hours after initial puncture .
Protect from light .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Do not freeze .
For indications , dosage and further information on the use of the Imaging Bulk Package , see package insert .
Rx ONLY Distributed by GE Healthcare Inc . , Marlborough , MA 01752 U . S . A . For inquiries call 1 - 800 - 654 - 0118 Product of Norwegian Origin .
( 01 ) 20304071413726 Exp . : Lot : 1196659 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 350 mg Bottle Box Label GE Healthcare Y - 548 I Contains 10 x 500 mL Bottles NDC 0407 - 1414 - 72 OMNIPAQUE ™ ( iohexol ) Injection 350 mg Iodine / mL IMAGING BULK PACKAGE For Intravenous Use Only For use only with an automated contrast injection system , contrast management system or contrast media transfer set cleared for use with OMNIPAQUE Imaging Bulk Package .
Sterile Aqueous Solution See drug and device labeling for information on devices cleared for use with this Imaging Bulk Package .
Each 1 mL contains 755 mg of iohexol ( 350 mg organically bound iodine ) , 1 . 21 mg tromethamine , and 0 . 1 mg edetate calcium disodium .
The pH is adjusted between 6 . 8 and 7 . 7 with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
No preservative added .
Not for Intrathecal Use .
+ PLUSPAK ™ ( polymer bottle ) Provided the container is held under the labeled storage conditions the maximum use time is 8 hours after initial entry .
Discard unused Omnipaque 8 hours after initial puncture .
Protect from light .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Do not freeze .
For indications , dosage and further information on the use of the Imaging Bulk Package , see package insert .
Rx ONLY Distributed by GE Healthcare Inc . , Marlborough , MA 01752 U . S . A . For inquiries call 1 - 800 - 654 - 0118 Product of Norwegian Origin .
( 01 ) 20304071414723 Exp . : Lot : 1196661 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
