Injectable For Intramuscular Use Only Not for Use in Pediatric Patients DESCRIPTION Chemically , trimethobenzamide HCl is N - [ p - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethoxy ] benzyl ] - 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxybenzamide monohydrochloride .
It has a molecular weight of 424 . 93 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Single - Dose Vials : Each 2 - mL single - dose vial contains 200 mg trimethobenzamide hydrochloride compounded with 1 mg sodium citrate and 0 . 4 mg citric acid as buffers and pH adjusted to approximately 5 . 0 with sodium hydroxide .
Multi - Dose Vials : Each mL contains 100 mg trimethobenzamide hydrochloride compounded with 0 . 45 % phenol as preservative , 0 . 5 mg sodium citrate and 0 . 2 mg citric acid as buffers and pH adjusted to approximately 5 . 0 with sodium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of Tigan ® as determined in animals is obscure , but may involve the chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) , an area in the medulla oblongata through which emetic impulses are conveyed to the vomiting center ; direct impulses to the vomiting center apparently are not similarly inhibited .
In dogs pretreated with trimethobenzamide HCl , the emetic response to apomorphine is inhibited , while little or no protection is afforded against emesis induced by intragastric copper sulfate .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of trimethobenzamide have been studied in healthy adult subjects .
Following administration of 200 mg ( 100 mg / mL ) Tigan I . M . injection , the time to reach maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) was about half an hour , about 15 minutes longer for Tigan 300 mg oral capsule than an I . M . injection .
A single dose of Tigan 300 mg oral capsule provided a plasma concentration profile of trimethobenzamide similar to Tigan 200 mg I . M .
The relative bioavailability of the capsule formulation compared to the solution is 100 % .
The mean elimination half - life of trimethobenzamide is 7 to 9 hours .
Between 30 – 50 % of a single dose in humans is excreted unchanged in the urine within 48 – 72 hours .
The metabolic disposition of trimethobenzamide in humans is not known .
Specifically , it is not known if active metabolites are generated in humans .
Special Populations Age The clearance of trimethobenzamide is not known in patients with renal impairment .
However , it may be advisable to consider reduction in the dosing of trimethobenzamide in elderly patients with renal impairment considering that a substantial amount of excretion and elimination of trimethobenzamide occurs via the kidney and that elderly patients may have various degrees of renal impairment .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gender Systemic exposure to trimethobenzamide was similar between men ( N = 40 ) and women ( N = 28 ) .
Race Pharmacokinetics appeared to be similar for Caucasians ( N = 53 ) and African Americans ( N = 12 ) .
Renal Impairment The clearance of trimethobenzamide is not known in patients with renal impairment .
However , it may be advisable to consider reduction in the dosing of trimethobenzamide in patients with renal impairment considering that a substantial amount of excretion and elimination of trimethobenzamide occurs via the kidney .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
INDICATIONS Tigan ® is indicated for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting and for nausea associated with gastroenteritis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The injectable form of Tigan ® is contraindicated in pediatric patients and in patients with known hypersensitivity to trimethobenzamide .
WARNINGS Tigan ® may produce drowsiness .
Patients should not operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery until their individual responses have been determined .
Usage in Pregnancy Trimethobenzamide hydrochloride was studied in reproduction experiments in rats and rabbits and no teratogenicity was suggested .
The only effects observed were an increased percentage of embryonic resorptions or stillborn pups in rats administered 20 mg and 100 mg / kg and increased resorptions in rabbits receiving 100 mg / kg .
In each study these adverse effects were attributed to one or two dams .
The relevance to humans is not known .
Since there is no adequate experience in pregnant or lactating women who have received this drug , safety in pregnancy or in nursing mothers has not been established .
Usage with Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with Tigan ® may result in an adverse drug interaction .
PRECAUTIONS During the course of acute febrile illness , encephalitides , gastroenteritis , dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , especially in children and the elderly or debilitated , CNS reactions such as opisthotonos , convulsions , coma and extrapyramidal symptoms have been reported with and without use of Tigan ® ( trimethobenzamide hydrochloride ) or other antiemetic agents .
In such disorders caution should be exercised in administering Tigan ® , particularly to patients who have recently received other CNS - acting agents ( phenothiazines , barbiturates , belladonna derivatives ) .
Primary emphasis should be directed toward the restoration of body fluids and electrolyte balance , the relief of fever and relief of the causative disease process .
Overhydration should be avoided since it may result in cerebral edema .
The antiemetic effects of Tigan ® may render diagnosis more difficult in such conditions as appendicitis and obscure signs of toxicity due to overdosage of other drugs .
General Adjustment of Dose in Renal Failure A substantial route of elimination of unchanged trimethobenzamide is via the kidney .
Dosage adjustment should be considered in patients with reduced renal function including some elderly patients .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of trimethobenzamide hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Although there are studies reported in the literature that included elderly patients > 65 years old with younger patients , it is not known if there are differences in efficacy or safety parameters for elderly and non - elderly patients treated with trimethobenzamide .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions and Parkinson - like symptoms .
There have been instances of hypotension reported following parenteral administration to surgical patients .
There have been reports of blood dyscrasias , blurring of vision , coma , convulsions , depression of mood , diarrhea , disorientation , dizziness , drowsiness , headache , jaundice , muscle cramps and opisthotonos .
If these occur , the administration of the drug should be discontinued .
Allergic - type skin reactions have been observed ; therefore , the drug should be discontinued at the first sign of sensitization .
While these symptoms will usually disappear spontaneously , symptomatic treatment may be indicated in some cases .
For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact JHP at 1 - 866 - 923 - 2547 or MEDWATCH at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 ( 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 ) or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch / .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
Dosage should be adjusted according to the indication for therapy , severity of symptoms and the response of the patient .
Geriatric Patients Dose adjustment such as reducing the total dose administered at each dosing or increasing the dosing interval should be considered in elderly patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) .
Final dose adjustment should be based upon integration of clinical efficacy and safety considerations .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Patients with Renal Impairment In subjects with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , dose adjustment such as reducing the total dose administered at each dosing or increasing the dosing interval should be considered .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
INJECTABLE , 100 mg / mL ( Not for use in pediatric patients ) Usual Adult Dosage 2 mL ( 200 mg ) t . i . d . or q . i . d . intramuscularly .
NOTE : The injectable form is intended for intramuscular administration only ; it is not recommended for intravenous use .
Intramuscular administration may cause pain , stinging , burning , redness and swelling at the site of injection .
Such effects may be minimized by deep injection into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal region , and by avoiding the escape of solution along the route .
STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] HOW SUPPLIED Multi - Dose Vials , 20 mL NDC 21695 - 853 - 20 100 mg / mL in 20 mL Multi - Dose Vials Rx Only Prescribing Information as of February 2009 .
Manufactured and Distributed by : JHP Pharmaceuticals , LLC Rochester , MI 48307 3000358 E Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
