Active ingredient Mineral oil 99 . 9 % Purpose Lubricant laxative Use for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) .
Generally productes bowel movement in 6 to 8 hours .
Warnings Do not use • if you have difficulty swallowing • in children under 6 years of age • if you are pregnant • for a period of longer than 1 week • if you are bedridden or aged Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • presently taking a stool softener laxative • taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
• Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
When using this product do not take with meals .
Take only at bedtime .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signd of serious condition .
If breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take with meals • take only at bedtime • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 1 to 3 Tablespoons ( 15 to 45 mL ) maximum 3 Tablespoons ( 45 mL ) in 24 hours children 6 to 12 years of age - 1 to 3 teaspoons ( 15 mL ) in 24 hours children under 6 years of age - do not use , consult a doctor Other information keep tightly closed .
Protect from sunlight .
Inactive ingredients mixed tocopherols ( added as a stabilizer ) DISTRIBUTED BY : Amazon . com , Services , Inc Seattle , WA 98109 1 - 877 - 485 - 0385 2018 Amazon . com , Inc . or its afiliated .
All rights reserved .
Solimo and all related logos are are trademarks of Amazon . com , Inc or its affiliates .
831 . 000 / 831 AA principal display panel SEALED WITH PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP FOR YOUR PROTECTION .
SOLIMO MINERAL OIL U . S . P . LUBRICANT LAXATIVE Odorless tasteless colorless 16 FL OZ ( 1 PT ) 473 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
