Active ingredient Octinoxate , 4 . 0 % Titanium Dioxide , 2 . 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , titanium dioxide , mica , stearyl alcohol , isononyl isononanoate , isohexadecane , PEG - 20 methyl glucose sesquistearate , alcohol denat . , cyclopentasiloxane , hydrogenated polyisobutene , glycerin , propylene glycol , kaolin , potassium cetyl phosphate , phenoxyethanol , ethylhexylglycerin , hydroxyethyl acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , isohexadecane , polysorbate 60 , nylon - 12 , iron oxides , fragrance , triethanolamine , , magnesium aluminum silicate , butylene glycol , allantoin , caffeine , hydroxyethylcellulose , ascorbyl glucoside ( vitamin C ) , disodium EDTA , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , BHT , hyaluronic acid Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 543 - 5125 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Hill Country Essentials Skin Illuminator & Perfector BB Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen With Vitamin C & Mineral Pigments Light / Medium Immediately : refreshes brightens evens out hydrates 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 75 mL ) Formula Highlights : • • Dermatologist tested • • Non - Comedogenic ( won ’ t clog pores ) • • Non - greasy • • Paraben free Hill Country Essentials BB Cream is a convenient all - in - one multi - care product that combines instant skin coverage with advanced skin care to improve the appearance of : • • Skin discolorations • • Dullness • • Blemishes • • Dryness As a result , skin instantly looks more : • • Refreshed and brightened • • Evened out and smooth • • Hydrated up to 24 hours Also the broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen helps protect against the harmful effects of the sun .
Hill Country Essentials Skin Illuminator & Perfector BB Cream is an all - in - one beauty balm that gives instant results that can be both felt and seen .
Skin appears beautifully smooth and even , with an “ airbrushed ” look .
The lightweight texture blends into skin for a sheer , perfect finish .
This hybrid formulation combines vitamin C with mineral pigments and intense moisturization for an instantly transformed appearance .
Directions for Use : Gently smooth onto face and neck 15 minutes prior to sun exposure .
DISTRIBUTED BY : H - E - B ® , SAN ANTONIO , TX 78204 MANUFACTURED IN ISRAEL 6A418 1JC1 WE HOPE YOU ARE SATISFIED WITH THIS PRODUCT .
IF NOT , WE WILL CHEERFULLY REFUND YOUR MONEY .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
