Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL = 1 teaspoon ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 5 mg Cough suppressant Phenylephrine HCl , USP 2 . 5 mg Nasal decongestant Uses Temporarily relieves • nasal and sinus congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold .
Warnings Do not use in a child under 4 years of age • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if the child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • chronic cough that lasts , or as occurs with asthma .
When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occurs .
• symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever .
• cough persists for more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with a fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Consult your pharmacist or health care provider for any appropriate , additional dosage delivery device necessary for use when a physician recommends a dose that is different than the doses that appear on the dosage delivery device that accompanies this product .
Age ( yr ) Dose ( TSP ) under 4 yrs .
ask a doctor 4 to under 6 1 TSP 6 to under 12 2 TSP or as directed by a doctor TSP = teaspoon Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In the case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Prompt medical attention is critical , even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Other information • each teaspoon contains : sodium 2 mg • store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • tamper evident : do not use if foil seal over the mouth of the bottle is torn , broken , or missing .
Directions • may be given every 4 hours • do not use more than 6 times in 24 hours • use only enclosed dosing cup to dose this product .
Do not use any other dosing device .
Questions ?
877 - 434 - 2036 Inactive ingredients artificial flavor , benzoic acid , citric acid , EDTA disodium dihydrate , FD & C red # 40 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium citrate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol .
Distributed by : AccuDial ® Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Palm Beach Gardens , FL 33408 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Label ACCUDIAL ® Children ' s Daytime Cough and Cold Dextromethorphan HBr ( Cough Suppressant ) Phenylephrine HCl ( Nasal Decongestant ) Relieves Cough • Stuffy Nose Earth - Friendly Package !
For Ages 4 yrs to under 12 yrs Tamper Evident Compares to Children ' s Triaminic ® Day Time Cold & Cough CHERRY FLAVOR NDC 45014 - 158 - 04 4 FL .
OZ .
( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
