To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for injection and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cefazolin for injection is a semi - synthetic cephalosporin for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of 3 - { [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] - methyl } - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each vial contains 48 mg ( 2 mEq ) of sodium / 1 gram of cefazolin sodium .
Cefazolin for injection , USP is white to off - white crystalline powder .
Cefazolin for injection , USP is supplied in 10 grams Pharmacy Bulk Packages .
Each Pharmacy Bulk Package contains , cefazolin sodium equivalent to 10 grams of cefazolin .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is sterile dosage form for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are restricted for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are intended for the preparation of admixtures for intravenous use .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED BEFORE USE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of Cefazolin for injection to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for Cefazolin for injection is approximately 1 . 8 hours following IV administration .
In a study ( using normal volunteers ) of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) , Cefazolin for injection produced a steady serum level at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that Cefazolin for injection produces mean peak serum levels approximately equivalent to those seen in normal volunteers .
Bile levels in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum levels by up to 5 times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile levels of Cefazolin for injection are considerably lower than serum levels ( < 1 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the level of Cefazolin for injection becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of Cefazolin for injection across the placenta .
Cefazolin for injection is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin for injection is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
In patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis ( 2 L / hr . )
, Cefazolin for injection produced mean serum levels of approximately 10 and 30 mcg / mL after 24 hours ’ instillation of a dialyzing solution containing 50 mg / L and 150 mg / L , respectively .
Mean peak levels were 29 mcg / mL ( range 13 to 44 mcg / mL ) with 50 mg / L ( 3 patients ) , and 72 mcg / mL ( range 26 to 142 mcg / mL ) with 150 mg / L ( 6 patients ) .
Intraperitoneal administration of Cefazolin for injection is usually well tolerated .
Controlled studies on adult normal volunteers , receiving 1 gram 4 times a day for 10 days , monitoring CBC , SGOT , SGPT , bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase , BUN , creatinine and urinalysis , indicated no clinically significant changes attributed to Cefazolin for injection .
Microbiology In vitro tests demonstrate that the bactericidal action of cephalosporins results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Cefazolin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Aerobic Gram - positive microorganisms Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes and other strains of Streptococci NOTE : Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin .
Many Enterococcus strains are resistant to cefazolin .
Aerobic Gram - negative microorganisms Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella species Proteus mirabilis NOTE : Most strains of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter cloacae , Morganella morganii and Providencia rettgeri are resistant .
Serratia , Pseudomonas , Mima and Herellea species are almost uniformly resistant to cefazolin .
Susceptibility Testing Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method [ 1 ] ( broth ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of cefazolin powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylococcus spp .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation < 8 Susceptible ( S ) 16 Intermediate ( I ) > 32 Resistant ( R ) A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard cefazolin powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) S . aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 25 to 1 E . coli ATCC 25922 1 to 4 Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure [ 2 ] requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 mcg cefazolin to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to cefazolin .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 mcg cefazolin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For Enterobacteriaceae using the 30 mcg cefazolin disk Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation > 18 Susceptible ( S ) 15 to 17 Intermediate ( I ) < 14 Resistant ( R ) For Staphylococcus spp , using the 30 mcg cefazolin or the 30 mcg cephalothin disks Zone diameter ( mm ) Interpretation > 18 Susceptible ( S ) 15 to 17 Intermediate ( I ) < 14 Resistant ( R ) Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for cefazolin .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 mcg cefazolin disk should provide the following zone diameter in this laboratory test quality control strain : Microorganism Zone diameter ( mm ) S . aureus ATCC 25923 29 to 35 E . coli ATCC 25922 23 to 29 [ 1 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Method for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A4 , Vol .
20 , No . 2 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January 2000 .
[ 2 ] National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Seventh Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A7 , Vol .
20 , No . 1 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA January 2000 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefazolin for injection is indicated in the treatment of the following serious infections due to susceptible organisms : Respiratory Tract Infections due to S . pneumoniae , Klebsiella species , H . influenzae , S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , and group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered to be the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin for injection is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of Cefazolin for injection in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available at present .
Urinary Tract Infections due to E . coli , P . mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and some strains of enterobacter and enterococci .
Skin and Skin Structure Infections due to S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , group A beta - hemolytic streptococci , and other strains of streptococci .
Biliary Tract Infections due to E . coli , various strains of streptococci , P . mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and S . aureus .
Bone and Joint Infections due to S . aureus .
Genital Infections ( i . e . , prostatitis , epididymitis ) due to E . coli , P . mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and some strains of enterococci .
Septicemia due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , P . mirabilis , E . coli , and Klebsiella species .
Endocarditis due to S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) and group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
Perioperative Prophylaxis the prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for injection preoperatively , intraoperatively , and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy , and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those older than 70 years , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice , or common duct bile stones ) .
The perioperative use of Cefazolin for injection may also be effective in surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
The prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for injection should usually be discontinued within a 24 hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for injection may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for cultures should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for injection and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WITH KNOWN ALLERGY TO THE CEPHALOSPORIN GROUP OF ANTIBIOTICS .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFAZOLIN , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
IF THIS PRODUCT IS GIVEN TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS , CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS - HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG BETA - LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10 % OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION OCCURS , DISCONTINUE TREATMENT WITH THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES , INCLUDING OXYGEN , IV FLUIDS , IV ANTIHISTAMINES , CORTICOSTEROIDS , PRESSOR AMINES , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , AS CLINICALLY INDICATED .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of " antibiotic - associated colitis . ”
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an oral antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of Cefazolin for injection may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful clinical observation of the patient is essential .
When Cefazolin for injection is administered to patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function , lower daily dosage is required ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As with other β - lactam antibiotics , seizures may occur if inappropriately high doses are administered to patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Cefazolin for injection , as with all cephalosporins , should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated .
Prescribing Cefazolin for injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increase the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Probenecid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood levels .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions A false positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with Benedict ' s solution , Fehling ’ s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets , but not with enzyme - based tests such as CLINISTIX ® .
Positive direct and indirect antiglobulin ( Coombs ) tests have occurred ; these may also occur in neonates whose mothers received cephalosporins before delivery .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Cefazolin for injection , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefazolin for injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefazolin for injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Carcinogenesis / Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of Cefazolin for injection have not been performed .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice and rabbits at doses up to 25 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Cefazolin for injection . There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery When cefazolin has been administered prior to caesarean section , drug levels in cord blood have been approximately one quarter to one third of maternal drug levels .
The drug appears to have no adverse effect on the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Cefazolin for injection is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when Cefazolin for injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness for use in premature infants and neonates have not been established .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for recommended dosage in pediatric patients older than 1 month .
Geriatric Use Of the 920 subjects who received Cefazolin for injection in clinical studies , 313 ( 34 % ) were 65 years and over , while 138 ( 15 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported : Gastrointestinal Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , anorexia , and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Allergic Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed .
As with other cephalosporins , reports of hepatitis have been received .
Renal As with other cephalosporins , reports of increased BUN and creatinine levels , as well as renal failure , have been received .
Local Reactions Rare instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions Genital and anal pruritus ( including vulvar pruritus , genital moniliasis , and vaginitis ) .
Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefazolin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions : Allergic reactions , urticaria , serum sickness - like reaction , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , colitis , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , abdominal pain , reversible hyperactivity , hypertonia , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , and superinfection .
Altered Laboratory Tests : Prolonged prothrombin time , positive direct Coombs ’ test , false - positive test for urinary glucose , elevated bilirubin , elevated LDH , increased creatinine , pancytopenia , and agranulocytosis .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hrs .
Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) [ 1 ] 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours [ 1 ] ln rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of Cefazolin for injection per day have been used .
Perioperative Prophylactic Use To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended doses are : • 1 gram IV administered 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery .
• For lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) , 500 mg to 1 gram IV during surgery ( administration modified depending on the duration of the operative procedure ) .
• 500 mg to 1 gram IV every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively .
It is important that ( 1 ) the preoperative dose be given just ( 1 / 2 to 1 hour ) prior to the start of surgery so that adequate antibiotic levels are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( 2 ) Cefazolin for injection be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient levels of the antibiotic at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for injection may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Reduced Renal Function Cefazolin for injection may be used in patients with reduced renal function with the following dosage adjustments : Patients with a creatinine clearance of 55 mL / min .
or greater or a serum creatinine of 1 . 5 mg % or less can be given full doses .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 35 to 54 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 1 . 6 to 3 mg % can also be given full doses but dosage should be restricted to at least 8 hour intervals .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 11 to 34 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 3 . 1 to 4 . 5 mg % should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 12 hours .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 10 mL / min .
or less or serum creatinine of 4 . 6 mg % or greater should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 18 to 24 hours .
All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection .
Patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis : See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .
Pediatric Dosage In pediatric patients , a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg per kg ( approximately 10 to 20 mg per pound ) of body weight , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses , is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections .
Total daily dosage may be increased to 100 mg per kg ( 45 mg per pound ) of body weight for severe infections .
Since safety for use in premature infants and in neonates has not been established , the use of Cefazolin for injection in these patients is not recommended .
Pediatric Dosage Guide Weight 25 mg / kg / day Divided into 3 Doses 25 mg / kg / day Divided into 4 Doses Lbs Kg Approximate Single Dose mg / q8h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 125 mg / mL Approximate Single Dose mg / q6h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 125 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 40 mg 0 . 35 mL 30 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 75 mg 0 . 6 mL 55 mg 0 . 45 mL 30 13 . 6 115 mg 0 . 9 mL 85 mg 0 . 7 mL 40 18 . 1 150 mg 1 . 2 mL 115 mg 0 . 9 mL 50 22 . 7 190 mg 1 . 5 mL 140 mg 1 . 1 mL Weight 50 mg / kg / day Divided into 3 Doses 50 mg / kg / day Divided into 4 Doses Lbs Kg Approximate Single Dose mg / q8h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 225 mg / mL Approximate Single Dose mg / q6h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 225 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 75 mg 0 . 35 mL 55 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 150 mg 0 . 7 mL 110 mg 0 . 5 mL 30 13 . 6 225 mg 1 mL 170 mg 0 . 75 mL 40 18 . 1 300 mg 1 . 35 mL 225 mg 1 mL 50 22 . 7 375 mg 1 . 7 mL 285 mg 1 . 25 mL In pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 70 to 40 mL / min . )
, 60 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be sufficient .
In patients with moderate impairment ( creatinine clearance of 40 to 20 mL / min . )
, 25 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be adequate .
Pediatric patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 20 to 5 mL / min . )
may be given 10 percent of the normal daily dose every 24 hours .
All dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose .
RECONSTITUTION Preparation of Parenteral Solution Parenteral drug products should be SHAKEN WELL when reconstituted , and inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration .
If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids , the drug solutions should be discarded .
Reconstituted solutions may range in color from pale yellow to yellow without a change in potency .
Directions for Proper Use of a Pharmacy Bulk Package Not for direct infusion .
This Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a hospital pharmacy admixture service , only in a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood .
Using aseptic technique , the container may be penetrated only one time using a suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage .
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , should this not be possible , a maximum time of 4 HOURS from initial closure entry is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations .
This time limit should begin with the introduction of the solvent or diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package .
DISCARD ANY UNUSED PORTION AFTER 4 HOURS .
THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS NOT INTENDED TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT Pharmacy Bulk Package Add Sterile Water for Injection , Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , or Sodium Chloride Injection according to the table below .
SHAKE WELL .
Use promptly .
( Discard vial within 4 hours after initial entry . )
Vial Size Amount of Diluent Approximate Concentration Approximate Available Volume 10 grams 45 mL 1 gram / 5 mL 51 mL 96 mL 1 gram / 10 mL 102 mL ADMINISTRATION Intravenous Administration Intermittent or continuous infusion : Dilute reconstituted Cefazolin for injection in 50 to 100 mL of 1 of the following solutions : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % or 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP Invert Sugar 5 % or 10 % in Sterile Water for Injection Ringer ' s Injection , USP 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP When reconstituted or diluted according to the instructions above , Cefazolin for injection is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Prior to administration parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Cefazolin for injection , USP Each Pharmacy Bulk Package contains cefazolin sodium equivalent to 10 grams of cefazolin .
Cefazolin for injection is available as follows : 10 vials 10 grams / 100 mL vials per carton ( NDC 63304 - 941 - 10 ) .
As with other cephalosporins , Cefazolin for injection tends to darken depending on storage conditions ; within the stated recommendations , however , product potency is not adversely affected .
Store dry powder at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Before reconstitution PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Method for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A4 , Vol .
20 , No . 2 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Seventh Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A7 , Vol .
20 , No . 1 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA January 2000 .
CLINITEST is registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
CLINISTIX is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Orchid Healthcare ( A Division of Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd . ) Irungattukottai , India 602 105 DATE OF ISSUANCE : SEPTEMBER 2006 948025510
