Active ingredient Docosanol 10 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Uses • treats cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • shortens healing time and duration of symptoms : • tingling , pain , burning , and / or itching Warnings Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product • apply only to the affected areas • do not use in or near the eyes • avoid applying directly inside your mouth • do not share this product with anyone .
This may spread the infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years or over : • wash hands before and after applying cream • apply to affected area on the face or lips at the first sign of cold sore / fever blister ( tingle ) .
• early treatment ensures the best results • rub in gently but completely • use 5 times a day until healed • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • do not freeze Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , light mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sucrose distearate , sucrose stearate Questions ?
1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 between 9 am and 5 pm ET , Monday – Friday .
Docosanol Cream , 10 % Thank you for purchasing Docosanol Cream .
We hope that since Docosanol Cream shortens the healing time of cold sores , it helps you look and feel better faster .
Please follow insert directions for proper use and refer to the information below .
You are not alone An estimated one - in - five Americans is affected by cold sores each year .
Most people who experience them get two to three cold sore outbreaks each year .
Just before and during an outbreak , the cold sore infection can be easily passed on to others .
It is especially important to be aware of early warning signs that a cold sore is coming , and to be sure to avoid close physical contact when you have one .
Getting to the Root of the Problem A blister , or cluster of blisters around your mouth , is caused by the cold sore virus .
After the cold sore has healed , the virus stays dormant in your body but can be reactivated by everyday triggers like stress , sunlight , extreme hot or cold weather , colds and flu , lack of sleep , or menstruation .
The Sooner , the Better A typical cold sore outbreak can last as long as seven to ten days .
The sooner you begin using Docosanol Cream , the more effective the medicine will be .
So for best results , use Docosanol Cream at the very start of the cold sore - when you feel the first sign of the tingle , redness , bump or itch .
Docosanol Cream is different from other over - the - counter cold sore products .
Only Docosanol Cream contains 10 % docosanol , which helps to shorten the healing time of cold sores and the duration of symptoms including tingling , pain , itching and burning .
Frequently Asked Questions : How is Docosanol Cream different from the over - the - counter cold sore remedies I have already been using ?
Docosanol Cream is a non - prescription cold sore medicine that can actually shorten healing time and the duration of symptoms .
The sooner you start using Docosanol Cream , the sooner you can begin healing your cold sore .
Who can use Docosanol Cream ?
Adults and children 12 years and over can use Docosanol Cream .
How often can I apply Docosanol Cream ?
Docosanol Cream should be used five times a day until the cold sore is healed .
Apply it directly to the cold sore at the first sign of a tingle , redness , bump or itch for best results .
Can I apply cosmetics on top of Docosanol Cream ?
Yes , cosmetics such as lipstick may be applied over Docosanol Cream .
However , use a separate applicator , like a cotton swab , to apply cosmetics over an unhealed cold sore to avoid spreading the infection .
For best results , remove any cosmetics prior to applying Docosanol Cream .
Made in the USA Distributed by : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 Lancaster Avenue , Wayne , PA 19087 Revised – March 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Premier Value ® COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN ABREVA ® ** Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment Docosanol Cream , 10 % Non - prescription Medicine to Shorten Healing Time * Cold Sore Treatment For Topical Use Only Net Wt .
2 g ( . 07 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
