1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GAMIFANT is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric ( newborn and older ) patients with primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ( HLH ) with refractory , recurrent or progressive disease or intolerance with conventional HLH therapy .
GAMIFANT is an interferon gamma ( IFNγ ) blocking antibody indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric ( newborn and older ) patients with primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ( HLH ) with refractory , recurrent or progressive disease or intolerance with conventional HLH therapy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous infusion only : • Recommended starting dosage : 1 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour twice per week .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer dexamethasone concomitantly with GAMIFANT .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended starting dose of GAMIFANT is 1 mg / kg given as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour twice per week ( every three to four days ) .
Doses subsequent to the initial dose may be increased based on clinical and laboratory criteria [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Administer GAMIFANT until hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) is performed or unacceptable toxicity .
Discontinue GAMIFANT when a patient no longer requires therapy for the treatment of HLH .
2 . 2 Monitoring to Assess Safety Before Initiating GAMIFANT Treatment Conduct testing for latent tuberculosis infections using the purified protein derivative ( PPD ) or IFNγ release assay and evaluate patients for tuberculosis risk factors prior to initiating GAMIFANT .
Administer tuberculosis prophylaxis to patients at risk for tuberculosis , or known to have a positive PPD test result , or positive IFNγ release assay .
During GAMIFANT Treatment Monitor for tuberculosis , adenovirus , EBV and CMV every 2 weeks and as clinically indicated .
2 . 3 Pre - Medications and Concomitant Medication Information Pre - Medications Administer prophylaxis for Herpes Zoster , Pneumocystis jirovecii , and for fungal infections prior to GAMIFANT administration .
Concomitant Medications For patients who are not receiving baseline dexamethasone treatment , begin dexamethasone at a daily dose of at least 5 to 10 mg / m2 the day before GAMIFANT treatment begins .
For patients who were receiving baseline dexamethasone , they may continue their regular dose provided the dose is at least 5 mg / m2 .
Dexamethasone can be tapered according to the judgment of the treating physician [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dose Modification Based on Response The GAMIFANT dose may be titrated up if disease response is unsatisfactory ( see Table 1 ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
After the patient ’ s clinical condition is stabilized , decrease the dose to the previous level to maintain clinical response .
Table 1 : Dose Titration CriteriaTreatment Day GAMIFANT Dose Criteria for Dose Increase Day 1 Starting Dose of 1 mg / kg N / A On Day 3 Increase to 3 mg / kg Unsatisfactory improvement in clinical condition , as assessed by a healthcare provider AND at least one of the following : From Day 6 onwards Increase to 6 mg / kg • Fever – persistence or recurrence • Platelet count • If baseline < 50 , 000 / mm3 and no improvement to > 50 , 000 / mm3 • If baseline > 50 , 000 / mm3 and less than 30 % improvement • If baseline > 100 , 000 / mm3 and decrease to < 100 , 000 / mm3 • Neutrophil count • If baseline < 500 / mm3 and no improvement to > 500 / mm3 • If baseline > 500 - 1000 / mm3 and decrease to < 500 / mm3 • If baseline 1000 - 1500 / mm3 and decrease to < 1000 / mm3 • Ferritin ( ng / mL ) • If baseline ≥ 3000 ng / mL and < 20 % decrease • If baseline < 3000 ng / mL and any increase to > 3000 ng / mL • Splenomegaly – any worsening • Coagulopathy ( both D - Dimer and Fibrinogen must apply ) • D - Dimer • If abnormal at baseline and no improvement • Fibrinogen ( mg / dL ) • If baseline levels ≤ 100 mg / dL and no improvement • If baseline levels > 100 mg / dL and any decrease to < 100 mg / dL From Day 9 onwards Increase to 10 mg / kg Assessment by a healthcare provider that based on initial signs of response , a further increase in GAMIFANT dose can be of benefit 2 . 5 Instructions for Preparation and Administration Preparation GAMIFANT vials are for single - use only .
Prepare the solution for infusion as follows : • Calculate the dose ( mg / kg ) , total volume ( mL ) of GAMIFANT required and the number of GAMIFANT vials needed based on patient actual body weight [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Inspect GAMIFANT vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to dilution .
GAMIFANT is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow liquid .
Do not administer if discolored or foreign particulate matter is present .
• Withdraw the necessary amount of GAMIFANT solution and dilute with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to a maximum concentration of 2 . 5 mg / mL .
Do not dilute product to less than 0 . 25 mg / mL .
• Discard any unused portion left in the vial ( s ) .
• The diluted solution can be placed in either a syringe or an infusion bag , depending on the volume needed .
• Use a gamma irradiated latex - free , polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) - free syringe .
Do not use with ethylene oxide - sterilized syringes .
• Use a non - PVC polyolefin infusion bag .
Administration • Administer GAMIFANT diluted solution intravenously over 1 hour through an intravenous line containing a sterile , non - pyrogenic , low - protein binding 0 . 2 micron in - line filter .
• Do not infuse GAMIFANT concomitantly with other agents and do not add any other product to the infusion bag or syringe .
• Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse .
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements .
Storage of Diluted Solution This product does not contain a preservative .
If not administered immediately : • Store the diluted solution of GAMIFANT under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for no more than 4 hours from the time of dilution .
• If refrigerated , allow the diluted solution to come to room temperature prior to administration .
• Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GAMIFANT is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow preservative - free solution available as : Injection : • 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial • 50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial • 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial Injection : • 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) • 50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) • 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Infections : Monitor patients for signs and symptoms and treat promptly .
Test for latent tuberculosis .
Administer prophylactic treatment against Herpes Zoster , Pneumocystis jirovecii and fungal infections .
( 5 . 1 ) • Live Vaccines : Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving GAMIFANT .
( 5 . 2 ) • Infusion - Related Reactions : Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions .
Interrupt infusion for severe infusion reactions and institute appropriate medical management .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Infections GAMIFANT may increase the risk of fatal and serious infections to include specific pathogens favored by IFNγ neutralization , including mycobacteria , Herpes Zoster virus , and Histoplasma Capsulatum .
Do not administer GAMIFANT in patients with infections caused by these pathogens until appropriate treatment has been initiated .
In 32 % of patients receiving GAMIFANT in clinical trials , serious infections such as sepsis , pneumonia , bacteremia , disseminated histoplasmosis , necrotizing fasciitis , viral infections , and perforated appendicitis were observed .
The reported infections were viral ( 41 % ) , bacterial ( 35 % ) , fungal ( 9 % ) , and the pathogen was not identified in 15 % of cases .
Evaluate patients for tuberculosis risk factors and test for latent infection ( PPD testing , PCR , or IFNγ release assay ) prior to initiating GAMIFANT .
Administer tuberculosis prophylaxis to patients at risk for tuberculosis or known to have a positive purified protein derivative ( PPD ) test result [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Administer prophylaxis for Herpes Zoster , Pneumocystis jirovecii , and fungal infection to mitigate the risk to patients while receiving GAMIFANT .
Employ surveillance testing during treatment with GAMIFANT .
Closely monitor patients receiving GAMIFANT for signs or symptoms of infection , promptly initiate a complete diagnostic workup appropriate for an immunocompromised patient , and initiate appropriate antimicrobial therapy .
5 . 2 Increased Risk of Infection with Use of Live Vaccine Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients receiving GAMIFANT and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of GAMIFANT .
The safety of immunization with live vaccines during or following GAMIFANT therapy has not been studied .
5 . 3 Infusion - Related Reactions Infusion - related reactions including drug eruption , pyrexia , rash , erythema , and hyperhidrosis were reported with GAMIFANT treatment in 27 % of patients .
In one - third of these patients , the infusion - related reaction occurred during the first infusion .
All infusion related reactions were reported as mild to moderate .
Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions .
Interrupt infusion for infusion reactions and institute appropriate medical management prior to continuing infusion at a slower rate .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Infusion - Related Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were : infections , hypertension , infusion - related reactions , and pyrexia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact 1 - 866 - 773 - 5274 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described in this section reflect exposure to GAMIFANT in which 34 patients with untreated primary HLH and previously treated patients with primary HLH ( NCT01818492 ) received GAMIFANT at a starting dose of 1 mg / kg every 3 days with dose increases up to 10 mg / kg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The median duration of treatment with GAMIFANT was 59 days ( range : 4 to 245 days ) and the median cumulative dose was 25 mg / kg ( range : 4 to 254 mg / kg ) .
The median age of study population was 1 year ( range : 0 . 1 to 13 years ) , 53 % were female , and 65 % were Caucasian .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in 53 % of patients .
The most common serious adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) included infections , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , and multiple organ dysfunction .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in two ( 6 % ) of patients and included septic shock and gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
Disseminated histoplasmosis led to drug discontinuation in one patient .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were infections , hypertension , infusion - related reactions , and pyrexia .
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 10 % of patients during treatment with GAMIFANT are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 10 % of Patients with Primary HLHAdverse Reactions GAMIFANT ( % ) ( N = 34 ) Infections [ 1 ] 56 Hypertension [ 2 ] 41 Infusion - related reactions [ 3 ] 27 Pyrexia 24 Hypokalemia 15 Constipation 15 Rash 12 Abdominal pain 12 Cytomegalovirus infection 12 Diarrhea 12 Lymphocytosis 12 Cough 12 Irritability 12 Tachycardia 12 Tachypnea 12 [ 1 ] Includes viral , bacterial , fungal , and infections in which no pathogen was identified [ 2 ] Includes secondary hypertension [ 3 ] Includes events of drug eruption , pyrexia , rash , erythema , and hyperhidrosis Additional selected adverse reactions ( all grades ) that were reported in less than 10 % of patients treated with GAMIFANT included : vomiting , acute kidney injury , asthenia , bradycardia , dyspnea , gastro - intestinal hemorrhage , epistaxis , and peripheral edema .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other emapalumab products may be misleading .
The immunogenicity of emapalumab - lzsg has been evaluated using an electrochemiluminescence - based immunoassay ( ECLIA ) .
A total of 64 subjects were evaluated for anti - therapeutic antibodies ( ATAs ) to emapalumab - lzsg after treatment with GAMIFANT .
ATAs were detected in 3 / 64 subjects ( 5 % ) who received GAMIFANT .
Treatment - emergent ATAs were detected in 1 / 33 ( 3 % ) of patients in the primary HLH clinical trial .
The ATAs in this patient were found to have neutralizing ability .
One patient receiving GAMIFANT through compassionate use developed transient non - neutralizing treatment - emergent ATAs .
In both of these patients , ATAs occurred within the first 9 weeks following the initiation of GAMIFANT treatment .
In addition , one healthy subject tested positive for ATAs following a single dose of GAMIFANT .
No evidence of an altered safety or efficacy profile was identified in the primary HLH patients who developed antibodies to emapalumab - lzsg .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Effect of GAMIFANT on Cytochrome P450 Substrates The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased levels of cytokines ( such as IFNγ ) during chronic inflammation .
By neutralizing IFNγ , use of GAMIFANT may normalize CYP450 activities which may reduce the efficacy of drugs that are CYP450 substrates due to increased metabolism .
Upon initiation or discontinuation of concomitant GAMIFANT , monitor for reduced efficacy and adjust dosage of CYP450 substrate drugs as appropriate .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on GAMIFANT use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
In an animal reproduction study , a murine surrogate anti - mouse IFNγ antibody administered to pregnant mice throughout gestation crossed the placental barrier , and no fetal harm was observed ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In a mouse embryo - fetal development study , a murine surrogate anti - mouse IFNγ antibody was administered every 3 - 4 days throughout organogenesis and late gestation at doses of 0 , 30 , 75 or 150 mg / kg / occasion .
The surrogate antibody was detected in the plasma of all treated pregnant mice and their corresponding fetuses .
No maternal toxicity occurred and there was no evidence of teratogenicity or effects on embryo - fetal survival or growth .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of emapalumab - lzsg in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Published data suggest that only limited amounts of therapeutic antibodies are found in breast milk and they do not enter the neonatal and infant circulations in substantial amounts .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for GAMIFANT and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from GAMIFANT or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of GAMIFANT have been established in pediatric patients , newborn and older , with primary HLH that is reactivated or refractory to conventional therapies .
Use of GAMIFANT is supported by a single - arm trial in 27 pediatric patients with reactivated or refractory primary HLH .
This study included pediatric patients in the following age groups : 5 patients newborn to 6 months , 10 patients 6 months to 2 years , and 12 patients from 2 years to 13 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of GAMIFANT did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Emapalumab - lzsg is an interferon gamma ( IFNγ ) blocking antibody .
Emapalumab - lzsg is produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells by recombinant DNA technology .
Emapalumab - lzsg is an IgG1 immunoglobulin with a molecular weight of approximately 148 kDa .
GAMIFANT ( emapalumab - lzsg ) injection for intravenous use is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution provided in single - dose vials that require dilution prior to intravenous infusion .
Each vial contains 10 mg / 2 mL , 50 mg / 10 mL , or 100 mg / 20 mL emapalumab - lzsg at a concentration of 5 mg / mL .
Each mL also contains the following inactive ingredients : L - Histidine ( 1 . 55 mg ) , L - Histidine monohydrochloride , monohydrate ( 3 . 14 mg ) , Polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 05 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 7 . 30 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Emapalumab - lzsg is a monoclonal antibody that binds to and neutralizes interferon gamma ( IFNγ ) .
Nonclinical data suggest that IFNγ plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of HLH by being hypersecreted .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics IFNγ Inhibition Emapalumab - lzsg reduces the plasma concentrations of CXCL9 , a chemokine induced by IFNγ .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose of 3 mg / kg GAMIFANT does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of emapalumab - lzsg were evaluated in healthy adult subjects and in patients with primary HLH .
Following a 1 mg / kg emapalumab - lzsg dose , median steady state peak concentration was 44 mcg / mL , which was 2 . 9 times higher than after the first dose .
The median steady state trough concentration was 25 mcg / mL , which was 4 . 3 times higher than after the first dose .
Emapalumab - lzsg AUC increases slightly more than proportionally between 1 and 3 mg / kg doses , and less than proportionally at 3 , 6 , and 10 mg / kg doses .
Emapalumab - lzsg exhibits target - mediated clearance dependent on IFNγ production , which can vary between and within patients as a function of time and can affect the recommended dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Emapalumab - lzsg steady state is achieved by the 7 th infusion when the IFNγ production is moderate .
At high IFNγ production , steady - state is reached earlier due to a shorter half - life .
Distribution The central and peripheral volumes of distribution in a subject with body weight of 70 kg are 4 . 2 and 5 . 6 L , respectively .
Elimination Emapalumab - lzsg elimination half - life is approximately 22 days in healthy subjects , and ranged from 2 . 5 to 18 . 9 days in HLH patients .
Emapalumab - lzsg clearance is approximately 0 . 007 L / h in healthy subjects .
In patients , the total clearance of emapalumab - lzsg was significantly influenced by the production of IFNγ , demonstrating target mediated clearance of emapalumab - lzsg .
Metabolism The metabolic pathway of emapalumab - lzsg has not been characterized .
Like other protein therapeutics , GAMIFANT is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways .
Specific Populations Body weight ( 2 to 82 kg ) was a significant covariate of emapalumab - lzsg pharmacokinetics , supporting body weight - based dosing .
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of emapalumab - lzsg were observed based on age ( 0 . 02 to 56 year ) , sex ( 53 % Females ) , race ( 71 . 4 % Caucasian , 12 . 2 % Asian and 8 . 2 % Black ) , renal impairment including dialysis , or hepatic impairment ( mild , moderate , and severe ) .
Drug Interaction Studies No drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with GAMIFANT .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity or genotoxicity studies have been conducted with emapalumab - lzsg .
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of emapalumab - lzsg on fertility ; however , no adverse effects on male or female reproductive organs were observed in the 8 - or 13 - week repeat - dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of GAMIFANT was evaluated in a multicenter , open - label , single - arm trial NI - 0501 - 04 ( NCT01818492 ) in 27 pediatric patients with suspected or confirmed primary HLH with either refractory , recurrent , or progressive disease during conventional HLH therapy or who were intolerant of conventional HLH therapy .
Patients were required to fulfill the following criteria for enrollment : primary HLH based on a molecular diagnosis or family history consistent with primary HLH or five out of the 8 criteria fulfilled : fever , splenomegaly , cytopenias affecting 2 of 3 lineages in the peripheral blood ( hemoglobin < 9 , platelets < 100 x 109 / L , neutrophils < 1 x 109 / L ) , hypertriglyceridemia ( fasting triglycerides > 3 mmol / L or ≥ 265 mg / dL ) and / or hypofibrinogenemia ( ≤ 1 . 5 g / L ) , hemophagocytosis in bone marrow , spleen , or lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy , low or absent NK - cell activity , ferritin ≥ 500 mcg / L , soluble CD25 ≥ 2400 U / mL .
Patients had to have evidence of active disease as assessed by treating physician .
Patients had to fulfill one of the following criteria as assessed by the treating physician : having not responded or not achieved a satisfactory response or not maintained a satisfactory response to conventional HLH therapy , or intolerance to conventional HLH treatments .
Patients with active infections caused by specific pathogens favored by IFNγ neutralization were excluded from the trial ( e . g . , mycobacteria and Histoplasma Capsulatum ) .
Patients received prophylaxis for Herpes Zoster , Pneumocystis jirovecii , and fungal infections .
Twenty - seven patients enrolled and received treatment in the study and twenty patients ( 74 % ) completed the study .
Seven patients ( 26 % ) were prematurely withdrawn .
Twenty - two patients ( 81 % ) enrolled onto the open - label extension study which monitored patients for up to 1 year after HSCT or after the last GAMIFANT infusion ( NI - 0501 - 05 ; NCT02069899 ) .
The study treatment duration was up to 8 weeks after which patients could continue treatment on the extension study .
All patients received an initial starting dose of GAMIFANT of 1 mg / kg every 3 days .
Subsequent doses could be increased to a maximum of 10 mg / kg based on clinical and laboratory parameters interpreted as unsatisfactory response .
Forty - four percent of patients remained at a dose of 1 mg / kg , 30 % of patients increased to 3 - 4 mg / kg and 26 % of patients increased to 6 - 10 mg / kg .
The median time to dose increase was 27 days ( range : 3 - 31 days ) with 22 % of patients requiring a dose increase in the first week of treatment .
All patients received dexamethasone as background HLH treatment with doses between 5 to 10 mg / m2 / day .
Cyclosporine A was continued if administered prior to screening .
Patients receiving methotrexate and glucocorticoids administered intrathecally at baseline could continue these treatments .
In Study NI - 0501 - 04 , the median patient age was 1 year ( 0 . 2 to 13 ) .
Fifty - nine percent of the patients were female , 63 % were Caucasian , 11 % were Asian , and 11 % were Black .
A genetic mutation known to cause HLH was present in 82 % of patients .
The most frequent causative mutations were FHL3 - UNC13D ( MUNC 13 - 4 ) ( 26 % ) , FHL2 - PRF1 ( 19 % ) , and Griscelli Syndrome type 2 ( 19 % ) .
The HLH mutations in the population enrolled are described in Table 3 .
Table 3 : HLH Mutations in Patients with Primary HLH with Prior Therapy GAMIFANT ( N = 27 ) HLH Genetic Confirmation 22 ( 82 ) FHL3 – UNC13D 7 ( 26 ) FHL2 – PRF1 5 ( 19 ) Griscelli Syndrome type 2 ( RAB27A ) 5 ( 19 ) FHL5 – STXBP2 ( UNC18B ) 2 ( 7 . 4 ) FHL4 – STX11 1 ( 3 . 7 ) X - linked Lymphoproliferative Disorder 1 1 ( 3 . 7 ) X - linked Lymphoproliferative Disorder 2 1 ( 3 . 7 ) All patients received previous HLH treatments .
Patients received a median of 3 prior agents before enrollment into the trial .
Prior regimens included combinations of the following agents : dexamethasone , etoposide , cyclosporine A , and anti - thymocyte globulin .
At baseline entry into the study , 78 % of patients had elevated ferritin levels , thrombocytopenia ( 70 % with platelet count of < 100 x 109 cells / L ) , hypertriglyceridemia ( 67 % ) with triglyceride level > 3 mmol / L .
Central nervous system findings were present in 37 % of patients .
Forty - one percent of patients had active infections not due to specific pathogens favored by IFNγ neutralization at the time of GAMIFANT initiation .
The efficacy of GAMIFANT was based upon overall response rate ( ORR ) at the end of treatment , defined as achievement of either a complete or partial response or HLH improvement .
ORR was evaluated using an algorithm that included the following objective clinical and laboratory parameters : fever , splenomegaly , central nervous system symptoms , complete blood count , fibrinogen and / or D - dimer , ferritin , and soluble CD25 ( also referred to as soluble interleukin - 2 receptor ) levels .
Complete response was defined as normalization of all HLH abnormalities ( i . e . , no fever , no splenomegaly , neutrophils > 1x109 / L , platelets > 100x109 / L , ferritin < 2 , 000 μg / L , fibrinogen > 1 . 50 g / L , D - dimer < 500 μg / L , normal CNS symptoms , no worsening of sCD25 > 2 - fold baseline ) .
Partial response was defined as normalization of ≥ 3 HLH abnormalities .
HLH improvement was defined as ≥ 3 HLH abnormalities improved by at least 50 % from baseline .
Table 4 : Overall Response Rate at End of Treatment GAMIFANT ( N = 27 ) Overall Response Rate N ( % ) 17 ( 63 ) ( 95 % CI ) ( 0 . 42 , 0 . 81 ) p - value [ 1 ] 0 . 013 Overall Response by Category Complete response , n ( % ) 7 ( 26 ) Partial response 8 ( 30 ) HLH improvement 2 ( 7 . 4 ) CI = confidence interval [ 1 ] p - value based on Exact Binomial Test at a one - sided significance level of 2 . 5 % comparing proportion of patients with overall response to hypothesized null hypothesis of 40 % .
The median duration of first response , defined as time from achievement of first response to loss of first response , is not reached ( range : 4 - 56 + days ) .
Seventy percent ( 19 / 27 ) of patients proceeded to HSCT .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING GAMIFANT ( emapalumab - lzsg ) injection is a sterile , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in the following packaging configuration : NDC 66658 - 501 - 01 – containing one 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose vial NDC 66658 - 505 - 01 – containing one 50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose vial NDC 66658 - 510 - 01 – containing one 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose vial Store GAMIFANT in a refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8ºC ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze or shake .
This product contains no preservative .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Infections Inform patients and their caregivers of the risk of developing infections during treatment with GAMIFANT , and to report any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Vaccinations Advise patients and their caregivers that the patient should not receive live or live attenuated vaccines during GAMIFANT treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Infusion - Related Reactions Advise patients and their caregivers of the potential for developing infusion - related reactions during treatment with GAMIFANT [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB ( publ ) Stockholm , Sweden U . S . License Number 1859 Distributed by : Sobi Inc . 77 Fourth Avenue , 3 rd Floor Waltham , MA 02451 - 7559 Manufactured at : Patheon Italia S . p . A 2 ° Trav .
SX Via Morolense , 5 03013 - Ferentino Italy Product of the United Kingdom MEDICATION GUIDE GAMIFANT ® ( gam ' i fant ) ( emapalumab - lzsg ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about GAMIFANT ?
GAMIFANT can cause serious side effects including : Infections .
GAMIFANT is a medicine that affects your immune system and may lower the ability of your immune system to fight infections .
GAMIFANT may increase your risk of serious infections that can lead to death .
These infections include tuberculosis ( TB ) , histoplasmosis , Herpes zoster infection ( shingles ) and other infections caused by viruses , fungi or bacteria that can spread throughout the body .
Your healthcare provider will : • test you for TB before you start treatment with GAMIFANT .
• treat you with a medicine for TB if you at risk for TB or if you have a known positive TB test .
Infections are common in people treated with GAMIFANT .
Before starting GAMIFANT , tell your healthcare provider if you : • had TB in the past , or if you or a member of your family have been in recent close contact with someone with TB .
• have ever had a positive TB skin test ( PPD ) .
• currently have or have had history of infections , including histoplasmosis or Herpes zoster ( shingles ) .
• are being treated for an active infection .
• have symptoms of an infection , such as fever , sweat and chills , cough , breathing problems , blood in mucus ( phlegm ) , warm , red , or painful skin or sores on your body .
Your healthcare provider will give you medicine to help prevent certain infections before you receive GAMIFANT .
After starting GAMIFANT , tell your healthcare provider if : • new symptoms of an infection appear .
• symptoms of an infection that you already had when starting GAMIFANT worsen .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you closely for signs and symptoms of infections during treatment with GAMIFANT .
See " What are the possible side effects of GAMIFANT ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is GAMIFANT ?
GAMIFANT is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of adults and children ( newborn and older ) with primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ( HLH ) whose disease has come back or progressed , or other medicines have not worked well enough or cannot be tolerated .
Before you receive GAMIFANT , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions including if you : • have an infection ( see " What is the most important information I should know about GAMIFANT ? " )
• have received or are scheduled to receive an immunization ( vaccine ) .
You should not receive " live or attenuated - live " vaccines during your treatment with GAMIFANT and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of GAMIFANT .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if GAMIFANT can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if GAMIFANT passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with GAMIFANT .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive GAMIFANT ?
• You will receive GAMIFANT through a vein by intravenous ( IV ) infusion over 1 hour .
• Your healthcare provider will monitor you during the infusion for side effects .
• GAMIFANT is given 2 times a week ( every 3 to 4 days ) .
• Your healthcare provider will do blood tests during your treatment with GAMIFANT to see how well you respond to treatment .
• GAMIFANT is used with another prescription medicine called dexamethasone .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about dexamethasone .
What are the possible side effects of GAMIFANT ?
GAMIFANT can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about GAMIFANT ? "
• Infusion reactions .
Infusion reactions are common with GAMIFANT , and can also be severe .
Infusion reactions can happen during or shortly after treatment with GAMIFANT .
Your healthcare provider may temporarily stop your infusion and treat your symptoms before continuing your infusion if you have severe infusion reactions .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms : • skin redness • itching • fever • rash • excessive sweating • chills • chest pain • shortness of breath • nausea or vomiting • lightheadedness or dizziness The most common side effects of GAMIFANT include : high blood pressure ( hypertension ) and fever .
These are not all of the possible side effects of GAMIFANT .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of GAMIFANT .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about GAMIFANT that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in GAMIFANT ?
Active ingredient : emapalumab - lzsg Inactive ingredients : L - Histidine , L - Histidine monohydrochloride , monohydrate , Polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , and Water for Injection , USP Manufactured at : Patheon Italia S . p . A . 2 ° Trav .
SX Via Morolense , 5 , 03013 - Ferentino Italy Manufactured by : Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB ( publ ) , Stockholm , Sweden , U . S . License Number 1859 Distributed by : Sobi Inc . , 77 Fourth Avenue , 3 rd Floor , Waltham , MA 02451 - 7559 Product of the United Kingdom For more information call 1 - 866 - 773 - 5274 or go to www . gamifant . com This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 05 / 2022 Principal Display Panel - 10 mg / 2 mL Carton Label NDC 66658 - 501 - 01 Gamifant ® ( emapalumab - lzsg ) Injection 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For intravenous infusion only .
Requires dilution prior to administration .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 50 mg / 10 mL Carton Label NDC 66658 - 505 - 01 Gamifant ® ( emapalumab - lzsg ) Injection 50 mg / 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For intravenous infusion only .
Requires dilution prior to administration .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 100 mg / 20 mL Carton Label NDC 66658 - 510 - 01 Gamifant ® ( emapalumab - lzsg ) Injection 100 mg / 20 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For intravenous infusion only .
Requires dilution prior to administration .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
