Active ingredients : Menthol 4 . 5 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Active ingredients : Capsaicin 0 . 0225 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Uses : For temporary relief of minor aches & pains of muscles & joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Directions : Adults and children 12 years and over : Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day .
Do not leave patch on for more than 8 hours at a time .
Instructions for Use : • Clean and dry the affected area .
• Open pouch and remove one patch .
• Remove any protective film and apply directly to affected area of pain .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
• Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches .
• Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
• Discontinue use at least 1 hour before a bath or shower and do not use immediately after a bath or shower .
• Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Warnings : • For external use only .
Use only as directed or by a health professional .
• Do not use : On wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin .
- On eyes , mouth , genitals , or any other mucus membranes .
• Stop and consult your physician if pregnant or if pain worsens • Allergy Alert : if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product or chili peppers contact a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Consult physician for children under 12 .
Other Ingredients : Water , Glycerol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Polysorbate 80 , Citrus Medica Limonum ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , EDTA Disodium salt , Diazolidinyl Urea , Methylparaben , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , Propylparaben .
Questions or Comments Call 888 . 495 . 6078 PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information ( updated 6 / 2015 ) Read the patient information sheet provided before you start using this medication and each time you get a refill .
If you have any questions , please consult your doctor or pharmacist .
Inform your doctor if your condition does not improve or if it worsens .
This information may not include all of the information needed to use MenCaps Patch ® safely and effectively .
For Topical Use Only What is MenCaps Patch ® ?
This is a topical patch consisting of the topical analgesic , menthol , and the topical analgesic , capsaicin extract .
What is MenCaps Patch ® used for ?
The patch is applied to the skin assisting patients in the management of mild to moderate acute or moderate aches or pain of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , backache , strains and sprains .
The diagnosis of acute or chronic topical pain can be made relatively simply by the diagnostic practitioner , however uncovering the underlying pathology manifesting as pain and discomfort is often more difficult .
The combination of capsaicin and menthol is a highly effective combination of working synergistically to ease the discomfort while the root cause is being managed and treated by your healthcare team .
DO NOT USE : • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product • On wounds or damaged skin • With a heating pad • Concurrently with any other external pain - relieving products What are the possible side effects with MenCaps Patch ® • Common ( ≥ 10 % ) : itching , redness or flaking of the skin following application ( note : the majority of patients experience no significant adverse events following patch application ) .
• NOTE : serious side effects are , in general , related to accidental toxicity of medication by applying considerably more than directed by your doctor or pharmacist • Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take .
This includes prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements WARNINGS : • Do not use : • On wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin • On eyes , mouth , genitals , or other mucous membranes • Consult physician for children under 12 years of age • Stop and consult your prescriber if pain worsens • DISCONTINUE USE AT LEAST 1 HOURS BEFORE A BATH OR SHOWER AND DO NOT USE IMMEDIATELY AFTER A BATH OR SHOWER Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following warning signs or any other unusual symptoms that concern you : • Shortness of breath • Swelling or numbness of the tongue or throat • Severe headache or vomiting • Dizziness or faintness • Changes in vision or speech This is not a complete list of the possible side effects .
For more information , talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : Adults and children 12 years and over : Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day .
MenCaps Patch ® should not be left on for more than 8 hours at a time .
• Clean and dry the affected area .
• Open pouch and remove one patch .
• Remove any protective film and apply directly to the painful area .
Apply immediately after opening .
• Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches .
• Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
• Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself .
Next , safely discard the used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Children under 12 years of age : • Consult a doctor .
General information about the safe and effective use MenCaps Patch ® Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use this product for another indication .
Your doctor has prescribed this drug for you and you alone .
Do not give this drug to anyone else , even if they have the same condition .
How should I store MenCaps Patch ® Store product at room temperature at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep away from heat and sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Discard product after expiration date posted on the product label .
DO NOT use the product after the expiration date printed on the box .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN This leaflet provides the most important information about MenCaps Patch ® .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
There is additional information in the following sections intended for healthcare professionals .
What are the active ingredients in MenCaps Patch ® ?
The patch consists of 4 . 5 % menthol and 0 . 0225 % capsaicin .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Water Aloe Barbadesis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Glycerol EDTA Disodium salt Sodium Polyacrylate Diazolidinyl Urea Polysorbate 80 Methylparaben Propylparaben Citrus Medica Limonum Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate ( Lemon ) Peel Oil PRESCRIBER INFORMATION MenCaps Patch ® ( Menthol 4 . 5 % / Capsaicin 0 . 0225 % Topical Patch ) DESCRIPTION : MenCaps Patch ® is an OTC topical patch containing 15 articulated MenCaps patches ( 5 per re - sealable pouch x 3 pouches ) .
Capsaicin is present in a 0 . 0225 % concentration ( w / w ) .
It is chemically designated as ( E ) - N - [ ( 4 - Hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) methyl ] - 8 - methylnon - 6 - enamide and has an empirical formula of C 18 H 27 NO 3 .
The molecular weight of capsaicin is 305 . 41 g / mol .
Menthol is present in a 4 . 5 % concentration ( w / w ) .
The chemical name is ( 1 R , 2 S , 5 R ) - 2 - isopropyl - 5 - methylcyclohexanol .
The empirical formula for menthol is C 10 H 20 O with a molecular weight of 156 . 27 g / mol .
The structural formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Capsaicin is an active component of chili peppers known clinically as a rubefacient .
It acts as a counter - irritant by producing heat when in contact with human tissue .
Mechanistically , capsaicin exerts its analgesic and anti - inflammatory effects by mimicking a burning sensation – whereby overwhelming the nerves by calcium influx , thereby rendering the nerves unable to signal a pain response for an extended period of time .
With repeated exposure , the neurons become depleted of neurotransmitters – specifically substance P - leading to a reduction in the sensation of pain and the blockade of neurogenic inflammation .
This process is reversed when the capsaicin is discontinued .
Menthol has local anesthetic and counterirritant qualities , and it also acts as a weak kappa ( κ ) opioid receptor agonist .
Menthol acts to chemically trigger the cold - sensitive TRPM - 8 receptors in the skin - responsible for the well - known cooling sensation it stimulates when applied directly to the skin .
Menthol ' s analgesic properties are not fully understood , however they are mediated through a selective activation of κ - opioid receptors .
Menthol also blocks voltage - sensitive sodium channels , reducing neural activity that may stimulate muscle tissue .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : MenCaps Patch ® is a formulation used to assist patients for the temporary relief of minor aches & pains of muscles & joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Peripheral neuropathies such as diabetic neuropathy or post herpetic neuralgia , may also be symptomatically improved using this patch if recommended by the healthcare team .
Other uses may be considered if deemed clinically relevant .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Known hypersensitivity to menthol , capsaicin , or any of the inactive ingredients listed above .
WARNINGS : • Do not use on wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin • Do not use on eyes , mouth , genitals , or any other mucous membranes • Keep out of reach of children PRECAUTIONS : Because of the possibility of sedation , patients should be cautioned regarding the operation of serious machinery or automobiles , and activities made hazardous by decreased alertness .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : No Drug interactions have been assessed with MenCaps Patch ® CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Nonclinical toxicity studies to determine the potential of this topical preparation to cause carcinogenicity or mutagenicity have not been performed .
The effect of the product on fertility has not been evaluated in animals .
PREGNANCY : The safety of MenCaps Patch ® has not been established during pregnancy .
There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
PEDIATRIC / GERIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric and geriatric patients have not been established .
NURSING MOTHERS : The effect of MenCAps Patch ® on the nursing infant has not been evaluated .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most common adverse reactions are application site reactions , including dermatitis , itching or scaling .
These tend to be dose - limiting and diminish with time .
Serious adverse experiences following the administration of MenCaps Patch ® are similar in nature to those observed in other amide anesthetic - containing agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage , rapid absorption , or may result from hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy , or a diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
OVERDOSAGE : There have been no reports of over - dosage with MenCaps Patch ® .
Signs of overdosage would include vomiting , drowsiness , coma , respiratory depression , and seizures .
In the case of an overdosage , discontinue the product immediately , treat the patient symptomatically , and institute supportive measures .
STORAGE : Store at room temperature at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep away from heat or sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
The product can be considered safe and effective to use when maintained under these recommended conditions within the posted expiration date .
HOW SUPPLIED : MenCaps Patch ® is supplied in the following dosage form : • 15 Articulated Patches [ ( 5 per Re - sealable Pouch ) x 3 ] Manufactured for : Alexso Inc 2317 Cotner Ave • Los Angeles , CA 90064 www . alexso . com • 888 . 495 . 6078 NDC : 50488 - 1701 - 1 Size : 15 Patches Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box Label Box Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
