Active ingredient ( in each capsule ) Lansoprazole 15 mg Purpose Acid Reducer Use • • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn ; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • liver disease • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • • you get diarrhea • • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults 18 years of age and older • • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 - Day Course of Treatment • • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • • take every day for 14 days • • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • • swallow whole .
Do not crush or chew capsules .
• • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • • you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • • children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor before use .
Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • • read the directions , warnings and package insert before use • • keep the carton and package insert .
They contain important information .
• • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • keep product out of high heat and humidity • • protect product from moisture • • close cap tightly after use Inactive ingredients D & C red no . 28 , D & C yellow no . 10 , FD & C blue no . 1 , gelatin , hypromellose , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , mannitol , meglumine , methacrylic acid copolymer , pharmaceutical ink , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium lauryl sulfate , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 Consumer Information Treats Frequent Heartburn Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg / Acid Reducer • • May take 1 to 4 days for full effect • • Sodium Free Please read the entire package insert before taking Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg .
Save for future reference .
How Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg Treats Your Frequent Heartburn Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg stops acid production at the source – the pumps that release acid into the stomach .
Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg is taken once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days .
What You Can Expect When Taking Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg Frequent heartburn can occur anytime during the 24 - hour period ( day or night ) .
Take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg in the morning before eating .
Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg is clinically proven to treat frequent heartburn .
Although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours , it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect .
Make sure you take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg every day for 14 days to treat your frequent heartburn .
Who Should Take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg Adults ( 18 years and older ) with frequent heartburn – when you have heartburn 2 or more days a week .
Who Should NOT Take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg People who have one episode of heartburn a week or less , or who want immediate relief of heartburn .
How to Take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg 14 - DAY Course of Treatment • • Swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning .
• • Take every day for 14 days .
• • Do not take more than 1 capsule a day .
• • Swallow whole .
Do not crush or chew capsules .
• • Do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor .
When to Take Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg Again You may repeat a 14 - day course of therapy every 4 months .
When to Talk to Your Doctor Do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor .
Warnings and When to Ask Your Doctor Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • liver disease • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • • you get diarrhea • • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Tips for Managing Heartburn • • Avoid foods or drinks that are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol and even some acidic fruits and vegetables .
• • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals .
• • Do not eat late at night or just before bedtime .
• • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating .
• • Raise the head of your bed .
• • Wear loose - fitting clothing around your stomach .
• • If you are overweight , lose weight .
• • If you smoke , quit smoking .
Clinical studies prove Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg effectively treats frequent heartburn In three clinical studies , Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg was shown to be significantly better than placebo in treating frequent heartburn .
How Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg is Sold Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg is available in 14 capsule , 28 capsule and 42 capsule sizes .
These sizes contain one , two and three 14 - day courses of treatment , respectively .
Do not use for more than 14 days in a row unless directed by your doctor .
For the 28 count ( two 14 - day courses ) and the 42 count ( three 14 - day courses ) , you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months .
For Questions or Comments About Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg Call 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 3T300 00 J6 Package / Label Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO the active ingredient of PREVACID ® 24 HR See bottom panel OUR PHARMACIST RECOMMENDED Lansoprazole Delayed - Release Capsules 15 mg ACID REDUCER May Take 1 to 4 Days for Full Effect Sodium Free actual size Treats Frequent Heartburn 24 HR 14 CAPSULES One 14 - day courses of treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
