Rx Only For Topical Use Only .
Not for Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use .
DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % contains the active synthetic corticosteroid desoximetasone , USP .
The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Each gram of desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone , USP in an emollient cream base consisting of cetostearyl alcohol , edetate disodium , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohol , mineral oil , purified water , and white petrolatum .
The chemical name of desoximetasone , USP is Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Desoximetasone , USP has the molecular formula C22H29FO4 and a molecular weight of 376 . 47 .
The CAS Registry Number is 382 - 67 - 2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % with tagged desoximetasone showed a total of 5 . 2 % ± 2 . 9 % excretion in urine ( 4 . 1 % ± 2 . 3 % ) and feces ( 1 . 1 % ± 0 . 6 % ) and no detectable level ( limit of sensitivity : 0 . 005 mcg / mL ) in the blood when it was applied topically on the back followed by occlusion for 24 hours .
Seven days after application , no further radioactivity was detected in urine or feces .
The half - life of the material was 15 ± 2 hours ( for urine ) and 17 ± 2 hours ( for feces ) between the third and fifth trial day .
Studies with other similarly structured steroids have shown that predominant metabolite reaction occurs through conjugation to form the glucuronide and sulfate ester .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressings .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % without first consulting with the physician .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Desoximetasone was nonmutagenic in the Ames test .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Desoximetasone has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration in doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
In controlled clinical studies the incidence of adverse reactions were low ( 0 . 8 % ) for desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % , and included burning , folliculitis , and folliculo - pustular lesions .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
HOW SUPPLIED Desoximetasone cream USP , 0 . 25 % is available as follows : 15 gram tube : NDC 0472 - 0478 - 15 60 gram tube : NDC 0472 - 0478 - 60 Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 1 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis NDC 0472 - 0478 - 15 Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR ORAL , OPTHALMIC , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
NET WT .
15 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
