Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Topical Anesthetic Purpose Temporarily relieves minor pain .
Dosage and Administration Directions Adults and children over 12 years : • clean and dry affected area • carefully remove backing from patch starting at corner • apply sticky side of patch to affected area • use one patch for up to 24 hours .
Discard patch after single use .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Warnings For external use only .
Idications and Usage Uses : Temporaily relieves minor pains .
When using this product • use only as directed • read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • do not allow contact with the eyes • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • do not microwave • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and consult a doctor • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not Use • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away 800 - 222 - 1222 Other Safety Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive Ingredients Alicyclic Hydrocarbon Resin , Mineral Oil , Polyester film , Silicone – coated polyester film and styrene isoprene styrene block copolymer NDC : 71399 - 3884 - 6 Package size : 6 Patches Questions ?
Please Call 1 ( 877 ) 225 - 6999 Manufactured for : Akron Pharma , Inc .
Fairfield , NJ 07004 Manufactured in U . S . A Re - Lieved Lidocaine 4 % Patch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
