Drug Facts Active Ingredients Minoxidil 5 % w / v Purpose Hair Regrowth Treatment For Men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use if You are a woman Your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
You have no family history of hair loss .
Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy .
You do not know the reason for your hair loss .
You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children .
Your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful .
You use other medicines on the scalp .
ASK DOCTOR Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product Do not apply on other parts of the body .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
Some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice daily usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs .
Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs .
Your hands or feet swell .
Scalp irritation or redness occurs .
Unwanted facial hair growth occurs .
You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months .
Pregnancy or breast feeding May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions Apply one mL 2 times daily directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
Using more or more often will not improve results .
Continued use is necessary or hair loss will resume .
Other information See hair loss picture on the side of this carton .
Before use , read all information on carton and printed insert .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % .
In clinical studies with mostly caucasian men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % for men provided more hair growth than Minoxidil Topical Solution 2 % .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified water Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 237 - 7157 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
