Rx only For Dermatologic Use Only — Not for Ophthalmic Use .
DESCRIPTION Fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % contains fluticasone propionate [ ( 6α , 11β , 16α , 17α ) - 6 , 9 , - difluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 3 - oxo - 17 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) androsta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17 - carbothioic acid , S - fluoromethyl ester ] , a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid , for topical dermatologic use .
The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , fluticasone propionate is C25H31F3O5S .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluticasone propionate has a molecular weight of 500 . 6 .
It is a white to off - white powder and is insoluble in water .
Each gram of fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % contains fluticasone propionate 0 . 05 mg in a base of liquid paraffin , microcrystalline wax , propylene glycol , and sorbitan sesquioleate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , fluticasone propionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Fluticasone propionate is lipophilic and has a strong affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor .
It has weak affinity for the progesterone receptor , and virtually no affinity for the mineralocorticoid , estrogen , or androgen receptors .
The therapeutic potency of glucocorticoids is related to the half - life of the glucocorticoid - receptor complex .
The half - life of the fluticasone propionate - glucocorticoid receptor complex is approximately 10 hours .
Studies performed with fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionThe activity of fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % is due to the parent drug , fluticasone propionate .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressing enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
In a study of 6 healthy volunteers applying 25 g of fluticasone propionate ointment 0 . 005 % twice daily to the trunk and legs for up to 5 days under occlusion , plasma levels of fluticasone ranged from 0 . 08 to 0 . 22 ng / mL .
- In an animal study using radiolabeled 0 . 05 % fluticasone propionate cream and ointment preparations , rats received a topical dose of 1 g / kg for a 24 - hour period .
Total recovery of radioactivity was approximately 80 % at the end of 7 days .
The majority of the dose ( 73 % ) was recovered from the surface of the application site .
Less than 1 % of the dose was recovered in the skin at the application site .
Approximately 5 % of the dose was absorbed systemically through the skin .
Absorption from the skin continued for the duration of the study ( 7 days ) , indicating a long retention time at the application site .
DistributionFollowing intravenous administration of 1 mg of fluticasone propionate in healthy volunteers , the initial disposition phase for fluticasone propionate was rapid and consistent with its high lipid solubility and tissue binding .
The apparent volume of distribution averaged 4 . 2 L / kg ( range , 2 . 3 - 16 . 7 L / kg ) .
The percentage of fluticasone propionate bound to human plasma proteins averaged 91 % .
Fluticasone propionate is weakly and reversibly bound to erythrocytes .
Fluticasone propionate is not significantly bound to human transcortin .
MetabolismNo metabolites of fluticasone propionate were detected in an in vitro study of radiolabeled fluticasone propionate incubated in a human skin homogenate .
The total blood clearance of systemically absorbed fluticasone propionate averages 1093 mL / min ( range , 618 - 1702 mL / min ) after a 1 - mg intravenous dose , with renal clearance accounting for less than 0 . 02 % of the total .
Fluticasone propionate is metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 3A4 - mediated hydrolysis of the 5 - fluoromethyl carbothioate grouping .
This transformation occurs in 1 metabolic step to produce the inactive 17 - β - carboxylic acid metabolite , the only known metabolite detected in man .
This metabolite has approximately 2000 times less affinity than the parent drug for the glucocorticoid receptor of human lung cytosol in vitro and negligible pharmacological activity in animal studies .
Other metabolites detected in vitro using cultured human hepatoma cells have not been detected in man .
ExcretionFollowing an intravenous dose of 1 mg in healthy volunteers , fluticasone propionate showed polyexponential kinetics and had an average terminal half - life of 7 . 2 hours ( range , 3 . 2 - 11 . 2 hours ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adult patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % was approximately 4 % .
These adverse reactions were usually mild , self - limiting , and consisted primarily of pruritus , burning , hypertrichosis , increased erythema , hives , irritation , and lightheadedness .
Each of these events occurred individually in less than 1 % of patients .
In a study of 35 pediatric patients treated with fluticasone propionate ointment 0 . 005 % for atopic dermatitis over at least 35 % of body surface area , subnormal adrenal function was observed with cosyntropin stimulation testing at the end of 3 to 4 weeks of treatment in 4 patients who had normal testing prior to treatment .
It is not known if these patients had recovery of adrenal function because follow - up testing was not performed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Telangiectasia on the face was noted in one patient on the eighth day of a four week treatment period .
Facial use was discontinued and the telangiectasia resolved .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Also , there are discontinuation of potent topical corticosteroid products .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
Fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % should not be used with occlusive dressings .
Geriatric UseIn studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with fluticasone propionate ointment , 0 . 005 % , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluticasone Propionate Ointment , 0 . 005 % is available as follows : 30 g tube ( NDC 54868 - 5458 - 1 ) 60 g tube ( NDC 54868 - 5458 - 0 ) STORAGEStore at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO ® ALLEGAN , MI 49010 Manufactured by : Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Rev . 07 / 09 0A300 RC J4 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Fluticasone Propionate Ointment , 0 . 005 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
