FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION The active component of PROVENTIL ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol is albuterol sulfate , USP racemic α1 [ ( tert - Butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator having the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albuterol sulfate is the official generic name in the United States .
The World Health Organization recommended name for the drug is salbutamol sulfate .
The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 . 7 , and the empirical formula is ( C13H21 NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
Albuterol sulfate is a white to off - white crystalline solid .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol is a pressurized metered - dose aerosol unit for oral inhalation .
It contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol sulfate in propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) , ethanol , and oleic acid .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg albuterol sulfate , USP from the valve and 108 mcg albuterol sulfate , USP from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base from the mouthpiece ) .
Each canister provides 200 inhalations .
It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
This product does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of ActionIn vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors on bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % of cardiac beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established .
( See WARNINGS , Cardiovascular Effects section . )
Activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle leads to the activation of adenylcyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP leads to the activation of protein kinase A , which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscles of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
Albuterol has been shown in most clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes .
Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta2 - agonist and methylxanthines were administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Propellant HFA - 134 a is devoid of pharmacological activity except at very high doses in animals ( 380 - 1300 times the maximum human exposure based on comparisons of AUC values ) , primarily producing ataxia , tremors , dyspnea , or salivation .
These are similar to effects produced by the structurally related chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) , which have been used extensively in metered dose inhalers .
In animals and humans , propellant HFA - 134 a was found to be rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated , with an elimination half - life of 3 to 27 minutes in animals and 5 to 7 minutes in humans .
Time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) and mean residence time are both extremely short , leading to a transient appearance of HFA - 134 a in the blood with no evidence of accumulation .
Pharmacokinetics In a single - dose bioavailability study which enrolled six healthy , male volunteers , transient low albuterol levels ( close to the lower limit of quantitation ) were observed after administration of two puffs from both PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
No formal pharmacokinetic analyses were possible for either treatment , but systemic albuterol levels appeared similar .
Clinical Trials In a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , double - dummy , active - and placebo - controlled trial , 565 patients with asthma were evaluated for the bronchodilator efficacy of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 193 patients ) in comparison to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler ( 186 patients ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 186 patients ) .
Serial FEV1 measurements ( shown below as percent change from test - day baseline ) demonstrated that two inhalations of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo and produced outcomes which were clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
The mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in FEV1 was 6 minutes and the mean time to peak effect was 50 to 55 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in FEV1 was 3 hours .
In some patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In another clinical study in adults , two inhalations of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol taken 30 minutes before exercise prevented exercise - induced bronchospasm as demonstrated by the maintenance of FEV1 within 80 % of baseline values in the majority of patients .
In a 4 - week , randomized , open - label trial , 63 children , 4 to 11 years of age , with asthma were evaluated for the bronchodilator efficacy of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 33 pediatric patients ) in comparison to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler ( 30 pediatric patients ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serial FEV1 measurements as percent change from test - day baseline demonstrated that two inhalations of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol produced outcomes which were clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
The mean time to onset of a 12 % increase in FEV1 for PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol was 7 minutes and the mean time to peak effect was approximately 50 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 12 % increase in FEV1 was 2 . 3 hours .
In some pediatric patients , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In another clinical study in pediatric patients , two inhalations of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol taken 30 minutes before exercise provided comparable protection against exercise - induced bronchospasm as a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated in adults and children 4 years of age and older for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm with reversible obstructive airway disease and for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any other PROVENTIL HFA components .
WARNINGS • Paradoxical Bronchospasm : Inhaled albuterol sulfate can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister .
• Deterioration of Asthma : Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
• Use of Anti - inflammatory Agents : The use of beta - adrenergic - agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids , to the therapeutic regimen .
• Cardiovascular Effects : PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
• Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose : Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected .
• Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions : Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol sulfate , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol sulfate , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen in individual patients and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information for Patients See illustrated Patient ' s Instructions for Use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Patients should be given the following information : It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
KEEPING THE PLASTIC MOUTHPIECE CLEAN IS VERY IMPORTANT TO PREVENT MEDICATION BUILDUP AND BLOCKAGE .
THE MOUTHPIECE SHOULD BE WASHED , SHAKEN TO REMOVE EXCESS WATER , AND AIR DRIED THOROUGHLY AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK .
INHALER MAY CEASE TO DELIVER MEDICATION IF NOT PROPERLY CLEANED .
The mouthpiece should be cleaned ( with the canister removed ) by running warm water through the top and bottom for 30 seconds at least once a week .
The mouthpiece must be shaken to remove excess water , then air dried thoroughly ( such as overnight ) .
Blockage from medication buildup or improper medication delivery may result from failure to thoroughly air dry the mouthpiece .
If the mouthpiece should become blocked ( little or no medication coming out of the mouthpiece ) , the blockage may be removed by washing as described above .
If it is necessary to use the inhaler before it is completely dry , shake off excess water , replace canister , test spray twice away from face , and take the prescribed dose .
After such use , the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly .
The action of PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of doses of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , medical attention should be sought immediately .
While you are taking PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects of treatment with inhaled albuterol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Effective and safe use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Use PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol only with the actuator supplied with the product .
Discard the canister after 200 sprays have been used .
In general , the technique for administering PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol to children is similar to that for adults .
Children should use PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol under adult supervision , as instructed by the patient ' s physician .
( See Patient ' s Instructions for Use . )
Drug Interactions • Beta - Blockers : Beta - adrenergic - receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers should be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
• Diuretics : The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
• Albuterol - Digoxin : Mean decreases of 16 % and 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear ; nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
• Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants : PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in SPRAGUE - DAWLEY ® rats , albuterol sulfate caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at the above dietary doses of 2 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a nonselective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1700 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden Hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 225 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 340 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Albuterol sulfate has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice given albuterol sulfate subcutaneously showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at a dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at 50 mg / kg dose ( approximately 680 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In an inhalation reproduction study in SPRAGUE - DAWLEY rats , the albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation did not exhibit any teratogenic effects at 10 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 70 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol or albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
Because no consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Use in Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis : Albuterol has not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol .
Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of albuterol sulfate and HFA - 134 a after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low in humans , but it is not known whether the components of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in animal studies and lack of experience with the use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Caution should be exercised when albuterol sulfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatrics The safety and effectiveness of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol in pediatric patients below the age of 4 years have not been established .
Geriatrics PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol has not been studied in a geriatric population .
As with other beta2 - agonists , special caution should be observed when using PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol in elderly patients who have concomitant cardiovascular disease that could be adversely affected by this class of drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction information concerning PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol is derived from a 12 - week , double - blind , double - dummy study which compared PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler , and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler in 565 asthmatic patients .
The following table lists the incidence of all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) from this study which occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol treatment group and more frequently in the PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol treatment group than in the placebo group .
Overall , the incidence and nature of the adverse reactions reported for PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler were comparable .
Adverse Experience Incidences ( % of patients ) in a Large 12 - week Clinical Trial * Body System / Adverse Event ( Preferred Term ) PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( N = 193 ) CFC 11 / 12 Propelled Albuterol Inhaler ( N = 186 ) HFA - 134 a Placebo Inhaler ( N = 186 ) * This table includes all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) which occurred at an incidence rate of at least 3 . 0 % in the PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol group and more frequently in the PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol group than in the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler group .
Application Site Disorders Inhalation Site Sensation 6 9 2 Inhalation Taste Sensation 4 3 3 Body as a Whole Allergic Reaction / Symptoms 6 4 < 1 Back Pain 4 2 3 Fever 6 2 5 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Tremor 7 8 2 Gastrointestinal System Nausea 10 9 5 Vomiting 7 2 3 Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorder Tachycardia 7 2 < 1 Psychiatric Disorders Nervousness 7 9 3 Respiratory System Disorders Respiratory Disorder ( unspecified ) 6 4 5 Rhinitis 16 22 14 Upper Resp Tract Infection 21 20 18 Urinary System Disorder Urinary Tract Infection 3 4 2 Adverse events reported by less than 3 % of the patients receiving PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , and by a greater proportion of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol patients than placebo patients , which have the potential to be related to PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol include : dysphonia , increased sweating , dry mouth , chest pain , edema , rigors , ataxia , leg cramps , hyperkinesia , eructation , flatulence , tinnitus , diabetes mellitus , anxiety , depression , somnolence , rash .
Palpitation and dizziness have also been observed with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Adverse events reported in a 4 - week pediatric clinical trial comparing PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol and a CFC 11 / 12 propelled albuterol inhaler occurred at a low incidence rate and were similar to those seen in the adult trials .
In small , cumulative dose studies , tremor , nervousness , and headache appeared to be dose related .
Rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , and oropharyngeal edema have been reported after the use of inhaled albuterol .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypertension , angina , vertigo , central nervous system stimulation , insomnia , headache , metabolic acidosis , and drying or irritation of the oropharynx .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and insomnia .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 6800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 3200 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 3000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 1400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of asthmatic symptoms , the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours .
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended .
In some patients , one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
Each actuation of PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) from the mouthpiece .
It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from the face .
Exercise Induced Bronchospasm Prevention : The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
To maintain proper use of this product , it is important that the mouthpiece be washed and dried thoroughly at least once a week .
The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and dried thoroughly ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients section ) .
Keeping the plastic mouthpiece clean is very important to prevent medication buildup and blockage .
The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and air dried thoroughly .
If the mouthpiece becomes blocked , washing the mouthpiece will remove the blockage .
If a previously effective dose regimen fails to provide the usual response , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
HOW SUPPLIED PROVENTIL ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol is supplied as a pressurized aluminum canister with a yellow plastic actuator and orange dust cap each in boxes of one .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
Canisters with a labeled net weight of 6 . 7 g contain 200 inhalations ( NDC 0085 - 1132 - 01 ) .
Rx only .
Store between 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
For best results , canister should be at room temperature before use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
The yellow actuator supplied with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol should not be used with any other product canisters , and actuator from other products should not be used with a PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol canister .
The correct amount of medication in each canister cannot be assured after 200 actuations , even though the canister is not completely empty .
The canister should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations have been used .
WARNING : Avoid spraying in eyes .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Keep out of reach of children .
PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC .
Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA Developed and Manufactured by : 3 M Health Care Limited Loughborough UK or 3 M Drug Delivery Systems Northridge , CA 91324 , USA Copyright © 1996 , 2011 , 2012 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
The trademarks depicted in this piece are owned by their respective companies .
653300 Rev . 07 / 18 Attention Health Care Professional : Detach Patient ' s Instructions for Use from package insert and dispense with the product .
PROVENTIL ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Patient ' s Instructions for Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 Before using your PROVENTIL ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol , read complete instructions carefully .
Children should use PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol under adult supervision , as instructed by the patient ' s doctor Please note that [ MULTIMEDIA ] indicates that this inhalation aerosol does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
• SHAKE THE INHALER WELL immediately before each use .
Then remove the cap from the mouthpiece ( see Figure 1 ) .
Check mouthpiece for foreign objects prior to use .
Make sure the canister is fully inserted into the actuator .
• As with all aerosol medications , it is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks .
Prime by releasing four “ test sprays ” into the air , away from your face .
• BREATHE OUT FULLY THROUGH THE MOUTH , expelling as much air from your lungs as possible .
Place the mouthpiece fully into the mouth , holding the inhaler in its upright position ( see Figure 2 ) and closing the lips around it .
• WHILE BREATHING IN DEEPLY AND SLOWLY THROUGH THE MOUTH , FULLY DEPRESS THE TOP OF THE METAL CANISTER with your index finger ( see Figure 2 ) .
• HOLD YOUR BREATH AS LONG AS POSSIBLE , up to 10 seconds .
Before breathing out , remove the inhaler from your mouth and release your finger from the canister .
• If your physician has prescribed additional puffs , wait 1 minute , shake the inhaler again , and repeat steps 3 through 5 .
Replace the cap after use .
• • • KEEPING THE PLASTIC MOUTHPIECE CLEAN IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO PREVENT MEDICATION BUILDUP AND BLOCKAGE .
THE MOUTHPIECE SHOULD BE WASHED , SHAKEN TO REMOVE EXCESS WATER , AND AIR DRIED THOROUGHLY AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK .
INHALER MAY STOP SPRAYING IF NOT PROPERLY CLEANED .
Routine cleaning instructions : Step 1 .
To clean , remove the canister and mouthpiece cap .
Wash the mouthpiece through the top and bottom with warm running water for 30 seconds at least once a week ( see Figure A ) .
Never immerse the metal canister in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Wash mouthpiece under warm running water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Allow mouthpiece to air dry , such as overnight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C When blocked , little or no medicine comes out .
Step 2 .
To dry , shake off excess water and let the mouthpiece air dry thoroughly , such as overnight ( see Figure B ) .
When the mouthpiece is dry , replace the canister and the mouthpiece cap .
Blockage from medication buildup is more likely to occur if the mouthpiece is not allowed to air dry thoroughly .
IF YOUR INHALER HAS BECOME BLOCKED ( little or no medication coming out of the mouthpiece , see Figure C ) , wash the mouthpiece as described in Step 1 and air dry thoroughly as described in Step 2 .
IF YOU NEED TO USE YOUR INHALER BEFORE IT IS COMPLETELY DRY , SHAKE OFF EXCESS WATER , replace the canister , and test spray twice into the air , away from your face , to remove most of the water remaining in the mouthpiece .
Then take your dose as prescribed .
After such use , rewash and air dry thoroughly as described in Steps 1 and 2 .
• The correct amount of medication in each inhalation cannot be assured after 200 actuations , even though the canister is not completely empty .
The canister should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations have been used .
Before you reach the specific number of actuations , you should consult your physician to determine whether a refill is needed .
Just as you should not take extra doses without consulting your physician , you also should not stop using PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
You may notice a slightly different taste or spray force than you are used to with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , compared to other albuterol inhalation aerosol products .
DOSAGE : Use only as directed by your physician .
WARNINGS : The action of PROVENTIL ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the number of puffs or frequency of doses of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , medical attention should be sought immediately .
While you are taking PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol , other inhaled drugs should be taken only as directed by your physician .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about the use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Common adverse effects of treatment with PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
Effective and safe use of PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Use PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol only with the yellow actuator supplied with the product .
The PROVENTIL HFA Inhalation Aerosol actuator should not be used with other aerosol medications .
For best results , use at room temperature .
Avoid exposing product to extreme heat and cold .
Shake well before use .
Contents Under Pressure .
Do not puncture .
Do not store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw container into fire or incinerator .
Store between 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Further Information : Your PROVENTIL ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
Instead , the inhaler contains a hydrofluoroalkane ( HFA - 134 a ) as the propellant .
Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC .
Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA Developed and Manufactured by : 3 M Health Care Limited Loughborough UK or 3 M Drug Delivery Systems Northridge , CA 91324 , USA Rev . 12 / 14 Copyright © 1996 , 2011 , 2012 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
653300 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Trade Canister Label NDC 0085 - 1132 - 01 PROVENTIL ® HFA ( Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ) FOR ORAL INHALATION WITH PROVENTIL ® HFA ACTUATOR ONLY Rx only 200 METERED INHALATIONS NET CONTENTS 6 . 7 g Manuf .
for Merck , Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a sub .
of MERCK & CO . , INC Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Trade Carton Label NDC 0085 - 1132 - 01 PROVENTIL ® HFA ( Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol ) FOR ORAL INHALATION WITH PROVENTIL ® HFA ACTUATOR ONLY Rx only 200 METERED INHALATIONS NET CONTENTS 6 . 7 g CONTAINS NO CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS [ CFCs ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
