1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Doxercalciferol injection is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in adult patients with CKD on dialysis .
Doxercalciferol is a synthetic vitamin D2 analog : • Doxercalciferol injection is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in adult patients with CKD on dialysis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Before initiating treatment , ensure serum calcium is not above the upper limit of normal .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage for doxercalciferol injection in patients with CKD on dialysis : Initiate dosing at 4 mcg by bolus intravenous administration three times weekly at the end of dialysis ( no more frequently than every other day ) .
Maximum dose is 18 mcg weekly .
( 2 . 4 ) • Target the maintenance dose of doxercalciferol to intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits .
( 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for dose titration , laboratory monitoring , and important administration instructions .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Prior to Initiation of Doxercalciferol Injection • Ensure serum calcium is not above the upper limit of normal before initiating treatment with doxercalciferol injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Important Administration Instructions for Doxercalciferol Injection • Administer doxercalciferol injection intravenously as a bolus dose at the end of dialysis .
• Inspect doxercalciferol injection visually prior to administration ; the solution should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use if the solution is not clear or particles are present .
• After initial vial use : • discard unused portion of the single - dose vial ; • store opened multiple - dose vial for up to 3 days at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Discard unused portion of multiple - dose vial after 3 days [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage Recommendations for Doxercalciferol Injection in Patients with CKD on Dialysis • Initiate doxercalciferol injection at a dose of 4 mcg given by bolus intravenous administration three times weekly at the end of dialysis ( no more frequently than every other day ) .
• Target the maintenance dose of doxercalciferol to intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels within the desired therapeutic range and serum calcium within normal limits .
• Monitor serum calcium , phosphorus , and intact PTH levels weekly after initiation of therapy or dose adjustment .
• Titrate the dose of doxercalciferol injection based on intact PTH .
The dose may be increased at 8 - week intervals by 1 mcg to 2 mcg if intact PTH is not lowered by 50 % and fails to reach the target range .
The maximum dose is 18 mcg weekly .
Prior to raising the dose , ensure serum calcium is within normal limits .
• Suspend or decrease the dose if intact PTH is persistently and abnormally low to reduce the risk of adynamic bone disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] or if serum calcium is consistently above the normal range to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If suspended , the drug should be restarted one week later at a dose that is at least 1 mcg lower .
2 . 6 Drug Interactions that May Require Dosage Adjustments of Doxercalciferol • Increased monitoring of serum calcium and dose adjustment of doxercalciferol may be necessary when given concomitantly with drugs that may increase the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Increased monitoring of both serum calcium and intact PTH as well as dose adjustment of doxercalciferol may be necessary when given concomitantly with cytochrome P450 inhibitors or enzyme inducers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Doxercalciferol Injection is a sterile , clear , colorless aqueous solution available as follows : • 4 mcg / 2 mL ( 2 mcg / mL ) multiple - dose vial • Injection : ( 3 ) • 4 mcg / 2 mL ( 2 mcg / mL ) multiple - dose vial 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxercalciferol is contraindicated in patients with : • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vitamin D toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to doxercalciferol or any of the inactive ingredients of doxercalciferol injection ; serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypercalcemia ( 4 ) • Vitamin D toxicity ( 4 ) • Know hypersensitivity to doxercalciferol or any of the inactive ingredients of doxercalciferol injection ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercalcemia : Can occur during treatment with doxercalciferol and can lead to cardiac arrhythmias and seizures .
Severe hypercalcemia may require emergency attention .
Risk may be increased when used concomitantly with high dose calcium preparations , thiazide diuretics , or vitamin D compounds .
Monitor serum calcium prior to initiation and during treatment and adjust dose accordingly .
( 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Digitalis Toxicity : Hypercalcemia increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using digitalis compounds , monitor serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity .
Increase frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of doxercalciferol .
( 5 . 2 ) • Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions : Anaphylaxis , with symptoms of angioedema , hypotension , unresponsiveness , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , and cardiopulmonary arrest , has been reported in hemodialysis patients after administration of doxercalciferol .
Monitor patients upon treatment initiation for hypersensitivity reactions .
Should a reaction occur , discontinue and treat .
( 5 . 3 ) • Adynamic Bone Disease : May develop and increase risk of fractures if intact PTH levels are suppressed to abnormally low levels .
Monitor intact PTH levels to avoid oversuppression and adjust dose if needed .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia may occur during doxercalciferol treatment .
Acute hypercalcemia may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the effect of digitalis on the heart [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Severe hypercalcemia may require emergency attention .
Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration of high doses of calcium - containing preparations , thiazide diuretics , or other vitamin D compounds [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
In addition , high intake of calcium and phosphate concomitantly with vitamin D compounds may lead to hypercalciuria and hyperphosphatemia .
Patients with a history of hypercalcemia prior to initiating therapy may be at increased risk for development of hypercalcemia with doxercalciferol .
In these circumstances , frequent serum calcium monitoring and doxercalciferol dose adjustments may be required .
When initiating doxercalciferol or adjusting doxercalciferol dose , measure serum calcium frequently ( weekly in patients with CKD on dialysis or every 2 weeks for patients with stage 3 or 4 CKD ) .
Once a maintenance dose has been established , measure serum calcium monthly for 3 months and then every 3 months .
If hypercalcemia occurs , reduce the dose or discontinue doxercalciferol until serum calcium is normal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Inform patients about the symptoms of elevated calcium ( feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) and instruct them to report new or worsening symptoms when they occur .
5 . 2 Digitalis Toxicity Doxercalciferol can cause hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] which increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using doxercalciferol concomitantly with digitalis compounds , monitor both serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity .
Increase the frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of doxercalciferol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including fatal outcome , have been reported post marketing in patients on hemodialysis following administration of doxercalciferol injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis with symptoms of angioedema ( involving face , lips , tongue and airways ) , hypotension , unresponsiveness , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , and cardiopulmonary arrest .
These reactions may occur separately or together .
Monitor patients receiving doxercalciferol upon initiation of treatment for hypersensitivity reactions .
Should a hypersensitivity reaction occur , discontinue doxercalciferol , monitor and treat if indicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Adynamic Bone Disease Adynamic bone disease with subsequent increased risk of fractures may develop if intact PTH levels are suppressed by doxercalciferol to abnormally low levels .
Monitor intact PTH levels to avoid oversuppression and adjust the doxercalciferol dose , if needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in another section of the label : • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Adynamic Bone Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions in patients with Stage 3 or 4 CKD ( incidence > 5 % ) were infection , urinary tract infection , chest pain , angina pectoris , constipation , dyspepsia , anemia , leucopenia , dehydration , edema , depression , hypertonia , insomnia , asthenia , paresthesia , cough increased , dyspnea , pruritus , sinusitis , and rhinitis .
( 6 . 1 ) The most common adverse reactions in patients with CKD on dialysis ( incidence > 5 % ) were headache , malaise , edema , nausea / vomiting , dyspnea , dizziness , pruritus , and bradycardia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceutical Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Doxercalciferol Injection Adverse reactions in patients with CKD on hemodialysis Doxercalciferol injection has been studied in 70 patients with CKD on hemodialysis in two 12 - week , open - label , single - arm , multicenter studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
The incidence of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia increased during therapy with doxercalciferol injection .
Patients with higher pretreatment serum levels of calcium ( > 10 . 5 mg / dL ) or phosphorus ( > 6 . 9 mg / dL ) were more likely to experience hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia .
There was no placebo group included in the studies of doxercalciferol injection .
Adverse reactions in patients with CKD on hemodialysis receiving doxercalciferol injection are expected to be similar to those reported in placebo - controlled studies of HECTOROL $ capsules presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in 2 % HECTOROL $ Capsule - Treated Patients with CKD on Dialysis and Greater than Placebo in Two Double - Blind Clinical Studies * A patient who reported the same medical term more than once was counted only once for that medical term .
Adverse Reaction * HECTOROL $ ( n = 61 ) % Placebo ( n = 61 ) % Edema 34 21 Malaise 28 20 Headache 28 18 Nausea / Vomiting 21 20 Dizziness 12 10 Dyspnea 12 7 Pruritus 8 7 Bradycardia 7 5 Anorexia 5 3 Dyspepsia 5 2 Arthralgia 5 0 Weight increase 5 0 Abscess 3 0 Sleep disorder 3 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of doxercalciferol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity reactions , including fatal outcome , have been reported in patients on hemodialysis following administration of doxercalciferol injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis with symptoms of angioedema ( involving face , lips , tongue and airways ) , hypotension , unresponsiveness , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , cardiopulmonary arrest , pruritus , and skin burning sensation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 include clinically significant drug interactions with doxercalciferol .
Table 3 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Doxercalciferol Injection Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypercalcemia Clinical Impact Concomitant administration of high doses of calcium - containing preparations or other vitamin D compounds may increase the risk of hypercalcemia .
Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing excretion of calcium in the urine .
Examples Calcium - containing products , other vitamin D compounds or thiazide diuretics Intervention Monitor serum calcium concentrations more frequently and adjust doxercalciferol dose as needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Digitalis Compounds Clinical .
Impact Doxercalciferol can cause hypercalcemia which can potentiate the risk of digitalis toxicity .
Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity and increase frequency of serum calcium monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of doxercalciferol in patients receiving digitalis compounds [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors ClinicalImpact Doxercalciferol is activated by CYP 27 in the liver .
Cytochrome P450 inhibitors may inhibit the 25 - hydroxylation of doxercalciferol and thus reduce the formation of active doxercalciferol moiety [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Examples Ketoconazole and erythromycin Intervention If a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a cytochrome P450 inhibitor , dose adjustment of doxercalciferol may be necessary .
Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely .
Enzyme Inducers ClinicalImpact Doxercalciferol is activated by CYP 27 in the liver .
Enzyme inducers may affect the 25 - hydroxylation of doxercalciferol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Examples Glutethimide and phenobarbital Intervention If a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with an enzyme inducer , dose adjustment of doxercalciferol may be necessary .
Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely .
Magnesium - containing Products ClinicalImpact Concomitant administration of doxercalciferol and high doses of magnesium - containing products may increase the risk of hypermagnesemia .
Examples Magnesium - containing products such as antacids Intervention Avoid use of magnesium - containing products and doxercalciferol in patients on chronic renal dialysis .
• Cytochrome P450 inhibitors : Formation of the active doxercalciferol moiety may be hindered and may necessitate dosage adjustment .
Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely .
( 7 ) • Enzyme inducers : Formation of the active doxercalciferol moiety may be affected and may necessitate dosage adjustment .
Monitor intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations closely .
( 7 ) • Magnesium - containing products : Combined use may cause hypermagnesemia .
Monitor serum magnesium concentrations more frequently and adjust dose as needed .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with doxercalciferol in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with chronic kidney disease in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In reproduction studies in rats and rabbits administered doxercalciferol during organogenesis at up to 20 mcg / kg / day and 0 . 1 mcg / kg / day , respectively ( approximately 25 times ( rats ) and less than ( rabbits ) the maximum recommended human oral dose of 60 mcg / week based on mcg / m2 body surface area ) , no adverse developmental effects were observed [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Chronic kidney disease in pregnancy increases the risk for maternal hypertension and preeclampsia , miscarriage , preterm delivery polyhydramnios , stillbirth , and low - birth - weight infants .
Data Animal data There were no adverse effects on fetal development when doxercalciferol was administered at doses up to 20 mcg / kg / day in pregnant rats or doses up to 0 . 1 mcg / kg / day in pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of doxercalciferol in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Infants exposed to doxercalciferol through breast milk should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for doxercalciferol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from doxercalciferol or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to doxercalciferol injection through breast milk should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia , including seizures , vomiting , constipation and weight loss .
Monitoring of serum calcium in the infant should be considered .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of doxercalciferol in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of doxercalciferol did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years or over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment may not metabolize doxercalciferol appropriately .
More frequent monitoring of intact PTH , calcium , and phosphorus levels should be done in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of doxercalciferol may lead to hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hyperphosphatemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The treatment of acute overdosage should consist of supportive measures and discontinuation of doxercalciferol administration .
Serum calcium levels should be measured until normal .
Based on similarities between doxercalciferol and its active metabolite , 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 , it is expected that doxercalciferol is not removed from the blood by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Doxercalciferol Injection contains doxercalciferol , which is a synthetic vitamin D2 analog .
Doxercalciferol undergoes metabolic activation in vivo to form 1α , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D2 ( 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 ) , a naturally occurring , biologically active form of vitamin D2 .
Doxercalciferol USP is a white to off white powder with a calculated molecular weight of 412 . 65 and a molecular formula of C28H44O2 .
It is practically insoluble in water over a pH range of 1 to 7 . 5 .
Doxercalciferol is soluble in methanol and ethyl acetate .
Chemically , doxercalciferol is ( 1α , 3β , 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E ) - 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1 , 3 diol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxercalciferol Injection is supplied as a multi - dose injection contained within a stoppered 2 mL amber glass vial containing 4 mcg / 2 mL .
Each vial includes an aluminum seal and an orange plastic flip - off cap .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of solution contains doxercalciferol USP , 2 mcg ; butylated hydroxytoluene NF , 0 . 02 mg ; dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate USP , 14 . 4 mg ; edetate disodium anhydrous USP , 1 . 1 mg ; ethanol absolute ( dehydrated alcohol ) 100 % USP , 0 . 075 mL ; monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate USP , 1 . 8 mg ; sodium chloride USP , 1 . 5 mg ; super refined polysorbate 20 NF , 10 mg and water for injection USP , qs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Doxercalciferol is a synthetic vitamin D2 analog that requires metabolic activation to form the active1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 metabolite , which binds to the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) to result in the selective activation of vitamin D responsive pathways .
Vitamin D and doxercalciferol have been shown to reduce PTH levels by inhibiting PTH synthesis and secretion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In healthy volunteers , peak blood levels of 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 , the major metabolite of doxercalciferol , are attained at 8 hours after a single intravenous dose of doxercalciferol and at 11 to 12 hours following capsule doses .
Elimination The mean elimination half - life of 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 after an oral dose is approximately 32 to 37 hours with a range of up to 96 hours .
Metabolism Doxercalciferol is activated by CYP 27 in the liver to form 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 ( major metabolite ) and 1α , 24 - dihydroxyvitamin D2 ( minor metabolite ) .
Activation of doxercalciferol does not require the involvement of the kidneys .
Specific Populations Patients with renal impairment The mean elimination half - life of 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 in patients with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) and in healthy volunteers appears to be similar following an oral dose .
Hemodialysis causes a temporary increase in 1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 mean concentrations , presumably due to volume contraction .
1α , 25 - ( OH ) 2D2 is not removed from blood during hemodialysis .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats , there was an increased incidence of benign and malignant adrenal pheochromocytomas in both males and females at oral doses of 0 . 04 , 0 . 13 , and 0 . 39 mcg / kg / day ( less than the maximum recommended human oral dose of 60 mcg / week based on mcg / m2 body surface area ) .
This increased incidence of pheochromocytomas in rats may be due to altered calcium homeostasis by doxercalciferol .
No evidence of genetic toxicity was observed in an in vitro bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Ames test ) or a mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay .
Doxercalciferol caused structural chromatid and chromosome aberrations in an in vitro human lymphocyte clastogenicity assay with metabolic activation .
However , doxercalciferol was negative in an in vivo mouse micronucleus clastogenicity assay .
Doxercalciferol had no effect on male or female fertility in rats at oral doses up to 2 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 60 mcg / week based on mcg / m2 body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 3 Clinical Studies of Doxercalciferol Injection in Patients with CKD on Dialysis The safety and effectiveness of doxercalciferol injection were evaluated in two open - label , single - arm , multicenter clinical studies ( Study C and Study D ) in a total of 70 patients with CKD on hemodialysis .
Patients in Study C were an average age of 54 years ( range : 23 to 73 ) , were 50 % male , and were 61 % African - American , 25 % Caucasian , and 14 % Hispanic , and had been on hemodialysis for an average of 65 months .
Patients in Study D were an average age of 51 years ( range : 28 to 76 ) , were 48 % male , and 100 % African - American and had been on hemodialysis for an average of 61 months .
This group of 70 of the 138 patients who had been treated with doxercalciferol capsules in prior clinical studies ( Study A and Study B ) received doxercalciferol injection in an open - label fashion for 12 weeks following an 8 - week washout ( control ) period .
Dosing of doxercalciferol injection was initiated at the rate of 4 mcg administered at the end of each dialysis session ( 3 times weekly ) for a total of 12 mcg per week .
The dosage of doxercalciferol was adjusted to achieve intact PTH levels ( measured weekly ) within a targeted range of 150 pg / mL to 300 pg / mL .
The dosage was increased by 2 mcg per dialysis session after 8 weeks of treatment if the intact PTH levels remained above 300 pg / mL and were greater than 50 % of baseline levels .
The maximum dosage was limited to 18 mcg per week .
If at any time during the study intact PTH fell below 150 pg / mL , doxercalciferol injection was immediately suspended and restarted at a lower dosage the following week .
Mean weekly doses ranged from ranged from 9 mcg to 13 mcg in Study C and ranged from 9 mcg to 12 mcg in Study D . Fifty - two ( 74 % ) of the 70 patients who were treated with doxercalciferol injection achieved intact PTH levels ≤ 300 pg / mL .
Forty - one ( 59 % ) of these patients exhibited plasma intact PTH levels ≤ 300 pg / mL on at least 3 occasions .
Thirty - six ( 51 % ) patients had plasma intact PTH levels < 150 pg / mL on at least one occasion during study participation .
Decreases in plasma intact PTH from baseline values were calculated using as baseline the average of the last 3 values obtained during the 8 - week washout period and are displayed in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Intact PTH Summary Data for Patients with CKD on Dialysis Receiving Doxercalciferol Injection in Studies C and D * Values were carried forward for the two patients on study for 10 weeks † Treatment intact PTH minus baseline intact PTH ‡ Wilcoxon one - sample test Intact PTH Level Study C ( n = 28 ) Study D ( n = 42 ) Combined Protocols ( n = 70 ) Baseline ( Mean of Weeks - 2 , - 1 , and 0 ) Mean ( SE ) 698 ( 60 ) 762 ( 65 ) 736 ( 46 ) Median 562 648 634 On - treatment ( Week 12 * ) Mean ( SE ) 406 ( 63 ) 426 ( 60 ) 418 ( 43 ) Median 311 292 292 Change from Baseline † Mean ( SE ) - 292 ( 55 ) - 336 ( 41 ) - 318 ( 33 ) Median - 274 - 315 - 304 P - value ‡ 0 . 004 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Doxercalciferol treatment resulted in at least 30 % reduction from baseline in mean intact PTH levels during the 12 - week open - label treatment period in more than 92 % of the 70 treated patients .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Doxercalciferol injection is a sterile , clear , colorless aqueous solution supplied in multi - dose amber glass vials containing 4 mcg doxercalciferol in 2 mL of solution as follows .
The closure consists of a fluorocarbon - coated bromobutyl stopper , with an aluminum seal and an orange plastic flip - off cap .
Total Strength per Total Volume Strength per mL Flip - off Cap Color Vial Count per Carton × Total Vial Volume and Vial Type Carton NDC Vial NDC 4 mcg / 2 mL 2 mcg / mL Orange 10 × 2 mL multiple - dose vials 68180 - 718 - 12 68180 - 718 - 01 50 × 2 mL multiple - dose vials 68180 - 718 - 52 68180 - 718 - 01 Storageand Handling Dosage Form Storage temperature Excursions permitted to In - use storage Multiple - dose vial [ 1 ] 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) , Discard 3 days after opening [ 1 ] Protect from light .
Store unopened vial in original carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypercalcemia Advise patients to contact a health care provider if they develop symptoms of elevated calcium ( e . g . feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions can occur with doxercalciferol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Monitoring Inform patients that they will need routine monitoring of laboratory parameters such as calcium and intact PTH while receiving doxercalciferol .
Inform patients that more frequent monitoring is necessary during the initiation of therapy , following dose changes or when potentially interacting medications are started or discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their physician of all medications , including prescription and nonprescription drugs , and supplements they are taking .
Advise patients to also inform their physician that they are receiving doxercalciferol if a new medication is prescribed [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
$ The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its products .
Manufactured For : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States .
Revised : July 2019 ID : 258369 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Doxercalciferol Injection , 4 mcg / 2 mL 2 mL Multi - dose Vial Label NDC 68180 - 718 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxercalciferol Injection , 4 mcg / 2 mL Carton Label - 2 mL Multi - dose Vials in Package of 50 NDC 68180 - 718 - 52 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
