Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN DESCRIPTION Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % contains the synthetic antifungal agent , ciclopirox .
Each gram ( equivalent to 0 . 96 mL ) of Ciclopirox Shampoo contains 10 mg ciclopirox in a shampoo base consisting of disodium laureth sulfosuccinate , laureth - 2 , purified water USP , sodium chloride USP and sodium laureth sulfate .
Ciclopirox Shampoo is a colorless to yellowish , translucent solution .
The chemical name for ciclopirox is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , with the empirical formula C12H17NO2 and a molecular weight of 207 . 27 .
The CAS Registry Number is [ 29342 - 05 - 0 ] .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ciclopirox is a hydroxypyridone antifungal agent although the relevance of this property for the indication of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
Ciclopirox acts by chelation of polyvalent cations ( Fe3 + or Al3 + ) , resulting in the inhibition of the metal - dependent enzymes that are responsible for the degradation of peroxides within the fungal cell .
Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics In a study in patients with seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , application of 5 mL ciclopirox shampoo 1 % twice weekly for 4 weeks , with an exposure time of 3 minutes per application , resulted in detectable serum concentrations of ciclopirox in 6 out of 18 patients .
The serum concentrations measured throughout the dosing interval on Days 1 and 29 ranged from 10 . 3 ng / mL to 13 . 2 ng / mL .
Total urinary excretion of ciclopirox was less than 0 . 5 % of the administered dose .
CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , double - blind clinical trials , patients 16 years and older with seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp applied Ciclopirox Shampoo or its vehicle two times per week for 4 weeks .
Patients who were immunocompromised , those with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , women of childbearing potential not using adequate contraception , and pregnant or lactating women were excluded from the clinical studies .
An evaluation of the overall status of the seborrheic dermatitis , and the presence and severity of erythema or inflammation , and scaling , was made at week 4 , using a scale of 0 = none , 1 = slight , 2 = mild , 3 = moderate , 4 = pronounced , and 5 = severe .
Effective treatment was defined as achieving a score of 0 ( or a score of 1 if the baseline score was ≥ 3 ) simultaneously for status of the seborrheic dermatitis , erythema or inflammation , and scaling at Week 4 .
Ciclopirox shampoo was shown to be statistically significantly more effective than vehicle in both studies .
Efficacy results for the two studies are presented in the following table .
Effective Treatment Rates at Week 4 in Studies 1 and 2 Ciclopirox Shampoo Vehicle Study 1 220 / 380 ( 58 % ) 60 / 192 ( 31 % ) Study 2 65 / 250 ( 26 % ) 32 / 249 ( 13 % ) Efficacy for black patients was not demonstrated , although only 53 black patients were enrolled in the two pivotal studies .
Microbiology Ciclopirox is fungicidal in vitro against Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum spp . )
, P . ovale , and P . orbiculare .
Ciclopirox acts by chelation of polyvalent cations ( Fe3 + or Al3 + ) , resulting in the inhibition of the metal - dependent enzymes that are responsible for the degradation of peroxides within the fungal cell .
The clinical significance of antifungal activity in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciclopirox Shampoo is indicated for the topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp in adults .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciclopirox Shampoo is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Ciclopirox Shampoo is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or irritation should occur with the use of Ciclopirox Shampoo , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Contact of Ciclopirox Shampoo with the eyes should be avoided .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Seborrheic dermatitis may appear at puberty , however , no clinical studies have been done in patients younger than 16 years .
In patients with lighter hair color , hair discoloration has been rarely reported .
There is no relevant clinical experience with patients who have a history of immunosuppression ( e . g . , extensive , persistent , or unusual distribution of dermatomycoses , recent or recurring herpes zoster , or persistent herpes simplex ) , who are immunocompromised ( e . g . , HIV - infected patients and transplant patients ) , or who have a diabetic neuropathy .
Information for Patients The patient should be instructed to : • Use Ciclopirox Shampoo as directed by the physician .
Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Ciclopirox Shampoo is for external use on the scalp only .
Do not swallow .
• Use the medication for seborrheic dermatitis for the full treatment time even though symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 4 weeks .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing ) indicative of possible allergic reaction .
• Not use the medication for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Ciclopirox Shampoo or ciclopirox .
The following in vitro genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox : evaluation of gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella and E . coli assays ( negative ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells in the presence of supplemental Fe3 + , with and without metabolic activation ( negative ) ; gene mutation assays in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay in A549 human cells ) ( negative ) .
An in vitro cell transformation assay in BALB / c 3T3 cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese hamster bone marrow cytogenetic assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at a dosage of 5000 mg / kg body weight .
A combined oral fertility and embryofetal developmental study was conducted in rats with ciclopirox olamine .
No effect on fertility or reproductive performance was noted at the highest dose tested of 3 . 85 mg / kg / day ciclopirox ( approximately 1 . 3 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category B Oral embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys .
Ciclopirox or ciclopirox olamine was orally administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 77 , 125 , 80 and 38 . 5 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys , respectively ( approximately 13 , 42 , 54 and 26 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Dermal embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with ciclopirox olamine dissolved in PEG 400 .
Ciclopirox olamine was topically administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 92 mg / kg / day and 77 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in rats and rabbits , respectively ( approximately 31 and 54 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies of topically applied ciclopirox in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Ciclopirox Shampoo should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Ciclopirox Shampoo is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Seborrheic dermatitis may appear at puberty , however , no clinical studies have been done in patients younger than 16 years .
Geriatric Use In clinical studies , the safety and tolerability of Ciclopirox Shampoo in the population 65 years and older was comparable to that of younger subjects .
Results of the efficacy analysis in those patients 65 years and older showed effectiveness in 25 of 85 ( 29 % ) patients treated with Ciclopirox Shampoo , and in 15 of 61 ( 25 % ) patients treated with the vehicle ; due to the small sample size , a statistically significant difference was not demonstrated .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity to adverse effects in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 626 patients treated with Ciclopirox Shampoo twice weekly in the two pivotal clinical studies , the most frequent adverse events were increased itching in 1 % of patients , and application site reactions , such as burning , erythema , and itching , also in 1 % of patients .
Other adverse events occurred in individual patients only .
Adverse events that led to early study medication termination in clinical trials occurred in 1 . 5 % ( 26 / 1738 ) of patients treated with Ciclopirox Shampoo and 2 . 0 % ( 12 / 661 ) of patients treated with shampoo vehicle .
The most common adverse events leading to termination of study medication in either group was seborrhea .
In the Ciclopirox Shampoo group , other adverse events included rash , pruritus , headache , ventricular tachycardia , and skin disorder .
In the shampoo vehicle group , other adverse events included skin disorder and rash .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wet hair and apply approximately 1 teaspoon ( 5 mL ) of Ciclopirox Shampoo to the scalp .
Up to 2 teaspoons ( 10 mL ) may be used for long hair .
Lather and leave on hair and scalp for 3 minutes .
A timer may be used .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Rinse off .
Treatment should be repeated twice per week for 4 weeks , with a minimum of 3 days between applications .
If a patient with seborrheic dermatitis shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment with Ciclopirox Shampoo , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
HOW SUPPLIED Ciclopirox Shampoo , 1 % is supplied in 120 mL plastic bottles ( NDC 51672 - 1351 - 8 ) .
Discard unused product after initial treatment duration .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
By : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
By : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Issued : September , 2008 PPK - 6006 - 0 266 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mL Carton 120 mL NDC 51672 - 1351 - 8 Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children This package is not child resistant Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
