1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PHEXXI is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in females of reproductive potential for use as an on - demand method of contraception .
PHEXXI is a combination of lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in females of reproductive potential for use as an on - demand method of contraception .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : PHEXXI is not effective for the prevention of pregnancy when administered after intercourse .
Limitations of Use PHEXXI is not effective for the prevention of pregnancy when administered after intercourse [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer one ( 1 ) pre - filled single - dose applicator of PHEXXI ( 5 grams ) vaginally immediately before ( or up to one hour before ) each episode of vaginal intercourse ( 2 . 1 ) • May use during any part of the menstrual cycle ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Administer one pre - filled applicator of PHEXXI ( 5 grams ) vaginally immediately before or up to one hour before each act of vaginal intercourse .
If more than one act of vaginal intercourse occurs within one hour , an additional dose must be applied .
Five grams of PHEXXI contains 90 mg of lactic acid , 50 mg of citric acid , and 20 mg of potassium bitartrate .
2 . 2 Timing of PHEXXI Use May use PHEXXI during any part of the menstrual cycle .
May use PHEXXI as soon as it is safe to resume vaginal intercourse after childbirth , abortion , or miscarriage .
2 . 3 Use of PHEXXI with Other Contraceptive Methods PHEXXI may be used concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives ; latex , polyurethane , and polyisoprene condoms ; and vaginal diaphragms .
Avoid PHEXXI use with vaginal rings .
2 . 4 Use of PHEXXI with Other Vaginal Products PHEXXI may be used concomitantly with other products for vaginal infections including miconazole , metronidazole , and tioconazole .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vaginal gel : 18 mg of lactic acid , 10 mg of citric acid , and 4 mg of potassium bitartrate in each gram ( 1 . 8 % , 1 % , and 0 . 4 % , respectively ) of off - white to tan color gel supplied in a pre - filled single - dose ( 5 grams ) vaginal applicator Each pre - filled single - dose vaginal applicator delivers 5 grams of gel containing lactic acid ( 1 . 8 % ) , citric acid ( 1 % ) , and potassium bitartrate ( 0 . 4 % ) .
( 3 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cystitis and Pyelonephritis : Avoid use in women with a history of recurrent UTI or urinary tract abnormalities ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Cystitis and Pyelonephritis Among 2804 subjects who received PHEXXI in Studies 1 and 2 , 0 . 36 % ( n = 10 ) reported adverse reactions of cystitis , pyelonephritis , or other upper urinary tract infection ( UTI ) .
Of these , one case of pyelonephritis was considered serious and required hospitalization .
Avoid use of PHEXXI in females of reproductive potential with a history of recurrent urinary tract infection or urinary tract abnormalities .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Cystitis and Pyelonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) were vulvovaginal burning sensation , vulvovaginal pruritus , vulvovaginal mycotic infection , urinary tract infection , vulvovaginal discomfort , bacterial vaginosis , vaginal discharge , genital discomfort , dysuria , and vulvovaginal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Evofem at toll - free phone 1 - 833 - EVFMBIO or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of PHEXXI ( pre - filled applicator with 5 - gram dose ) has been evaluated in two clinical trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) in 2804 subjects ( over 19 , 000 cycles of exposure ) .
The racial / ethnic distribution was 66 % White , 27 % Black or African American , 2 % Asian , 1 % American Indian or Alaska Native , 0 . 3 % Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander , and 5 % other ; 32 % of the study population was Hispanic .
Study 1 included a one - year extension phase where 342 U . S . subjects were exposed to PHEXXI for 13 cycles .
Hypersensitivity Reaction Of the 2804 PHEXXI - treated subjects in Studies 1 and 2 , one subject reported a suspected drug hypersensitivity .
Avoid PHEXXI use in females of reproductive potential with suspected hypersensitivity to the ingredients in PHEXXI .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in the U . S . population in Studies 1 and 2 ( n = 2480 ) were : vulvovaginal burning sensation ( 18 . 0 % ) and vulvovaginal pruritus ( 14 . 5 % ) .
The majority of these adverse reactions were mild and few led to discontinuation .
Table 1 summarizes the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) reported by subjects using PHEXXI in the U . S . Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions that Occurred in ≥ 2 % of Subjects Who Used PHEXXI to Prevent Pregnancy ( Studies 1 and 2 – U . S . population only ) Adverse Reaction PHEXXI ( N = 2480 ) ( % ) Vulvovaginal Burning Sensation 18 . 0 Vulvovaginal Pruritus 14 . 5 Vulvovaginal Mycotic Infection [ 1 ] 9 . 1 Urinary Tract Infection [ 2 ] [ 3 ] 9 . 0 Vulvovaginal Discomfort 9 . 0 Bacterial Vaginosis 8 . 4 Vaginal Discharge 5 . 5 Genital Discomfort 4 . 1 Dysuria 3 . 1 Vulvovaginal pain 2 . 1 [ 1 ] Includes preferred terms ( PT ) vulvovaginal mycotic infection and vulvovaginal candidiasis .
[ 2 ] Includes PTs urinary tract infection , streptococcal urinary tract infection , Escherichia urinary tract infection , and urinary tract infection bacterial .
[ 3 ] Does not include PTs cystitis , kidney infection , and pyelonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Among subjects who used PHEXXI in Studies 1 and 2 , 1 . 6 % discontinued from the clinical trials due to an adverse reaction .
The most common adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation were vulvovaginal burning sensation ( 0 . 7 % ) ; and vulvovaginal pruritus and vulvovaginal discomfort ( 0 . 1 % each ) .
Adverse Reactions in Male Partners Among male partners of subjects who used PHEXXI for contraception in Study 2 , 9 . 8 % ( 131 of 1330 ) reported symptoms of local discomfort ( burning , itching , pain , and " other " ) .
Of these local discomfort symptoms , 74 . 7 % were mild , 21 . 4 % were moderate , and 3 . 9 % were severe .
Two subjects discontinued participation in the study due to male partner symptoms .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no use for PHEXXI in pregnancy ; therefore , discontinue PHEXXI during pregnancy .
There are no data with the use of PHEXXI in pregnant women or animals .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate or their metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PHEXXI have been established in females of reproductive potential .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for post - menarchal females under the age of 17 as for users 17 years and older .
The use of PHEXXI before menarche is not indicated .
11 DESCRIPTION PHEXXI ( lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate ) is a vaginal gel .
PHEXXI is an off - white to tan in color gel of uniform consistency , containing three active ingredients : lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate .
The structural formula for lactic acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lactic acid is designated chemically as 2 - hydroxypropanoic acid with an empirical formula of C3H6O3 and a molecular weight of 90 . 08 g / mol .
The structural formula for citric acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Citric acid is designated chemically as 2 - hydroxypropane - 1 , 2 , 3 - tricarboxylic acid with an empirical formula of C6H8O7 and a molecular weight of 192 . 124 g / mol .
The structural formula for potassium bitartrate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium bitartrate is designated chemically as potassium ; ( 2 R , 3 R ) - 2 , 3 , 4 - trihydroxy - 4 - oxobutanoate with an empirical formula of KC4H5O6 and a molecular weight of 188 . 177 g / mol .
Each 5 gram dose is provided in a pre - filled single - dose applicator containing lactic acid USP ( 1 . 8 % w / w ) , citric acid USP ( 1 % w / w ) , and potassium bitartrate USP ( 0 . 4 % w / w ) .
Inactive ingredients present in the gel are : glycerin , alginic acid , xanthan gum , sodium hydroxide , benzoic acid , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In in vitro studies , Phexxi produced a normal vaginal pH range ( pH 3 . 5 – 4 . 5 ) in the presence of semen .
In clinical studies , post - coital testing demonstrated pH < 5 in the majority of subjects , and sperm motility reduction .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamic studies in humans have not been performed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies in humans have not been performed .
Systemic exposures of lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate following vaginal administration of PHEXXI are not expected to lead to safety concerns .
In vitro studies with commonly used vaginal preparations ( miconazole , metronidazole , tioconazole , and a product for maintaining normal vaginal pH ) showed no significant effect on the pH or buffering capacity of PHEXXI .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with PHEXXI .
Mutagenesis Mutagenic studies have not been performed with PHEXXI .
Impairment of Fertility Reproductive studies have not been performed with PHEXXI .
Upon discontinuation of PHEXXI , pregnancy may occur .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of PHEXXI for the prevention of pregnancy was evaluated in a multi - center , open - label , single - arm clinical trial in the United States ( AMP002 ; NCT03243305 ) .
The study enrolled females of reproductive potential 18 to 35 years of age with regular menstrual cycles ( 21 to 35 days ) .
The median age was 27 . 8 years .
The racial distribution was 70 . 6 % White , 23 . 7 % Black or African American , 2 . 5 % Asian , 0 . 4 % American Indian or Alaska Native , 0 . 2 % Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander , and 2 . 7 % other .
Subjects agreed to engage in at least 3 acts of heterosexual , vaginal intercourse per cycle .
Subjects self - administered a 5 gram dose of PHEXXI intravaginally up to one hour before each episode of intercourse for up to 7 cycles .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the 7 - cycle typical use cumulative pregnancy rate as derived by Kaplan - Meier life - table analysis .
A total of 101 on - treatment pregnancies occurred in 1183 subjects contributing 4769 evaluable natural cycles .
The 7 - cycle cumulative pregnancy rate was 13 . 7 % ( 95 % CI : 10 . 0 % , 17 . 5 % ) , excluding cycles with back - up contraception , cycles < 21 days or > 35 days in length and cycles in which no intercourse was reported .
The estimated Pearl Index , calculated based on data from the 7 - cycle study , was 27 . 5 ( 95 % CI : 22 . 4 % , 33 . 5 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PHEXXI ( lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate ) vaginal gel is an off - white to tan color gel of uniform consistency containing lactic acid ( 1 . 8 % ) , citric acid ( 1 % ) , and potassium bitartrate ( 0 . 4 % ) , supplied as individually wrapped 5 gram pre - filled single - dose vaginal applicators in sealed foil pouches along with a plunger , and are available as follows : • NDC 69751 - 100 - 12 Box of 12 units • NDC 69751 - 100 - 03 Sample box of 3 units Store in the original foil pack at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the Patient Information and FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Advise the patient : • To intravaginally administer the contents of one pre - filled single - dose applicator of PHEXXI before each episode of vaginal intercourse and to administer an additional dose if intercourse does not occur within one hour of administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• To consult their healthcare provider for severe or prolonged genital irritation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• To discontinue PHEXXI if they develop a local hypersensitivity reaction [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• To contact their healthcare provider if experiencing urinary tract symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• That PHEXXI does not protect against HIV infection and other sexually transmitted infections .
Manufactured for Evofem , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Evofem Biosciences , Inc . , 12400 High Bluff Drive , Suite 600 , San Diego , CA 92130 © 2022 Evofem , Inc .
All rights reserved .
U . S . Patents 6 , 706 , 276 and 10 , 568 , 855 PATIENT INFORMATION PHEXXI ® ( FEX ee ) ( lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate ) vaginal gel For Vaginal Use Only This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : April 2021 What is PHEXXI ?
• PHEXXI is a prescription medicine used to prevent pregnancy in females who can become pregnant and choose to use an on - demand method of birth control .
• PHEXXI is not effective at preventing pregnancy when used after vaginal sex .
How well does PHEXXI work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for using PHEXXI .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
It is very important that you follow the directions carefully each time you have vaginal sex .
PHEXXI does not protect against HIV infection or other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
Before using PHEXXI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or think you are pregnant .
PHEXXI is not for use in pregnant women .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PHEXXI passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use PHEXXI ?
• See the Instructions for Use that come with PHEXXI for detailed instructions on the right way to use PHEXXI .
• Use PHEXXI exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• PHEXXI must be used before vaginal sex .
• PHEXXI comes as a pre - filled single - dose vaginal applicator .
• Insert 1 PHEXXI pre - filled applicator into your vagina and use PHEXXI within 1 hour before each time you have vaginal sex .
If you do not have vaginal sex within 1 hour of using PHEXXI , you must insert a new PHEXXI pre - filled applicator .
• If you have vaginal sex more than 1 time within 1 hour , you must use a new PHEXXI pre - filled applicator .
• PHEXXI may be used at any time during the menstrual cycle .
• PHEXXI may be used as soon as your healthcare provider tells you it is safe for you to have vaginal sex after childbirth , abortion , or miscarriage .
• PHEXXI may be used with hormonal contraceptives ; and latex , polyurethane and polyisoprene condoms .
PHEXXI may be used with a vaginal diaphragm .
Avoid using PHEXXI with contraceptive vaginal rings .
• PHEXXI may be used with other medicines used in the vagina to treat infections including miconazole , metronidazole and tioconazole .
What are the possible side effects of PHEXXI ?
PHEXXI may cause serious side effects , including : • Bladder infection ( cystitis ) and acute kidney infection ( pyelonephritis ) .
Urinary tract infections are common but can also be serious .
You should not use PHEXXI if you have a history of urinary tract infections that keep coming back or other problems with your urinary tract .
Call your healthcare provider if you have burning with urination or other signs and symptoms of a urinary tract infection such as : burning feeling when passing urine , urine that looks cloudy , pain in the pelvis , or back pain .
• Allergic reactions .
Avoid using PHEXXI if you are a female who can become pregnant and are allergic to lactic acid , citric acid , potassium bitartrate or any of the ingredients in PHEXXI ; or your sexual partners are allergic to any of the ingredients in PHEXXI " .
Stop using PHEXXI if you have a local vulvovaginal reaction .
The most common side effects of PHEXXI include : • vaginal burning • vaginal itching • vaginal yeast infection • discomfort around the vaginal area • bacterial vaginosis • vaginal discharge • discomfort in the genital area • pain while passing urine These are not all the possible side effects of PHEXXI .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PHEXXI ?
• Store PHEXXI at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store PHEXXI in the original foil pouch .
Keep PHEXXI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of PHEXXI .
Medicines are sometimes used for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use PHEXXI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PHEXXI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about PHEXXI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in PHEXXI ?
Active ingredients : lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate Inactive ingredients : glycerin , alginic acid , xanthan gum , sodium hydroxide , benzoic acid , and purified water For more information , go to www . phexxi . com or call 1 - 833 - EVFMBIO .
Manufactured for Evofem , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Evofem Biosciences , Inc .
© 2021 Evofem , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Unless otherwise indicated , all trademarks used herein are the property of Evofem Biosciences , Inc .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE PHEXXI ® ( FEX ee ) ( lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate ) vaginal gel For Vaginal Use Only These Instructions for Use contain information on how to use PHEXXI vaginal gel .
Make sure that you read , understand , and follow the Instructions for Use before using PHEXXI and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
Contents : • Each box contains either 3 or 12 foil pouches .
• Each foil pouch contains a pre - filled applicator and plunger rod ( see Figure A ) .
• Each pre - filled applicator contains 1 dose of PHEXXI for 1 - time use ( single use ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Important Information You Need to Know Before Using PHEXXI • Use 1 dose of PHEXXI within 1 hour before you have vaginal sex .
• A new PHEXXI pre - filled applicator must be used each time you have vaginal sex .
If you have vaginal sex more than 1 time within 1 hour , a new PHEXXI pre - filled applicator must be used .
Prepare to Use PHEXXI Keep the pre - filled applicator and plunger rod in the foil pouch until you are ready to use PHEXXI .
Step 1 : Wash Your Hands • Wash your hands with soap and water before opening the foil pouch .
Step 2 : Remove the Pre - filled Applicator and Plunger Rod from the Foil Pouch • Remove the pre - filled applicator and plunger rod from the foil pouch ( see Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Important : Do not remove the pink cap until instructed in Step 4 .
Insert PHEXXI Gel Step 3 : Insert the Plunger Rod • Gently and slowly insert the plunger rod into the pre - filled applicator .
Push until you feel the tip of the plunger rod connect to the inside of the pre - filled applicator ( see Figure C ) .
• Do not push hard or continue to push after the tip of the plunger rod connects to the inside of the pre - filled applicator .
This could cause the gel to go into the pink cap .
• Use a new pre - filled applicator if the gel goes into the pink cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 4 : Remove the Pink Cap • After the plunger rod is connected to the pre - filled applicator , remove the pink cap from the pre - filled applicator ( see Figure D ) .
• The extra space between the gel and the end of the pre - filled applicator is normal .
• The pre - filled applicator is now ready for use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 5 : Insert the PHEXXI Pre - filled Applicator into the Vagina • Hold the pre - filled applicator at the grooved area closest to the plunger rod ( see Figure E ) .
• Gently insert the pre - filled applicator into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go while you continue to hold it by the grooved area firmly .
This can be done sitting with your knees apart , lying on your back with your knees bent ( see Figure F ) , or while standing with your feet apart or knees bent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 6 : Insert PHEXXI Gel • While the pre - filled applicator is inserted in your vagina , use your index finger to push the plunger rod down until it stops .
This is to make sure you receive the entire dose of PHEXXI ( see Figure G ) .
• It is normal for a small amount of gel to be left in the applicator .
You will still get the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G Step 7 : Remove the Used PHEXXI Pre - filled Applicator • Gently remove the plunger rod and pre - filled applicator from the vagina ( see Figure H ) and throw away ( dispose of ) the used pre - filled applicator .
• PHEXXI should be used within 1 hour before each time you have vaginal sex .
Use a new pre - filled applicator if you do not have vaginal sex within 1 hour of inserting PHEXXI gel and you still plan to have vaginal sex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H Disposing of PHEXXI Step 8 : Throw Away ( Dispose of ) the Used PHEXXI Pre - filled Applicator • Used PHEXXI pre - filled applicators and caps should be disposed of in the trash .
The cap may be a potential choking hazard .
Storing PHEXXI • Store PHEXXI at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store PHEXXI in the original foil pouch .
Keep PHEXXI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
For more information , including full prescribing information and information on patient safety , go to www . phexxi . com or call 1 - 833 - EVFMBIO .
Manufactured for Evofem , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Evofem Biosciences , Inc .
© 2021 Evofem , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Issued : April 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 Applicator Box phexxi ™ ( lactic acid , citric acid , and potassium bitartrate ) Vaginal Gel 1 . 8 % , 1 % , 0 . 4 % NDC 69751 - 100 - 12 PN - 5011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
