DESCRIPTION Verapamil hydrochloride is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) .
The tablets are designed for extended - release of the drug in the gastrointestinal tract ; extended - release characteristics are not altered when the tablet is divided in half .
Verapamil hydrochloride is not chemically related to other cardioactive drugs .
Verapamil hydrochloride is chemically designated as Benzeneacetonitrile , α - [ 3 - [ [ 2 - ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ] - methylamino ] propyl ] - 3 , 4 - dimethoxy - α - ( 1 - methylethyl ) - monohydrochloride and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C27H38N2O4 ● HCl M . W . 491 . 07 Verapamil hydrochloride is a white or practically white crystalline powder , practically odorless with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , methanol , and chloroform .
Each extended - release tablet , for oral administration , contains 240 mg , 180 mg or 120 mg verapamil hydrochloride .
In addition to verapamil hydrochloride the tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : sodium alginate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , magnesium stearate .
The coating for verapamil 240 mg tablets contains : hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum lake .
The coating for verapamil 180 mg tablets contains : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum lake , polysorbate 80 .
The coating for verapamil 120 mg tablets contains : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , polydextrose powder , triacetin , synthetic yellow iron oxide .
All three strengths : 120 mg , 180 mg , and 240 mg meet USP Drug Release Test # 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Verapamil HCl is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) that exerts its pharmacologic effects by modulating the influx of ionic calcium across the cell membrane of the arterial smooth muscle as well as in conductile and contractile myocardial cells .
Mechanism of Action Essential Hypertension Verapamil exerts antihypertensive effects by decreasing systemic vascular resistance , usually without orthostatic decreases in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia ; bradycardia ( rate less than 50 beats / min ) is uncommon ( 1 . 4 % ) .
During isometric or dynamic exercise verapamil does not alter systolic cardiac function in patients with normal ventricular function .
Verapamil does not alter total serum calcium levels .
However , one report suggested that calcium levels above the normal range may alter the therapeutic effect of verapamil .
Other Pharmacological Actions of Verapamil Include the Following Verapamil dilates the main coronary arteries and coronary arterioles , both in normal and ischemic regions , and is a potent inhibitor of coronary artery spasm , whether spontaneous or ergonovine - induced .
This property increases myocardial oxygen delivery in patients with coronary artery spasm and is responsible for the effectiveness of verapamil in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ' s or variant ) as well as unstable angina at rest .
Whether this effect plays any role in classical effort angina is not clear , but studies of exercise tolerance have not shown an increase in the maximum exercise rate - pressure product , a widely accepted measure of oxygen utilization .
This suggests that , in general , relief of spasm or dilation of coronary arteries is not an important factor in classical angina .
Verapamil regularly reduces the total systemic resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works both at rest and at a given level of exercise by dilating peripheral arterioles .
Electrical activity through the AV node depends , to a significant degree , upon calcium influx through the slow channel .
By decreasing the influx of calcium , verapamil prolongs the effective refractory period within the AV node and slows AV conduction in a rate - related manner .
Normal sinus rhythm is usually not affected , but in patients with sick sinus syndrome , verapamil may interfere with sinus node impulse generation and may induce sinus arrest or sinoatrial block .
Atrioventricular block can occur in patients without preexisting conduction defects ( see WARNINGS ) .
Verapamil does not alter the normal atrial action potential or intraventricular conduction time , but depresses amplitude , velocity of depolarization and conduction in depressed atrial fibers .
Verapamil may shorten the antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory bypass tract .
Acceleration of ventricular rate and / or ventricular fibrillation has been reported in patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and a coexisting accessory AV pathway following administration of verapamil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Verapamil has a local anesthetic action that is 1 . 6 times that of procaine on an equimolar basis .
It is not known whether this action is important at the doses used in man .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism With the immediate - release formulation , more than 90 % of the orally administered dose of verapamil HCl Is absorbed .
Because of rapid biotransformation of verapamil during its first pass through the portal circulation , bioavailability ranges from 20 % to 35 % .
Peak plasma concentrations are reached between 1 and 2 hours after oral administration .
Chronic oral administration of 120 mg of verapamil hydrochloride every 6 hours resulted in plasma levels of verapamil ranging from 125 to 400 ng / mL , with higher values reported occasionally .
A nonlinear correlation between the verapamil dose administered and verapamil plasma levels does exist .
In early dose titration with verapamil a relationship exists between verapamil plasma concentrations and the prolongation of the PR interval .
However , during chronic administration this relationship may disappear .
The mean elimination half - life in single - dose studies ranged from 2 . 8 to 7 . 4 hours .
In these same studies , after repetitive dosing , the half - life increased to a range from 4 . 5 to 12 hours ( after less than 10 consecutive doses given 6 hours apart ) .
Half - life of verapamil may increase during titration .
No relationship has been established between the plasma concentration of verapamil and a reduction in blood pressure .
Aging may affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil .
Elimination half - life may be prolonged in the elderly .
In multiple - dose studies under fasting conditions , the bioavailability , measured by AUC , of extended - release verapamil was similar to immediate release verapamil ; rates of absorption were , of course , different .
In a randomized , single dose , crossover study using healthy volunteers , administration of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release tablets 240 mg with food produced peak plasma verapamil concentrations of 79 ng / mL , time to peak plasma verapamil concentration of 7 . 71 hours , and AUC ( 0 - 24 hr ) of 841 ng - hr / mL .
When verapamil hydrochloride extended - release tablets were administered to fasting subjects , peak plasma verapamil concentration was 164 ng / mL ; time to peak plasma verapamil concentration was 5 . 21 hours ; and AUC ( 0 - 24 hr ) was 1 , 478 ng - hr / mL .
Similar results were demonstrated for plasma norverapamil .
Food thus produces decreased bioavailability ( AUC ) but a narrower peak - to - trough ratio .
Good correlation of dose and response is not available , but controlled studies of extended - release verapamil have shown effectiveness of doses similar to the effective doses of immediate - release verapamil .
In healthy man , orally administered verapamil HCl undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver .
Twelve metabolites have been identified in plasma ; all except norverapamil are present in trace amounts only .
Norverapamil can reach steady - state plasma concentrations approximately equal to those of verapamil itself .
The cardiovascular activity of norverapamil appears to be approximately 20 % that of verapamil .
Approximately 70 % of an administered dose is excreted as metabolites in the urine and 16 % or more in the feces within 5 days .
About 3 % to 4 % is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug .
Approximately 90 % is bound to plasma proteins .
In patients with hepatic insufficiency , metabolism of immediate - release verapamil is delayed and elimination half - life prolonged up to 14 to 16 hours ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; the volume of distribution is increased and plasma clearance reduced to about 30 % of normal .
Verapamil clearance values suggest that patients with liver dysfunction may attain therapeutic verapamil plasma concentrations with one - third of the oral daily dose required for patients with normal liver function .
After four weeks of oral dosing ( 120 mg q . i . d . ) , verapamil and norverapamil levels were noted in the cerebrospinal fluid with estimated partition coefficient of 0 . 06 for verapamil and 0 . 04 for norverapamil .
In ten healthy males , administration of oral verapamil ( 80 mg every 8 hours for 6 days ) and a single oral dose of ethanol ( 0 . 8 g / kg ) resulted in a 17 % increase in mean peak ethanol concentrations ( 106 . 45 ± 21 . 40 to 124 . 23 ± 24 . 74 mg • hr / dL ) compared to placebo .
The area under the blood ethanol concentration versus time curve ( AUC over 12 hours ) increased by 30 % ( 365 . 67 ± 93 . 52 to 475 . 07 ± 97 . 24 mg • hr / dL ) .
Verapamil AUCs were positively correlated ( r = 0 . 71 ) to increased ethanol blood AUC values ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Hemodynamics and Myocardial Metabolism Verapamil reduces afterload and myocardial contractility .
Improved left ventricular diastolic function in patients with IHSS and those with coronary heart disease has also been observed with verapamil HCl therapy .
In most patients , including those with organic cardiac disease , the negative inotropic action of verapamil is countered by reduction of afterload and cardiac index is usually not reduced .
However , in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction , ( e . g . , pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mm Hg or ejection fraction less than 30 % ) , or in patients taking beta - adrenergic blocking agents or other cardiodepressant drugs , deterioration of ventricular function may occur ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Pulmonary Function Verapamil does not induce broncho - constriction and , hence , does not impair ventilatory function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil HCl Extended - Release Tablets are indicated for the management of essential hypertension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets are contraindicated in : • Severe left ventricular dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Hypotension ( systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg ) or cardiogenic shock .
• Sick sinus syndrome ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract ( e . g . , Wolff - Parkinson - White , Lown - Ganong - Levine syndromes ) ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Heart Failure Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect , which in most patients is compensated by its afterload reduction ( decreased systemic vascular resistance ) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance .
In clinical experience with 4 , 954 patients , 87 ( 1 . 8 % ) developed congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema .
Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction ( e . g . , ejection fraction less than 30 % , or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure ) and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocker ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should , if possible , be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and / or diuretics before verapamil treatment .
( Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hypotension Occasionally , the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels , which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension .
The incidence of hypotension observed in 4 , 954 patients enrolled in clinical trials was 2 . 5 % .
In hypertensive patients , decreases in blood pressure below normal are unusual .
Tilt - table testing ( 60 degrees ) was not able to induce orthostatic hypotension .
Elevated Liver Enzymes Elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevations in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been reported .
Such elevations have sometimes been transient and may disappear even in the face of continued verapamil treatment .
Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge ; half of these had clinical symptoms ( malaise , fever , and / or right upper quadrant pain ) in addition to elevations of SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase .
Periodic monitoring of liver function in patients receiving verapamil is therefore prudent .
Accessory Bypass Tract ( Wolff - Parkinson - White or Lown - Ganong - Levine ) Some patients with paroxysmal and / or chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node , producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil ( or digitalis ) .
Although a risk of this occurring with oral verapamil has not been established , such patients receiving oral verapamil may be at risk and its use in these patients is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Treatment is usually DC - cardioversion .
Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil hydrochloride .
Atrioventricular Block The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may cause asymptomatic first degree AV block and transient bradycardia , sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms .
PR - interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations , especially during the early titration phases of therapy .
Higher degrees of AV block , however , were infrequently ( 0 . 8 % ) observed .
Marked first - degree block or progressive development to second - or third - degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or , in rare instances , discontinuation of verapamil HCl and institution of appropriate therapy , depending upon the clinical situation .
Patients with Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) In 120 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy most of them refractory or intolerant to propranolol ) who received therapy with verapamil at doses up to 720 mg / day , a variety of serious adverse effects were seen .
Three patients died in pulmonary edema ; all had severe left ventricular outflow obstruction and a past history of left ventricular dysfunction .
Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and / or severe hypotension ; abnormally high ( greater than 20 mm Hg ) pulmonary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients .
Concomitant administration of quinidine ( see Drug Interactions ) preceded the severe hypotension in 3 of the 8 patients ( 2 of whom developed pulmonary edema ) .
Sinus bradycardia occurred in 11 % of the patients , second - degree AV block in 4 % and sinus arrest in 2 % .
It must be appreciated that this group of patients had a serious disease with a high mortality rate .
Most adverse effects responded well to dose reduction , and only rarely did verapamil have to be discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General Use in Patients with Impaired Hepatic Function Since verapamil is highly metabolized by the liver , it should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired hepatic function .
Severe liver dysfunction prolongs the elimination half - life of immediate - release verapamil to about 14 to 16 hours ; hence , approximately 30 % of the dose given to patients with normal liver function should be administered to these patients .
Careful monitoring for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of excessive pharmacologic effects ( see OVERDOSAGE ) should be carried out .
Use in Patients with Attenuated ( Decreased ) Neuromuscular Transmission It has been reported that verapamil decreases neuromuscular transmission in patients with Duchenne ' s muscular dystrophy , prolongs recovery from the neuromuscular blocking agent vecuronium , and causes a worsening of myasthenia gravis .
It may be necessary to decrease the dosage of verapamil when it is administered to patients with attenuated neuromuscular transmission .
Use in Patients with Impaired Renal Function About 70 % of an administered dose of verapamil is excreted as metabolites in the urine .
Verapamil is not removed by hemodialysis .
Until further data are available , verapamil should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired renal function .
These patients should be carefully monitored for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of overdosage ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Drug Interactions Telithromycin Hypotension and bradyarrythmias have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin , an antibiotic in the ketolide class of antibiotics .
Clonidine Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant verapamil and clonidine .
Cytochrome Inducers / Inhibitors In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 and CYP2C18 .
Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( eg , erythromycin , ritonavir ) causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil while inducers of CYP3A4 ( eg , rifampin ) have caused a lowering of plasma levels of verapamil ; therefore , patients should be monitored for drug interactions .
Aspirin In a few reported cases , coadministration of verapamil with aspirin has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone .
Grapefruit Juice The intake of grapefruit juice may increase drug levels of verapamil .
Beta - Blockers Concomitant therapy with beta - adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate , atrioventricular conduction and / or cardiac contractility .
The combination of extended - release verapamil and beta - adrenergic blocking agents has not been studied .
However , there have been reports of excessive bradycardia and AV block , including complete heart block , when the combination has been used for the treatment of hypertension .
For hypertensive patients , the risks of combined therapy may outweigh the potential benefits .
The combination should be used only with caution and close monitoring .
Asymptomatic bradycardia ( 36 beats / min ) with a wandering atrial pacemaker has been observed in a patient receiving concomitant timolol ( a beta - adrenergic blocker ) eyedrops and oral verapamil .
A decrease in metoprolol and propranolol clearance has been observed when either drug is administered concomitantly with verapamil .
A variable effect has been seen when verapamil and atenolol were given together .
Digitalis Clinical use of verapamil in digitalized patients has shown the combination to be well tolerated if digoxin doses are properly adjusted .
Chronic verapamil treatment can increase serum digoxin levels by 50 % to 75 % during the first week of therapy , and this can result in digitalis toxicity .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis the influence of verapamil on digoxin kinetics is magnified .
Verapamil may reduce total body clearance and extrarenal clearance of digitoxin by 27 % and 29 % , respectively .
Maintenance digitalization doses should be reduced when verapamil is administered , and the patient should be carefully monitored to avoid over - or underdigitalization .
Whenever overdigitalization is suspected , the daily dose of digitalis should be reduced or temporarily discontinued .
Upon discontinuation of verapamil HCl use , the patient should be reassessed to avoid underdigitalization .
Antihypertensive Agents Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents ( e . g . , vasodilators , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , diuretics , beta - blockers ) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure .
Patients receiving these combinations should be appropriately monitored .
Concomitant use of agents that attenuate alpha - adrenergic function with verapamil may result in reduction in blood pressure that is excessive in some patients .
Such an effect was observed in one study following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin .
Antiarrhythmic Agents Disopyramide Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide phosphate are obtained , disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration .
Flecainide A study of healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility , AV conduction , and repolarization .
Concomitant therapy with flecainide and verapamil may result in additive negative inotropic effect and prolongation of atrioventricular conduction .
Quinidine In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension .
Until further data are obtained , combined therapy of verapamil and quinidine in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should probably be avoided .
The electrophysiological effects of quinidine and verapamil on AV conduction were studied in 8 patients .
Verapamil significantly counteracted the effects of quinidine on AV conduction .
There has been a report of increased quinidine levels during verapamil therapy .
Nitrates Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short - and long - acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions .
The pharmacologic profile of both drugs and the clinical experience suggest beneficial interactions .
Other Alcohol Verapamil has been found to significantly inhibit ethanol elimination resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism . )
Cimetidine The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied .
Variable results on clearance have been obtained in acute studies of healthy volunteers ; clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged .
Lithium Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium ( neurotoxicity ) has been reported during concomitant verapamil - lithium therapy ; lithium levels have been observed sometimes to increase , sometimes to decrease , and sometimes to be unchanged .
Patients receiving both drugs must be monitored carefully .
Carbamazepine Verapamil may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy .
This may produce carbamazepine side effects such as diplopia , headache , ataxia , or dizziness .
Rifampin Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability .
Phenobarbital Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance .
Cyclosporine Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine .
Theophylline Verapamil therapy may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline .
Inhalation Anesthetics Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions .
When used concomitantly , inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists , such as verapamil , should each be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression .
Neuromuscular - Blocking Agents Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents ( curare - like and depolarizing ) .
It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and / or the dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month toxicity study in rats , at a low multiple ( 6 - fold ) of the maximum recommended human dose , and not the maximum tolerated dose , did not suggest a tumorigenic potential .
There was no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of verapamil administered in the diet of rats for two years at doses of 10 , 35 , and 120 mg / kg / day or approximately 1 , 3 . 5 , and 12 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily dose ( 480 mg / day or 9 . 6 mg / kg / day ) .
Verapamil was not mutagenic in the Ames test in 5 test strains at 3 mg per plate with or without metabolic activation .
Studies in female rats at daily dietary doses up to 5 . 5 times ( 55 mg / kg / day ) the maximum recommended human dose did not show impaired fertility .
Effects on male fertility have not been determined .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at oral doses up to 1 . 5 ( 15 mg / kg / day ) and 6 ( 60 mg / kg / day ) times the human oral daily dose , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
In the rat , however , this multiple of the human dose was embryocidal and retarded fetal growth and development , probably because of adverse maternal effects reflected in reduced weight gains of the dams .
This oral dose has also been shown to cause hypotension in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Verapamil crosses the placental barrier and can be detected in umbilical vein blood at delivery .
Labor and Delivery It is not known whether the use of verapamil during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , or whether it prolongs the duration of labor or increases the need for forceps delivery or other obstetric intervention .
Such adverse experiences have not been reported in the literature , despite a long history of use of verapamil in Europe in the treatment of cardiac side effects of beta - adrenergic agonist agents used to treat premature labor .
Nursing Mothers Verapamil is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from verapamil , nursing should be discontinued while verapamil is administered .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of verapamil HCl in children below the age of 18 years have not been established .
Animal Pharmacology and / or Animal Toxicology In chronic animal toxicology studies , verapamil caused lenticular and / or suture line changes at 30 mg / kg / day or greater , and frank cataracts at 62 . 5 mg / kg / day or greater in the beagle dog but not in the rat .
Development of cataracts due to verapamil has not been reported in man .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions are uncommon when verapamil therapy is initiated with upward dose titration within the recommended single and total daily dose .
See WARNINGS for discussion of heart failure , hypotension , elevated liver enzymes , AV block , and rapid ventricular response .
Reversible ( upon discontinuation of verapamil ) non - obstructive , paralytic ileus has been infrequently reported in association with the use of verapamil .
The following reactions to orally administered verapamil occurred at rates greater than 1 % or occurred at lower rates but appeared clearly drug - related in clinical trials in 4 , 954 patients .
Constipation 7 . 3 % Dizziness 3 . 3 % Nausea 2 . 7 % Hypotension 2 . 5 % Headache 2 . 2 % Edema 1 . 9 % CHF / Pulmonary Edema 1 . 8 % Fatigue 1 . 7 % Dyspnea 1 . 4 % Bradycardia ( HR < 50 / min ) 1 . 4 % AV block - total ( 1 ° , 2 ° , 3 ° ) 1 . 2 % 2 ° and 3 ° 0 . 8 % Rash 1 . 2 % Flushing 0 . 6 % Elevated liver enzymes ( see WARNINGS ) In clinical trials related to the control of ventricular response in digitalized patients who had atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter , ventricular rates below 50 / min at rest occurred in 15 % of patients and asymptomatic hypotension occurred in 5 % of patients .
The following reactions , reported in 1 % or less of patients , occurred under conditions ( open trials , marketing experience ) where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , atrioventricular dissociation , chest pain , claudication , myocardial infarction , palpitations , purpura ( vasculitis ) , syncope .
Digestive System : diarrhea , dry mouth , gastrointestinal distress , gingival hyperplasia .
Hemic and Lymphatic : ecchymosis or bruising .
Nervous System : cerebrovascular accident , confusion , equilibrium disorders , insomnia , muscle cramps , paresthesia , psychotic symptoms , shakiness , somnolence , extrapyramidal symptoms .
Skin : arthralgia and rash , exanthema , hair loss , hyperkeratosis , maculas , sweating , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme .
Special Senses : blurred vision , tinnitus .
Urogenital : gynecomastia , impotence , galactorrhea / hyperprolactinemia , increased urination , spotty menstruation .
Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions The frequency of cardiovascular adverse reactions which require therapy is rare ; hence , experience with their treatment is limited .
Whenever severe hypotension or complete AV block occurs following oral administration of verapamil , the appropriate emergency measures should be applied immediately ; e . g . , intravenously administered isoproterenol HCl , norepinephrine bitartrate , atropine sulfate ( all in the usual doses ) , or calcium gluconate ( 10 % solution ) .
In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , alpha - adrenergic agents ( phenylephrine HCl , metaraminol bitartrate or methoxamine HCl ) should be used to maintain blood pressure , and isoproterenol and norepinephrine should be avoided .
If further support is necessary , dopamine HCl or dobutamine HCl may be administered .
Actual treatment and dosage should depend on the severity of the clinical situation and the judgment and experience of the treating physician .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose with verapamil may lead to pronounced hypotension , bradycardia , and conduction system abnormalities ( e . g . , junctional rhythm with AV dissociation and high degree AV block , including asystole ) .
Other symptoms secondary to hypoperfusion ( e . g . , metabolic acidosis , hyperglycemia , hyperkalemia , renal dysfunction , and convulsions ) may be evident .
Treat all verapamil overdoses as serious and maintain observation for at least 48 hours ( especially extended - release verapamil ) , preferably under continuous hospital care .
Delayed pharmacodynamic consequences may occur with the extended - release formulation .
Verapamil is known to decrease gastrointestinal transit time .
In overdose , tablets of verapamil extended - release have occasionally been reported to form concretions within the stomach or intestines .
These concretions have not been visible on plain radiographs of the abdomen , and no medical means of gastrointestinal emptying is of proven efficacy in removing them .
Endoscopy might reasonably be considered in cases of massive overdose when symptoms are unusually prolonged .
Treatment of overdosage should be supportive .
Beta - adrenergic stimulation or parenteral administration of calcium injections may increase calcium ion flux across the slow channel and have been used effectively in treatment of deliberate overdosage with verapamil .
Continued treatment with large doses of calcium may produce a response .
In a few reported cases , overdose with calcium channel blockers that was initially refractory to atropine became more responsive to this treatment when the patients received large doses ( close to 1 gram / hour for more than 24 hours ) of calcium chloride .
Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
Clinically significant hypotensive reactions or high - degree AV block should be treated with vasopressor agents or cardiac pacing , respectively .
Asystole should be handled by the usual measures , including cardiopulmonary resuscitation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Essential hypertension The dose of verapamil HCl extended - release should be individualized by titration and the drug should be administered with food .
Initiate therapy with 180 mg of extended - release verapamil HCl given in the morning .
Lower initial doses of 120 mg a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil ( e . g . , the elderly or small people etc . ) .
Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated weekly and approximately 24 hours after the previous dose .
The antihypertensive effects of verapamil HCl extended - release are evident within the first week of therapy .
If adequate response is not obtained with 180 mg of verapamil HCl extended - release , the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner : • 240 mg each morning , • 180 mg each morning plus 180 mg each evening ; or 240 mg each morning plus 120 mg each evening , • 240 mg every twelve hours .
When switching from immediate release verapamil to extended - release verapamil , the total daily dose in milligrams may remain the same .
HOW SUPPLIED Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets USP 240 mg NDC 21695 - 868 - 90 are supplied as ivory , capsule - shaped , scored , film - coated tablets debossed with “ 7300 ” on one side , [ MULTIMEDIA ] on the other side , packaged in bottles of 90 .
Store between 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT AND MOISTURE Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . D 4 / 2010 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
