1 INDICATIONS & USAGE GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is a combination of PEG - 3350 , an osmotic laxative and bisacodyl , a stimulant laxative , indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP oral dosage regimen for adults on the day prior to colonoscopy is as follows : • No solid food or milk ( clear liquids only ) should be consumed on the day of the preparation .
• Take one 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP with water .
Do NOT chew or crush the tablet .
• No antacids should be taken within one hour of taking the bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
• Prepare the GaviLyte - H solution according to the instructions on the kit .
• Add flavor pack of choice ( if applicable ) to the 2 liter container .
• No additional ingredients ( other than flavor packs provided ) should be added to the solution .
• Prepare the GaviLyte - H solution by filling the container to the 2 liter mark with water .
Cap the container .
Shake to dissolve the powder .
• Wait for a bowel movement ( or maximum of 6 hours ) then drink the 2 liter GaviLyte - H solution at a rate of 8 ounces every 10 minutes .
Drink all of the solution .
• If you have abdominal distention or discomfort , stop drinking the GaviLyte - H solution temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals until your symptoms improve .
• Consume only clear liquids after taking the GaviLyte - H solution until your colonoscopy .
See FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION for complete dosing and administration instructions ( 2 ) • No solid food or milk ( clear liquids only ) should be consumed on the day of the preparation .
• Take one 5 mg bisacodyl tablet with water .
Do NOT chew or crush .
• Dissolve the GaviLyte - H powder in 2 liters of water .
• Wait for a bowel movement ( or maximum of 6 hours ) then drink all the GaviLyte - H solution at a rate of 8 ounces every 10 minutes .
• Consume only clear liquids until the colonoscopy .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS • One pink , round , enteric coated 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP , de - bossed with “ N1 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
• One 2 liter GaviLyte - H bottle with powder for reconstitution • One 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ( 3 ) • One 2 liter GaviLyte - H bottle with powder for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction • Bowel perforation • Toxic colitis and toxic megacolon • Gastric retention • Ileus • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction ( 4 ) • Bowel perforation ( 4 ) • Toxic colitis or toxic megacolon ( 4 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Ileus ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities , arrhythmias , seizures and renal impairment – assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • Patients with renal impairment – use caution , ensure adequate hydration and consider testing ( 5 . 3 ) • Ischemic colitis has been reported ( 5 . 5 ) • Suspected GI obstruction or perforation – rule out the diagnosis before administration ( 5 . 6 ) • Patients at risk for aspiration – observe during administration ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before , during , and after the use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP , consider performing post - colonoscopy lab tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias , seizures and renal impairment .
Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
In addition , use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for patients with conditions , or who are using medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure , arrhythmias , and renal impairment .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] 5 . 2 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures with the use of large volume ( 4 liter ) PEG - based colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures .
The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia ) and low serum osmolality .
The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Use caution when prescribing the GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at risk of seizure , such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) , patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines , patients with known or suspected hyponatremia , or patients using concomitant medications ( such as diuretics ) that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities .
Monitor baseline and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( sodium , potassium , calcium , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients .
5 . 3 Renal Impairment Patients with impaired water handling who experience severe vomiting should be closely monitored including measurement of electrolytes ( sodium , potassium , calcium , BUN and creatinine ) .
Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function ( such as diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration and consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients .
5 . 4 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation .
Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias ( e . g . patients with a history of prolonged QT , uncontrolled arrhythmias , recent myocardial infarction , unstable angina , congestive heart failure , or cardiomyopathy ) .
Pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias .
5 . 5 Ischemic Colitis There have been reports of ischemic colitis in patients with use of GaviLyte - H and 20 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP and GaviLyte - H and 10 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
If patients develop severe abdominal pain or rectal bleeding , patients should be evaluated as soon as possible .
5 . 6 Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis .
5 . 7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration .
Such patients should be observed during administration of the GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP solution .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( > 3 % ) are overall discomfort , abdominal fullness , abdominal cramping , nausea , and vomiting , ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novel Laboratories , Inc . at 908 - 603 - 6000 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In a clinical study of GaviLyte - H and ( 5 mg vs . 10 mg ) bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP , overall discomfort , abdominal fullness , abdominal cramping , nausea , and vomiting , were the most common adverse reactions ( > 3 % ) .
The data in Table 1 reflects the 154 patients that received GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl tablet vs . the 154 patients that received GaviLyte - H and 10 mg bisacodyl tablets .
The GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP population was 29 - 87 years of age , 49 % male , 51 % female , 13 % African American , 83 % White , 5 % Hispanic requiring a colonoscopy .
The demographics of the comparator group were similar .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 3 % of Randomized Patients GaviLyte - H and 5 mg Bisacodyl Delayed - release Tablet , USP ( N = 154 ) ] GaviLyte - H and 10 mg Bisacodyl Delayed - release Tablet , USP ( N = 154 ) Overall Discomfort 57 % 66 % Abdominal fullness 40 % 53 % Abdominal cramping 38 % 46 % Nausea 34 % 42 % Vomiting 10 % 7 % 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Allergic Reactions : Cases of urticaria , rhinorrhea , dermatitis and anaphylactic reactions have been reported with PEG - based products .
Gastrointestinal : There are isolated reports of serious post - marketing events following the administration of PEG - based products in patients over 60 years of age .
These adverse reactions include upper GI bleeding from a Mallory - Weiss tear , esophageal perforation , asystole , and acute pulmonary edema after vomiting and aspirating the PEG - based solution .
In addition , during administration of 4 liters of PEG - 3350 colon cleansing preparation the following serious adverse reactions were seen : two deaths in end stage renal failure patients who developed diarrhea , vomiting and dysnatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Ischemic colitis has been reported with use of of GaviLyte - H and 20 mg and 10 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablets , USP for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy .
However , a causal relationship between these ischemic colitis cases and the use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablets , USP has not been established .
Neurologic : There have been reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures associated with use of large volume ( 4 liter ) PEG - based colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures .
Cases of dizziness and syncope have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Some drugs ( e . g . , diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) increase risk due to fluid and electrolyte changes ( 7 . 1 ) • Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of drinking GaviLyte - H might not be absorbed fully .
( 7 . 2 ) • Do not take the bisacodyl tablet within one hour of taking antacid ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase Risks of Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for patients with conditions , or who are using medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure , arrhythmias , and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] in patients taking these concomitant medications .
7 . 2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of GaviLyte - H solution may be flushed from the GI tract and the medication may not be absorbed completely .
7 . 3 Interaction with Antacids Do not take the bisacodyl delayed - release tablet within one hour of taking an antacid .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
It is not known whether GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP should be given to a pregnant or nursing woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 148 patients who took GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP in clinical trials , 42 ( 28 % ) were 65 years of age or older , while 10 ( 7 % ) were 75 years of age or older .
The rates of success appear to be lower in patients 65 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Using more than the recommended dosage of bisacodyl in conjunction with GaviLyte - H solution increases the frequency of common adverse events and may increase the risk of ischemic colitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP consists of PEG - 3350 , an osmotic laxative and bisacodyl , a stimulant laxative .
Each GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ( Polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet ) consists of one 2 liter bottle of GaviLyte – H ( PEG - 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution ) powder for reconstitution and one 5 mg bisacodyl , delayed - release tablet , USP .
• Bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP : Each pink , round , enteric coated bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ( debossed “ N1 ” ) contains 5 mg of bisacodyl , USP ( C22H19NO4 ) with a molecular weight of 361 . 40 .
Inactive ingredients include lactose ( anhydrous ) NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , magnesium stearate NF , methacrylic acid copolymer , talc , titanium dioxide , triethyl citrate , D & C red # 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , colloidal anhydrous silica , sodium bicarbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake and FD & C yellow # 6 / sunset yellow FCF aluminum lake .
The bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is administered orally prior to drinking the GaviLyte - H [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• GaviLyte – H ( PEG - 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution ) : A white powder for reconstitution containing 210 grams of PEG - 3350 , 2 . 86 grams of sodium bicarbonate , 5 . 6 grams of sodium chloride , 0 . 74 grams of potassium chloride and 2 grams of flavoring ingredients ( if applicable ) .
Flavor Packs are available in Cherry ( containing artificial cherry flavor powder , maltodextrin and sodium saccharin ) , Lemon ( containing natural lemon flavor powder , maltodextrin and sodium saccharin ) , and Orange ( containing natural and artificial orange flavor powder , maltodextrin and sodium saccharin ) .
This preparation can be used without the addition of a Flavor Pack .
When dissolved in water to a volume of 2 liters , the GaviLyte - H solution is isosmotic , clear , and colorless .
The GaviLyte - H solution is administered orally after taking the one bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) , which is an osmotic agent , causes water to be retained within the gastrointestinal tract .
Bisacodyl is hydrolyzed by intestinal brush border enzymes and colonic bacteria to form an active metabolite [ bis - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) pyridyl - 2 methane ; ( BHPM ) ] that acts directly on the colonic mucosa to produce colonic peristalsis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The stimulant laxative effect of bisacodyl , together with the osmotic effect of the unabsorbed PEG when ingested with a large volume of water , produces watery diarrhea .
12 . 3 PharmacoKinetics When taken orally , PEG 3350 is minimally absorbed .
Bisacodyl , which is a prodrug , is converted to its active metabolite BHPM by intestinal brush border enzymes and colonic bacteria .
The pharmacokinetics of bisacodyl following oral administration of the bisacodyl tablet has not been adequately characterized .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
Studies to evaluate its potential for impairment of fertility or its mutagenic potential have not been performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The colon cleansing efficacy of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ( with 5 mg of bisacodyl ) was evaluated in a randomized , single blind ( endoscopist only ) , active - controlled , multicenter study .
In this study , 293 adult patients were included in the efficacy analysis .
Patients ranged in age from 19 to 87 years old ( mean age 55 years old ) with 55 % female and 45 % male patients .
Race was distributed as follows : 83 % White , 12 % African American , 8 % Hispanic or Latino , and 4 % other .
Patients were randomized to one of the following two colon preparations : 1 ) GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ 10 mg of bisacodyl tablets were given at noon on the day before colonoscopy followed by 2 liters of GaviLyte - H ( after the first bowel movement or maximum of 6 hours ) ] at a rate of 8 ounces every 10 minutes and 2 ) a modified GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ containing a 5 mg bisacodyl tablet given at noon on the day before colonoscopy followed by 2 liters of GaviLyte - H ( after the first bowel movement or maximum of 6 hours ) ] at a rate of 8 ounces every 10 minutes .
Patients were instructed to refrain from solid food and to have clear liquids on the day before colonoscopy .
In addition , patients were instructed to consume nothing by mouth , except clear liquids , from the time the preparation was completed until after the colonoscopy was completed .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with successful colon cleansing ( assessed by the colonoscopists ) , see Table 2 below .
Successful colon cleansing was defined as preparations that were graded excellent ( no more than small bits of adherent feces / fluid ) or good ( small amounts of feces or fluid not interfering with the exam ) by the colonoscopist .
Table 2 : Proportion of Patients with Successful Colon Cleansing GaviLyte - H and 5 mg Bisacodyl Delayed - release Tablet , USP ( H5 ) GaviLyte - H and 10 mg Bisacodyl Delayed - release Tablet , USP ( H10 ) Difference between treatment groups ( H5 - H10 ) % ( n / N ) Two - sided 95 % CI 1 % ( n / N ) Two - sided 95 % CI 1 Percent Difference % Two - sided 95 % CI for Percent Difference 1 Confidence Interval ( CI ) for within treatment percent success is from an exact Chi Square test .
All Patients 78 ( 114 / 147 ) ( 69 . 9 , 84 . 0 ) 80 ( 117 / 146 ) ( 72 . 7 , 86 . 3 ) - 2 . 0 ( - 11 . 9 , 6 . 8 ) The proportion of patients with successful colon cleansing was similar between treatment groups .
No differences in response rates by gender or race were noted in the GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl group .
In patients ≥ 65 years of age treated with the GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP the proportion with successful colon cleansing was 67 % ( n = 28 / 42 ) [ 95 % CI : ( 50 . 5 , 80 . 4 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP contains : One 5 mg bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP : pink , round , enteric coated , debossed “ N1 ” on one side and plain on the other in a blister strip .
One 2 liter bottle of GaviLyte – H ( PEG - 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution ) powder for reconstitution containing 210 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , 2 . 86 grams of sodium bicarbonate , 5 . 6 grams of sodium chloride , 0 . 74 grams of potassium chloride , and 2 gram of flavoring ingredients ( if applicable ) .
After adding 2 liters of water , the reconstituted GaviLyte - H solution ( clear and colorless ) contains 31 . 3 mmol / L of PEG - 3350 , 65 mmol / L of sodium , 53 mmol / L of chloride , 17 mmol / L of bicarbonate and 5 mmol / L of potassium .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP with Flavor Packs contain 3 packs ( 2 gram each Cherry , Lemon , and Orange flavors ) NDC 43386 - 071 - 83 .
Storage : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The reconstituted GaviLyte – H solution , which may be refrigerated , should be used within 48 hours .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See Medication Guide Information for Patients • Ask patients to let you know if they have trouble swallowing or are prone to regurgitation or aspiration .
• Tell patients not to take other laxatives while they are taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP • Tell patients that if they experience severe bloating , distention or abdominal pain , the administration of the solution should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate .
Advise patients to report these events to their health care provider .
• Advise patients that if they have hives , rashes , or any allergic reaction , they should discontinue the medication and contact their health care provider .
Medication should be discontinued until they speak to their physician .
• Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider if they develop signs and symptoms of dehydration .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of GaviLyte - H may be flushed from the GI tract and the medication may not be absorbed completely .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Manufactured for : GAVIS Pharmaceuticals , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 PI0701700201 Iss .
12 / 2014 Medication Guide GaviLyte - H ( GAV - ee - LITE - H ) and Bisacodyl ( BIS - a - CO - dil ) Delayed - Release Tablet , USP .
( PEG - 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP and other osmotic bowel preparations can cause serious side effects , including : Serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) in your blood .
These changes can cause : • seizures .
This can happen even if you have never had a seizure .
• kidney problems • abnormal heartbeats that can cause death Your chance of having fluid loss and changes in body salts with GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USPis higher if you : • have heart problems • have kidney problems • take water pills or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDS ) Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms of a loss of too much body fluid ( dehydration ) while taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP : • dizziness • urinating less often than normal • headache See “ What are the possible side effects of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ?
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is a prescription medicine used by adults to clean the colon before a colonoscopy .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP cleans your colon by causing you to have diarrhea .
Cleaning your colon helps your healthcare provider see the inside of your colon more clearly during your colonoscopy .
It is not known if GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
Do not take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP if your healthcare provider has told you that you have : • a blockage in your bowel ( obstruction ) • an opening in the wall of your stomach or intestine ( bowel perforation ) • problems with food and fluid emptying from your stomach ( gastric retention ) • a very dilated intestine ( bowel ) • an allergy to any of the ingredients in GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
Before you take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP tell your healthcare provider if you : • have heart problems • have stomach or bowel problems • have ulcerative colitis • have problems with swallowing or gastric reflux • have a history of seizures • are withdrawing from drinking alcohol • have a low blood salt ( sodium ) level • have kidney problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant .
It is not known if GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP may affect how other medicines work .
Medicines taken by mouth may not be absorbed properly when taken within 1 hour before the start of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • medicines for blood pressure or heart problems • medicines for kidney problems • medicines for depression • water pills ( diuretics ) • non - steroidal anti - inflammatory medicines ( NSAID ) pain medicines • laxatives • antacids Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if you are taking any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
See the Patient Directions on the outer product carton for dosing instructions .
You must read , understand , and follow these instructions to take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USPthe right way .
• Take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Do not take other laxatives while taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
• Do not take antacids within 1 hour of taking the bisacodyl tablet .
• Do not chew or crush the bisacodyl tablet .
Take the tablet with water .
• Do not eat solid foods while taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
Only clear liquids are allowed while taking and after taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP until your colonoscopy .
• Stop drinking GaviLyte - H temporarily or allow for longer time between each dose if you have stomach discomfort , pain or bloating until your symptoms improve .
• Stop taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP and call your healthcare provider right away if you develop hives or a rash .
These may be signs of an allergic reaction .
What are the possible side effects of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP ? ”
• changes in certain blood tests .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests after you take GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP to check your blood for changes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any symptoms of too much fluid loss , including : • vomiting • nausea • bloating • dizziness • stomach ( abdominal ) cramping • headache • urinate less than usual • trouble drinking clear liquid • heart problems .
GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP may cause irregular heartbeats .
• seizures • decreased blood flow to the intestine ( ischemic colitis ) .
There have been reports of ischemic colitis in people who have taken GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP at higher doses .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have severe stomach ( abdominal ) pain or rectal bleeding .
These may be symptoms of ischemic colitis .
The most common side effects of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP include : • discomfort • bloating • stomach ( abdominal ) cramping • nausea • vomiting Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
• Store GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
, Excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
• GaviLyte - H solution that has been mixed with water may be refrigerated .
Mixed solution should be taken within 48 hours .
Keep GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP to other people , even if they are going to have the same procedure you are .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in GaviLyte - H and bisacodyldelayed - release tablet , USP ?
Active ingredients bisacodyl tablet : bisacodyl .
Inactive ingredients bisacodyl tablet : lactose ( anhydrous ) NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , magnesium stearate NF , methacrylic acid copolymer , talc , titanium dioxide , triethyl citrate , D & C red # 27 / phloxine aluminum lake , colloidal anhydrous silica , sodium bicarbonate , sodium lauryl sulfate , FD & C blue # 2 / indigo carmine aluminum lake and FD & C yellow # 6 / sunset yellow FCF aluminum lake .
Active ingredients GaviLyte - H : polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate , potassium chloride .
Inactive ingredients GaviLyte - H : cherry , lemon , and orange flavor packs .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Manufactured for : GAVIS Pharmaceuticals LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
PI0701700201 Iss .
12 / 2014 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Carton With Flavor Packs Rx Only New Dose GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP Front Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Side Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Liter Bottle Label GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] Blister GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP Front [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cherry - Flavor Pack GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lemon - Flavor Pack GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Orange - Flavor Pack GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed - release tablet , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
