ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Niacinamide2 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Aqua / Water , Opuntia Coccinellifera Fruit Extract , Simmondsia Chinensis Seed Oil , Glycerin , Ascophyllum , Nodosum Extract , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Butylene Glycol , Epilobium Angustifolium Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Citrus Nobilis Peel Oil , Betaine , Tocopherol , Xanthan Gum , Polyglyceryl - 3 Methylglucose Distearate , Trehalose , Hippophae Rhamnoides Water , Zanthoxylum Piperitum Fruit Extract , Lonicera Japonica Flower Extract , Illicium Verum Fruit Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia Oil , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Citrus Aurantium Amara Leaf / Twig Oil , Citrus Paradisi Fruit Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Allantoin , Sodium Hyaluronate , Disodium Phosphate , Polysorbate 60 , Sodium Phosphate , Caprylyl Glycol , Hydrolyzed Collagen , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , Limonene ** , Linalool ** , Citral ** ** From pure essential oil PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Brightening & firming effect WARNINGS Warnings : 1 ) Do not use on damaged or irritated skin and skin with dermatitis 2 ) Do not use immediately after dermatological treatment or cosmetic surgery . 3 ) Do not use in case of allergy to any of the ingredients 4 ) For external use only .
5 ) Do not use directly before exposure to the sunlight 6 ) Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear and consult with doctor .
7 ) Avoid direct contact with eyes .
8 ) Please be careful if you are irritating to adhesive bandages or patches .
9 ) Store in a cool and dry place , away from direct sunlight and heath ( temperature storage 1 - 30 degrees ) , keep out of the reach of children .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses Uses : Help increase Brightening in the skin Jeju Organic Cactusfruit + blended pure essential oil ( Made by ARC ( RA ) Aromatherapist ) Skin Irritation Test Completed / Eco friendly100 % Cellulose sheet Directions Directions : After washing your face , refine your skin texture with a toner .
Then place the mask on your face avoiding the areas around eyes and mouth .
After 10 to 20 minutes with the mask on , remove the mask and gently pat the remaining active agents on your face until fully absorbed .
For the dry or aging skin types : After using the mask , apply plant - based oil or cream for a better result .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
