[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
See INDICATIONS for specific uses .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % contains lidocaine HCl , which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , monohydrochloride and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The 50 mL screw - cap bottle should not be autoclaved , because the closure employed cannot withstand autoclaving temperatures and pressures .
Composition of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % : Each mL contains lidocaine HCl , 40 mg , methylparaben , purified water , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 6 . 0 - 7 . 0 .
An aqueous solution .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Lidocaine HCl stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Lidocaine HCl may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate of absorption and percent of dose absorbed depending upon concentration and total dose administered , the specific site of application and duration of exposure .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine HCl is well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine HCl is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidney .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine HCl .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine HCl administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine HCl is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine HCl is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine HCl crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine HCl metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine HCl is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine HCl kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine HCl kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine HCl required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 mcg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 to 21 mcg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % is indicated for the production of topical anesthesia of accessible mucous membranes of the oral and nasal cavities and proximal portions of the digestive tract .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine HCl is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % .
WARNINGS IN ORDER TO MANAGE POSSIBLE ADVERSE REACTIONS , RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS MUST BE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE WHEN LOCAL ANESTHETIC AGENTS , SUCH AS LIDOCAINE HCl , ARE ADMINISTERED TO MUCOUS MEMBRANES .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % should be used with extreme caution if there is sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
PRECAUTIONS General The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine HCl depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
Resuscitative equipment , oxygen , and other resuscitative drugs should be available for immediate use ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine HCl may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug or its metabolites .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical status .
Lidocaine HCl should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % should be used with caution in patients with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine HCl .
Although it has been shown that the rate of absorption of lidocaine HCl after spraying the laryngotracheal mucosa with a solution of the local anesthetic agent is normally relatively slow , there is the attendant risk that occasionally some of the solution may gravitate into the lower respiratory tract where surface area for absorption and tissue blood flow are markedly greater .
This can result in unexpectedly rapid and high blood levels , and this possibility must be kept in mind whenever Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % is administered .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspect triggering agent ( s ) and institution of treatment , including oxygen therapy , indicated supportive measures and dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) .
Information for Patients When topical anesthetics are used in the mouth , the patient should be aware that the production of topical anesthesia may impair swallowing and thus enhance the danger of aspiration .
For this reason , food should not be ingested for 60 minutes following use of local anesthetic preparations in the mouth or throat area .
This is particularly important in children because of their frequency of eating .
Numbness of the tongue or buccal mucosa may enhance the danger of unintentional biting trauma .
Food and chewing gum should not be taken while the mouth or throat area is anesthetized .
Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Drug Interactions Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of lidocaine HCl in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Use in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine HCl .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine HCl to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Labor and Delivery Lidocaine HCl is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine HCl , the total dose being administered must be kept in mind .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine HCl is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Dosages in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine HCl are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , doserelated and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central Nervous System CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine HCl is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular System Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other ingredients in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine HCl are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of Local Anesthetic Emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( eg , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine HCl .
The intravenous LD50 of lidocaine HCl in female mice is 26 ( 21 to 31 ) mg / kg and the subcutaneous LD50 is 264 ( 203 to 304 ) mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine HCl , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
The dosage varies and depends upon the area to be anesthetized , vascularity of the tissues , individual tolerance , and the technique of anesthesia .
The lowest dosage needed to provide effective anesthesia should be administered .
Dosages should be reduced for children and for elderly and debilitated patients .
The maximum dose should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large volumes , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
The dosages recommended below are for normal , healthy adults : When used as a spray , or when applied by means of cotton applicators or packs , as when instilled into a cavity , the suggested dosage of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % is 1 to 5 mL ( 40 to 200 mg lidocaine HCl ) , ie , 0 . 6 to 3 mg / kg or 0 . 3 to 1 . 5 mg / lb body weight .
NOTE : The solution may be applied with a sterile swab which is discarded after a single use .
When spraying , transfer the solution from the original container to an atomizer .
MAXIMUM RECOMMENDED DOSAGES Normal Healthy Adults The maximum recommended dose of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % should be such that the dose of lidocaine HCl is kept below 300 mg and in any case should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 mg / lb ) body weight .
Children It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children of less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( eg , Clark ' s rule ) .
For example , in a child of five years weighing 50 lbs , the dose of lidocaine HCl should not exceed 75 to 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ' s rule .
In any case , the maximum dose of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % with epinephrine should not exceed 7 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
When used without epinephrine , the amount of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution , 4 % administered should be such that the dose is kept below 300 mg and in any case should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % is available in 50 mL screw cap glass bottles , individually cartoned .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP , 4 % 50 mL NDC 63739 - 997 - 64 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , New Jersey 08310 Distributed by : McKesson Corporation dba Sky Packaging 4971 Southridge Blvd . , Suite 101 Memphis , TN 38141 PI - 009 - 00 C101427 Rev 02 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mL Bottle Label NDC 63739 - 997 - 64 Lidocaine Hydrochloride Topical Solution USP 4 % ( 40 mg / mL ) NOT FOR INJECTION 50 mL Rx only For Topical Use Only Avoid Contact With Eyes DO NOT INJECT USUAL DOSAGE : Consult package insert for dosage and full prescribing information .
DO NOT INJECT Each mL contains lidocaine hydrochloride 40 mg .
methylparaben 1 mg .
purified water and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid Freezing .
Keep tightly closed .
WARNING : Keep out of the reach of children [ MULTIMEDIA ]
