Description The Leucoflex MTL1 product consists of a blood collection system with 70 mL of CPD for the collecion of 500 + / - 50 mL of blood and 110 mL of AS - 1 Additive Solution .
They are supplied with sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid pathways .
The product as supplied includes an in - line leukoreduction filter known as Leucoflex MTL1 , storage containers for blood components and tubing , a sample diversion pouch ( Bactivam ) , a vacuum tube adapter ( Vacuvam ) , and a protective shield for the used needle ( Secuvam ) .
Representative Product Drawing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Intended Use The " Leucoflex MTL1 Leukocyte Reduction Filter for Whole Blood " is intended for the pre - storage leukoreduction of whole blood initiated between 4 and 7 hours after collection if whole blood is stored at ambient temperature , or between 4 and 8 hours of storage at 1 to 6 C .
The collection set provides for subsequent preparation of AS - 1 Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced ( adenine saline added ) and Plasma , Leukocytes Reduced in a closed system .
The AS - 1 Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced and Plasma , Leukocytes Reduced may then be stored for the maximum allowable dating periods .
WARNING • Avoid contact with sharp objects .
• DO NOT USE if the overwrap or blood bag system shows any signs of deterioration .
• DO NOT USE if the solutions are not clear .
• Dispose of all system components that have been contaminated with blood in a biohazard container as per your institution ' s SOP .
• Dispose of all sharps as per your institution ' s SOP .
CAUTIONS • Do not fold or squeeze the Leucolex MTL1 filter .
Inappropriate handling may adversely affect filtration .
• Check for kinks in the tubing prior to collection and filtration .
• Rx only .
The protective shield for needle Secuvam ( A ) and the vacuum tube adapter Vacuvam ( B ) features of the collection set aid in the safe collection of vacuum tube samples from the sample diversion pouch Bactivam ( C ) and the disposal of donor needles after blood collection by providing protection from accidental needlestick .
All or part of this medical device is made of PVC plasticized with DEHP .
According to some studies , DEHP could potentially be harmful to the reproductive system of male fetuses .
The prescriber is solely responsible for choosing to use this device on women who are either pregnant or breast - feeding , or on young male infants .
Nevertheless , DEHP - plasticized PVC is in compliance with the European Pharmacopeia .
Risks linked to the reuse : Septic risk .
All maunfacturing processes and all components in contact with the donors , the users and the blood components dedicated to the patients are not made with natural rubber latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] COLLECTION AND SAMPLING PROCEDURE Before Donation 1 ) Peel open the transparent overwrap ( D ) using the corner flap .
2 ) Support blood bag system as far as possible below donor arm , ideally on an automated blood mixer .
Note : it is recommended that the primary bag on the mixer lies with the tubing on the lower side of the mixer holding plate .
3 ) Apply tourniquet or pressure cuff ( inflate to approximately 60 mm Hg ) .
4 ) Prepare venipuncture site as per your SOP .
5 ) Ensure that the donor line is not twisted or tangled .
Venipucture 1 ) Open the needle cap ( E1 ) using the following procedure : a ) Twist the needle cap , thus breaking the seal .
b ) Lift the cap off of the needle ( E2 ) in a straight line taking special care not to touch the needle in the process ( F ) .
Keep hands behind the needle at all times during set use and disposal .
2 ) Perform the venipuncture 3 ) After the needle has been inserted , introduce the Secuvam onto the hub of the needle .
4 ) Tape the Secuvam onto the donor ' s arm .
Note : if the Secuvam causes discomfort to the donor or decreases the blood flow because of the angle of the needle , leave the Secuvam on the tubing , behind the needle hub ( G ) during collection .
Secure the needle into the Secuvam at the end of the donation ( H ) .
After Venipuncture 1 ) Ensure that the clamp between the Bactivam pouch and the donation line is open .
2 ) Ensure that the Bactivam pouch is held below the level of the venipuncture site , and is supported at all times .
3 ) Allow blood to run into the Bacivam pouch until the pouch fills ( approximately 30 ml ) ( I ) .
4 ) Close the red clamp ( I1 ) on the transfer line to the Bactivam pouch , by holding the clamp in one hand and squeezing the two edges together , until it locks ( a click my be heard ) .
Note : the red clamp cannot be opened after it has snapped shut .
5 ) Break the break - away cannula ( I2 ) on the donor line by holding the cannula in one hand and the plastic Y - junction in the other and snapping the cannula both left and right to ensure a clean break .
Allow the donation procedure to continue , ensuring that the blood bag is mixed immediately when blood flows into the primary bag .
Note : This step may be done prior to venipuncture if the Blue Roberts clamp ( I3 ) on the donor line is closed prior to breaking the break - away cannula .
6 ) If using an automated mixer , open the mixer clamp and start the mixer at this point .
Note : it is recommended that the primary bag on the mixer lies with the tubing on the lower side of the mixer holding plate .
7 ) After approximately 50 ml of blood enters the primary bag , mix thoroughly ( when possible ) .
Note : Collect the quantity of blood stated on the blood bag label .
Sampling Procedure Note : this is done during the donation .
Avoid air in the collection of sample tubes from the diversion pouch to ensure adequate sample volume and avoid hemolysis .
1 ) Hold the Bactivam pouch with the Vacuvam below it ( J ) , to ensure good blood flow from the pouch to the sampling device , and no introduction of air into the sampling tubes .
2 ) Remove the cap of the Vacuvam sampling device , and retain for later use ( when possible ) .
3 ) Introduce a vacuum sampling tube by holding the barrel of the Vacuvam and directing the sample tube cap directly onto the needle inside the device ( J1 ) .
4 ) Blood is drawn automatically into the sampling tube , stopping at the appropriate volume .
5 ) When the sample tube stops filling , withdraw the tube , ensuring that the tube is pulled out of the barrel in a straight line .
6 ) Repeat the sampling procedure steps ( 3 to 5 ) with all remaining sampling tubes .
7 ) When all samples have been taken , replace the Vacuvam cap to prevent accidental access to the interior needle ( when possible ) .
8 ) Mix the blood in the primary bag regularly ( approximately every 100 ml or every minute ) .
After Donation 1 ) Once the required volume of blood has been collected , close the red clamp on the donor line ( J2 ) , at least 12 inches above the primary bag .
Note : if necessary , place a Hemostat on the collection line just below the Secuvam .
2 ) Release the pressure cuff or tourniquet , and immediately mix the whole blood in the primary bag .
Note : if the needle was taped to the arm , and not the Secuvam , remove the tape from the needle before pulling the needle into the Secuvam ( disregard step 3 ) .
3 ) Remove the tape holding the Secuvam in place .
4 ) Remove the needle by gently pulling the needle into the barrel of the Secuvam while supporting the Secuvam with one hand ( a click may be heard ) .
Note : if necessary , step 4 may be done before step 3 .
5 ) Remove and discard the cap ( if relevant ) from the barrel of the Vacuvam , into an appropriate container .
6 ) Insert the Secuvam needle protector into the barrel of the Vacuvam sampling device .
7 ) After removing the blood from the mixer / trip scale , mix the blood unit thoroughly .
8 ) If the donor line is to be used for quality control , strip the line as per procedure ( at least 3 times ) , heat - seal ( place clips ) and cut ( between the clips ) , leaving sufficient line for testing purposes .
Note : if it is necessary to strip the donor line , it is recommended to strip within 4 minutes of the end of the donation , in order to avoid introducing clots into the blood bag .
9 ) Ideally , heat - seal the donor line as close as possible to the pack ( ~ 1 inch ) .
Alternatively , place clips close to the blood pack and cut between the clips .
Mix thoroughly during and immediately after the procedure .
Note : this is an in - line filter system ; there is no need to keep the donor line for cross - matching segments .
10 ) Remove and discard the donor line ( K ) with the two red clamps , Bactivam , Vacuvam and Secuvam as per SOP .
Note : the completely protected needle after securing the Secuvam inside the rigid Vacuvam sleeve can be disposed of in general biowaste vs . a sharps container [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] COMPONENT PREPARATION GENERAL 1 to 6 C Filtration : Ensure that the whole blood to be filtered at cold temperature has reached 1 to 6 C and has been stored between 4 and 8 hours at 1 to 6 C .
The height of the unit for filtration should be 72 to 76 inches .
Ambient ( 20 to 24 C ) Filtration : Whole blood filtration may be initiated at room temperature between 4 and 7 hours after collection .
Filtrations performed at ambient temperatures should be completed within eight hours of collection .
The height of the unit for filtration should be 55 to 60 inches .
CAUTION : · Do not fold or manhandle the filters ( L ) .
· Do not apply pressure , either mechanical or human , to increase the flow rate of the filter .
· Units with decreased or extended filtration times may not be adequately leukoreduced , and should be evaluated for residual leukocytes and red blood cell recovery before release .
Consult training materials for more information on expected length of filtration times and the applicable hold periods in clinical study data .
· Failure to achieve and maintain a closed system throughout processing results in a product that must be stored at 1 to 6 C and transfused within 24 hours .
· Fresh Frozen Plasma should be prepared between 4 and 8 hours of the whole blood donation .
· Fresh Frozen Plasma should be stored at minus 18 C or colder .
· The AS - 1 additive solution must be added to the red blood cells without delay after the separation of the plasma .
Whole blood in CPD alone may be stored at 1 to 6 C for up to 21 days .
· The filter has been designed and validated to meet the criteria of a leukoreduction filter for whole blood .
The filter ' s performance must be validated using your facility ' s standard operating procedure ( SOP ) on component preparation and handling .
Any filtration that fails to meet the filtration specifications established by the facility ' s validation should be evaluated for residual leukocytes and red blood cell ( RBC ) recovery after filtration .
Note that unusual attributes such as sickle cell trait , cold agglutinins , blood clotting and gel formation , and poor mixing during collection and processing of components can contribute to the failure of a filtration to meet filtration specifications .
Faiure to adequately re - suspend RBC by mixing the whole blood unit thoroughly prior to filtration can result in blocked filters .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WHOLE BLOOD LEUKOREDUCTION 1 ) Mix the blood well .
2 ) Suspend the blood bag at a height of 55 to 60 inches if filtering at room temperature ( 20 to 24 C ) or 72 to 76 inches if filtering at cold temperature ( 1 to 6 C ) .
3 ) Break the break - away cannula ( M ) on the blood bag leading to the Leucoflex MTL1 filter , by bending the cannula with a side - to - side motion .
4 ) Allow the blood to flow by gravity through the Leucoflex MTL1 filter into the transfer bag .
Note : Determine the status of the filtation as follows : If there is no blood flowing from below the filter , the filter is flat and the filter media is visible on the inlet side , filtration is complete .
5 ) Ensure there is a temporary clamp between the Leucoflex MTL1 filter and the leukoreduced blood .
6 ) If required , purge the air from the leukoreduced blood back into the flexible Leucoflex MTL1 filter ( the filter will expand ) , filling the segment tubing with blood .
7 ) Close the temporary clamp before separating the blood and attached satellites .
8 ) Heat seal the segment tubing just below the Leucoflex MTL1 filter , and all along the segment tubing between the printed numbers .
Note : Do not strip the tubing below the leukocyte reduction filter .
Such stripping may pull leukocytes through the filter .
9 ) Heat seal and discard the empty collection bag , Leucoflex MTL1 filter , temporary clamp and tubing as per SOP .
Note : Ensure that the temporary clamp is not left on the segment tubing .
10 ) Centrifuge the blood , satellite bag , and additive solution bag together under conditions designed to produce a separation of plasma and red blood cells .
11 ) Place the centrifuged blood carefully into a plasma extractor , and gently release the pressure plate .
12 ) Break the break - away cannula on the blood bag by bending the cannula with a side - to - side motion .
13 ) Express Plasma into the empty transfer bag .
If Cryoprecipitate AHF ( Anti - Hemophilic Factor ) will be manufactured from this Plasma , put a temporary clamp between the " Y " connector ( N ) and the plasma bag ; otherwise , add a permanent clamp .
14 ) Break the break - away cannula on the additive solution bag by bending the cannula with a side - to - side motion .
15 ) Suspend the additive solution ( AS - 1 ) bag above the RBC bag so that the additive solution drains completely into the RBC without delay .
Note : The additive solution must be mixed thoroughly with the AS - 1 Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced .
16 ) Heat seal and disconnect the Plasma , Leukocytes Reduced ( and any attached transfer bags ) as per SOP .
Quality control testing should be performed monthly to demonstrate that the WBC content of the plasma is < 5 x 10 6 per container if the Plasma or Cryoprecipitated AHF will be labeled as Leukocytes Reduced .
17 ) Store the AS - 1 Red Blood Cells , Leukocytes Reduced at 1 - 6 C for up to 42 days .
18 ) Should Cryoprecipitated AHF be manufactured , process the plasma bag and attached empty transfer bag as per SOP .
Clinical Studies Holding Time , Residual WBC and Percent RBC Recovery WARNING : If unit is spiked for any reason , storage is limited to 24 hours at 1 to 6 C before transfusion .
Filtration Temperature n Holding Time ( Hrs ) Mean ( Range ) Residual WBC ( x 10 6 / unit ) Mean + / - SD Percentage RBC Recovery Mean + / - SD 20 to 24 C 61 5 . 1 ( 4 . 1 - 6 . 7 ) 0 . 417 + / - 0 . 533 91 . 1 + / - 3 . 0 1 to 6 C 30 5 . 1 ( 4 . 6 - 6 . 1 ) 0 . 197 + / - 0 . 131 89 . 9 + / - 1 . 9 NOTE : If either face of the filter remains white , the Whole Blood Unit has not been leucoreduced and must be discarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HANDLING OF PORT PROTECTORS 1 ) Using both hands tear the port protector as indicated .
( O ) 2 ) Hold down the port protector pieces with one hand .
( P ) 3 ) Using the free hand , take the spike and engage into the port .
( Q ) 4 ) Twist the spike to secure fully in port .
( Q ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labels : Bag 1 Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution USP ; Bag 4 Additive Solution AS - 1 ; Overwrap ; Carton Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Solution , USP - Bag 1 Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additive Solution AS - 1 - Bag 4 Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERWRAP LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] CARTON LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
