Active ingredients Octinoxate , 4 . 0 % Titanium Dioxide , 2 . 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , talc , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , potassium cetyl phosphate , cyclopentasiloxane , glyceryl myristate , isononyl isononanoate , behenyl alcohol , mineral oil , glycerin , propylene glycol , microcrystalline cellulose , cellulose gum , phenoxyethanol , ethylhexylglycerin , iron oxides , nylon - 12 , fragrance , triethanolamine , ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , butylene glycol , allantoin , caffeine , ascorbyl glucoside , disodium EDTA , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , BHT , hyaluronic acid .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Awaken by Quality Choice ® BB cream medium / dark Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen Skin perfector With vitamin C & mineral pigments Renews , brightens , evens tone & hydrates Oil free , non - greasy * Compare to Garnier ® Skin Renew Miracle Skin Perfector B . B . Cream SPF15 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 75 mL ) This BB Cream medium / dark Broad Spectrum SPF15 Sunscreen is a unique innovation that combines many steps of your daily beauty routine into one .
It is lightweight , easy to use , and provides almost instant results that you can see and feel .
This innovative formula is designed to deeply moisturize and help even skin tone , resulting in a smooth and unblemished appearance .
The Results Skin instantly looks more even - toned , smooth and radiant .
• • Radiance is renewed .
• • Complexion is brightened .
• • Skin tone is evened out and imperfections are blurred .
• • 24 - hour hydration .
• • SPF15 sunscreen protects against the harmful effects of the sun .
Directions for Use Gently smooth BB Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen onto face and neck prior to exposure to the sun .
Formula essentials : • • Dermatology tested • • Non - Comedogenic ( won ’ t clog pores ) • • Gentle to skin • • Non - greasy Why is this product for me ?
Skin discolorations , dullness , blemishes and dryness can be caused by a number of different factors .
It is difficult to find one product that will address all these factors at once .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Garnier ® , owner of the registered trademark Skin Renew Satisfaction Guaranteed Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 Manufactured in ISRAEL 6D118 CD C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
