Instructions for Pharmacist Page 1 Page 2 NDC 70332 - 102 - 01 For Prescription Compounding Only Rx only RapidPaq ™ CYCLOPHENE ™ ( 5 % cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride topical cream kit ) RapidPaq ™ kits provide a convenient approach to rapidly prepare prescription medications , as all components are pre - measured .
This kit is manufactured according to US FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices ( cGMP ) .
Description : This kit contains active and inactive materials to prepare approximately 111 . 2 grams of Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride topical cream .
This kit may only be used for prescription compounding by an appropriate licensed medical professional , in response to a physician ' s prescription , to create a medication tailored to the specialized needs of an individual patient .
Active Ingredients : - 5 . 6 g Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride [ equivalent to 4 . 9 g Cyclobenzaprine ] Inactive Ingredients : - 100 g RapidPaq Cream Base ( D . l Water , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cyclomethicone , Polysorbate - 60 , Sorbitol , Phenoxyethanol ( and ) ethylhexylglycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe Barbadensis , Disodium EDTA ) - 5 . 6 Ethoxy Diglycol - Spatula - Instructions Pharmacist Instructions for Preparation 1 Remove and Inspect the Contents of the Kit Ensure that all components are present .
Ensure that the safety seals are present on the Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride , ethoxy diglycol and RapidPaq Cream Base .
If components are missing or the safety seals are not intact do not use the kit .
2 Prepare for Mixing Wear gloves and eye protection during mixing operations .
Remove the cap and seal from the RapidPaq Cream Base .
Break the perforated seal and remove the cap from the Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride and ethoxy diglycol .
3 Dissolve the Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Using a spatula make a well in the center of the RapidPaq Cream Base .
Transfer approximately half of the ethoxy diglycol to the Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride bottle .
Cap the Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride bottle and shake to ensure that all residue Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride has been dissolved .
Pour the contents into the RapidPaq Cream Base .
Repeat this step with the remaining ethoxy diglycol .
4 Complete the Mixing Process Using the spatula , mix the RapidPaq Base jar that now contains the ethoxy diglycol and cyclobenazprine hydrochloride ingredients thoroughly for about 2 minutes or until fully dissolved .
5 Relabel the Resulting Cream Label the resulting topical cream as required for prescription products .
Ensure that the original RapidPaq Cream Base label is removed or obscured , since the original label is no longer accurate once the cream is prepared .
Discard the spatula .
Store the unused kit at room temperature of 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Once prepared , store the topical cream between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The final cream is stable for up to eight weeks .
U . S . Patents Pending Repackaged and Distributed by : California Pharmaceuticals , LLC 768 Calle Plano Camarillo , CA 93012 California PHARMACEUTICALS LLC CS107 - A1 rev 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride product label Do not use if saety seal is broken Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride 1 - propanamine , 3 - ( 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cycloheptenn - 5 - ylidene ) - N , N - dimethyl - , hydrochloride RxOnly CAS # 6202 - 23 - 9 Net contents 5 . 6 g Repackaged by : California Pharmaceuticals , LLC Camarillo , CA 93012 California PHARMACEUTICALS LLC CS104 - A1 rev 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RapidPaq Cream Base product label Do not use if seal is broken RapidPaq ™ Cream base Net contents : 100 g Ingredients : ( D . l Water , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cyclomethicone , Polysorbate - 60 , Sorbitol , Phenoxyethanol ( and ) ethylhexylglycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe barbadensis , Disodium EDTA . )
RX Only Manufactured for California Pharmaceyticals , LLC , Camarillo , CA 93012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CYCLOPHENE Kit product label NDC 70332 - 102 - 01 Rx only RapidPaq ™ Kit for Topical Cream CYCLOPHENE ™ ( 5 % cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride topical cream kit ) Muscle relaxant Store at room temperature , 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Description : This kit contains active and inactive materials to prepare approximately 111 . 2 grams of Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride topical cream .
This kit may only be used for prescription compounding by an appropriate licensed medical professional , in response to a physician ' s prescription , to create a medication tailored to the specialized needs of an individual patient .
Active ingredient - 5 . 6 g Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride USP [ equivalent to 4 . 9 g Cyclobenzaprine ] Inactive Ingredients : - 100 g RapidPaq Cream Base ( D . l Water , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cyclomethicone , Polysorbate - 60 , Sorbitol , Phenoxyethanol ( and ) ethylhexylglycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe Barbadensis , Disodium EDTA ) - 5 . 6 g Ethoxy Diglycol - Spatula - Instructions U . S . Patents Pending Do not use if safety seal is broken California PHARMACEUTICALS LLC Repacked and Distributed By ; Caifornis Pharmaceuticals , LLC 768 Calle Plano Camarillo , CA 93012 CS 108 - A1 rev 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
