Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % ...................................................
Anti - itch Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , and psoriasis • for temporary relief of external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetanol , liquid paraffin , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene cetyether , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol DISTRIBUTED BY C . D . M . A . , INC .
43157 W . NINE MILE NOVI , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com MADE IN KOREA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
