WARNING LACTIC ACIDOSIS AND SEVERE HEPATOMEGALY WITH STEATOSIS , INCLUDING FATAL CASES , HAVE BEEN REPORTED WITH THE USE OF NUCLEOSIDE ANALOGUES ALONE OR IN COMBINATION , INCLUDING STAVUDINE AND OTHER ANTIRETROVIRALS .
FATAL LACTIC ACIDOSIS HAS BEEN REPORTED IN PREGNANT WOMEN WHO RECEIVED THE COMBINATION OF STAVUDINE AND DIDANOSINE WITH OTHER ANTIRETROVIRAL AGENTS .
THE COMBINATION OF STAVUDINE AND DIDANOSINE SHOULD BE USED WITH CAUTION DURING PREGNANCY AND IS RECOMMENDED ONLY IF THE POTENTIAL BENEFIT CLEARLY OUTWEIGHS THE POTENTIAL RISK ( SEE WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS : PREGNANCY ) FATAL AND NONFATAL PANCREATITIS HAVE OCCURRED DURING THERAPY WHEN STAVUDINE WAS PART OF A COMBINATION REGIMEN THAT INCLUDED DIDANOSINE , IN BOTH TREATMENT - NAIVE AND TREATMENT - EXPERIENCED PATIENTS , REGARDLESS OF DEGREE OF IMMUNOSUPPRESSION ( SEE WARNINGS ) DESCRIPTION Stavudine ( d4T ) , a synthetic thymidine nucleoside analogue , active against the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) .
Stavudine Capsules are supplied for oral administration in strengths of 15 , 20 , 30 , and 40 mg of stavudine .
Each capsule also contains inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , lactose anhydrous , and magnesium stearate .
The hard gelatin shell consists of gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and iron oxides . The capsules are printed with Black ink containing black iron oxide E172 dye .
The chemical name for stavudine is 2 ' , 3 ' - didehydro - 3 ' - deoxythymidine .
Stavudine has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stavudine is a white to off - white crystalline solid with the molecular formula C10 H12 N2 O4 and a molecular weight of 224 . 2 .
The solubility of stavudine at 23 ° C is approximately 83 mg / mL in water and 30 mg / mL in propylene glycol .
The n - octanol / water partition coefficient of stavudine at 23 ° C is 0 . 144 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Stavudine , a nucleoside analogue of thymidine , is phosphorylated by cellular kinases to the active metabolite stavudine triphosphate .
Stavudine triphosphate inhibits the activity of HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase ( RT ) by competing with the natural substrate thymidine triphosphate ( Ki = 0 . 0083 to 0 . 032 μM ) and by causing DNA chain termination following its incorporation into viral DNA .
Stavudine triphosphate inhibits cellular DNA polymerases β and γ and markedly reduces the synthesis of mitochondrial DNA .
Antiviral Activity The cell culture antiviral activity of stavudine was measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells , monocytic cells , and lymphoblastoid cell lines .
The concentration of drug necessary to inhibit HIV - 1 replication by 50 % ( EC50 ) ranged from 0 . 009 to 4 μM against laboratory and clinical isolates of HIV - 1 .
In cell culture , stavudine exhibited additive to antagonistic activity in combination with zidovudine .
Stavudine in combination with either abacavir , didanosine , tenofovir , or zalcitabine exhibited additive to synergistic anti - HIV - 1 activity .
Ribavirin , at the 9 - 45 μM concentrations tested , reduced the anti - HIV - 1 activity of stavudine by 2 . 5 - to 5 - fold .
The relationship between cell culture susceptibility of HIV - 1 to stavudine and the inhibition of HIV - 1 replication in humans has not been established .
Drug Resistance HIV - 1 isolates with reduced susceptibility to stavudine have been selected in cell culture ( strain - specific ) and were also obtained from patients treated with stavudine .
Phenotypic analysis of HIV - 1 isolates from 61 patients receiving prolonged ( 6 - 29 months ) stavudine monotherapy showed that post - therapy isolates from four patients exhibited EC50 values more than 4 - fold ( range 7 - to 16 - fold ) higher than the average pretreatment susceptibility of baseline isolates .
Of these , HIV - 1 isolates from one patient contained the zidovudine - resistance - associated mutations T215Y and K219E , and isolates from another patient contained the multiple - nucleoside - resistance - associated mutation Q151M .
Mutations in the RT gene of HIV - 1 isolates from the other two patients were not detected .
The genetic basis for stavudine susceptibility changes has not been identified .
Cross - resistance Cross - resistance among HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase inhibitors has been observed .
Several studies have demonstrated that prolonged stavudine treatment can select and / or maintain mutations associated with zidovudine resistance .
HIV - 1 isolates with one or more zidovudine - resistance - associated mutations ( M41L , D67N , K70R , L210W , T215Y / F , K219Q / E ) exhibited reduced susceptibility to stavudine in cell culture .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of stavudine have been evaluated in HIV - infected adult and pediatric patients ( Tables 1 - 3 ) .
Peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) increased in proportion to dose after both single and multiple doses ranging from 0 . 03 to 4 mg / kg .
There was no significant accumulation of stavudine with repeated administration every 6 , 8 , or 12 hours .
Absorption Following oral administration , stavudine is rapidly absorbed , with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 1 hour after dosing .
Steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of stavudine in HIV - infected adults are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Stavudine in HIV - Infected AdultsParameter Stavudine 40 mg BID Mean ± SD ( n = 8 ) AUC ( ng • h / mL ) a 2568 ± 454 Cmax ( ng / mL ) 536 ± 146 Cmin ( ng / mL ) 8 ± 9 afrom 0 to 24 hours AUC = area under the curve over 24 hours .
Cmax = maximum plasma concentration .
Cmin = trough or minimum plasma concentration .
Distribution Binding of stavudine to serum proteins was negligible over the concentration range of 0 . 01 to 11 . 4µg / mL .
Stavudine distributes equally between red blood cells and plasma .
Volume of distribution is shown in Table 2 .
Metabolism Metabolism plays a limited role in the clearance of stavudine .
Unchanged stavudine was the major drug - related component circulating in plasma after an 80 - mg dose of 14 C - stavudine , while metabolites constituted minor components of the circulating radioactivity .
Minor metabolites include oxidized stavudine , glucuronide conjugates of stavudine and its oxidized metabolite , and an N - acetylcysteine conjugate of the ribose after glycosidic cleavage , suggesting that thymine is also a metabolite of stavudine .
Elimination Following an 80 - mg dose of 14 C - stavudine to healthy subjects , approximately 95 % and 3 % of the total radioactivity was recovered in urine and feces , respectively .
Radioactivity due to parent drug in urine and feces was 73 . 7 % and 62 . 0 % , respectively .
The mean terminal elimination half - life is approximately 2 . 3 hours following single oral doses .
Mean renal clearance of the parent compound is approximately 272 mL / min , accounting for approximately 67 % of the apparent oral clearance In HIV - infected patients , renal elimination of unchanged drug accounts for about 40 % of the overall clearance regardless of the route of administration ( Table 2 ) .
The mean renal clearance was about twice the average endogenous creatinine clearance , indicating active tubular secretion in addition to glomerular filtration .
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Stavudine in HIV - Infected Adults : Bioavailability , Distribution , and ClearanceParameter Mean ± SD n Oral bioavailability ( % ) 86 . 4 ± 18 . 2 25 Volume of distribution ( L ) a 46 ± 21 44 Total body clearance ( mL / min ) a 594 ± 164 44 Apparent oral clearance ( mL / min ) b 560 ± 182 c 113 Renal clearance ( mL / min ) a 237 ± 98 39 Elimination half - life , IV dose ( h ) a 1 . 15 ± 0 . 35 44 Elimination half - life , oral dose ( h ) b 1 . 6 ± 0 . 23 8 Urinary recovery of stavudine ( % of dose ) a , d 42 ± 14 39 a following 1 - hour IV infusion .
b following single oral dose .
c assuming a body weight of 70 kg .
d over 12 - 24 hours .
Special Populations Pediatric For pharmacokinetic properties of stavudine in pediatric patients see Table 3 .
Table 3 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) of Stavudine in HIV - Exposed or - Infected Pediatric PatientsParameter Ages 5 weeks to 15 years n Ages 14 to 28 days n Day of Birth n Oral bioavailability ( % ) 76 . 9 ± 31 . 7 20 ND ND Volume of distribution ( L / kg ) a 0 . 73 ± 0 . 32 21 ND ND Ratio of CSF : plasma concentrations ( as % ) b 59 ± 35 8 ND ND Total body clearance ( mL / min / kg ) a 9 . 75 ± 3 . 76 21 ND ND Apparent oral clearance ( mL / min / kg ) c 13 . 75 ± 4 . 29 20 11 . 52 ± 5 . 93 30 5 . 08 ± 2 . 80 17 Elimination half - life , IV dose ( h ) a 1 . 11 ± 0 . 28 21 ND ND Elimination half - life , oral dose ( h ) c 0 . 96 ± 0 . 26 20 1 . 59 ± 0 . 29 30 5 . 27 ± 2 . 01 17 Urinary recovery of stavudine ( % of dose ) c , d 34 ± 16 19 ND ND a following 1 - hour IV infusion .
b at median time of 2 . 5 hours ( range 2 - 3 hours ) following multiple oral doses .
c following single oral dose .
d over 8 hours .
ND = not determined .
Renal Impairment Data from two studies in adults indicated that the apparent oral clearance of stavudine decreased and the terminal elimination half - life increased as creatinine clearance decreased ( see Table 4 ) .
Cmax and Tmax were not significantly altered by renal impairment .
The mean ± SD hemodialysis clearance value of stavudine was 120 ± 18 mL / min ( n = 12 ) ; the mean ± SD percentage of the stavudine dose recovered in the dialysate , timed to occur between 2 - 6 hours post - dose , was 31 ± 5 % .
Based on these observations , it is recommended that stavudine dosage be modified in patients with reduced creatinine clearance and in patients receiving maintenance hemodialysis ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Table 4 : Mean ± SD Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values of Stavudinea in Adults with Varying Degrees of Renal FunctionCreatinine Clearance Hemodialysis Patients b n = 11 > 50 mL / min n = 10 26 - 50 mL / min n = 5 9 - 25 mL / min n = 5 Creatinine clearance ( mL / min ) 104 ± 28 41 ± 5 17 ± 3 NA Apparent oral clearance ( mL / min ) 335 ± 57 191 ± 39 116 ± 25 105 ± 17 Renal clearance ( mL / min ) 167 ± 65 73 ± 18 17 ± 3 NA T ½ ( h ) 1 . 7 ± 0 . 4 3 . 5 ± 2 . 5 4 . 6 ± 0 . 9 5 . 4 ± 1 . 4 a Single 40 - mg oral dose .
b Determined while patients were off dialysis .
T ½ = terminal elimination half - life .
NA = not applicable .
Hepatic Impairment Stavudine pharmacokinetics were not altered in five non - HIV - infected patients with hepatic impairment secondary to cirrhosis ( Child - Pugh classification B or C ) following the administration of a single 40 - mg dose .
Geriatric Stavudine pharmacokinetics have not been studied in patients > 65 years of age .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use . )
Gender A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data collected during a controlled clinical study in HIV - infected patients showed no clinically important differences between males ( n = 291 ) and females ( n = 27 ) .
Race A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data collected during a controlled clinical study in HIV - infected patients showed no clinically important differences between races ( n = 233 Caucasian , 39 African - American , 41 Hispanic , 1 Asian , and 4 other ) .
Drug Interactions ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) Zidovudine : Zidovudine competitively inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of stavudine .
Therefore , use of zidovudine in combination with stavudine should be avoided .
Doxorubicin : In vitro data indicate that the phosphorylation of stavudine is inhibited at relevant concentrations by doxorubicin .
Ribavirin : In vitro data indicate ribavirin reduces phosphorylation of lamivudine , stavudine , and zidovudine .
However , no pharmacokinetic ( eg , plasma concentrations or intracellular triphosphorylated active metabolite concentrations ) or pharmacodynamic ( eg , loss of HIV / HCV virologic suppression ) interaction was observed when ribavirin and lamivudine ( n = 18 ) , stavudine ( n = 10 ) , or zidovudine ( n = 6 ) were coadministered as part of a multi - drug regimen to HIV / HCV co - infected patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Stavudine does not inhibit the major cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 ; therefore , it is unlikely that clinically significant drug interactions will occur with drugs metabolized through these pathways .
Because stavudine is not protein - bound , it is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of protein - bound drugs .
Tables 5 and 6 summarize the effects on AUC and Cmax , with a 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) when available , following coadministration of stavudine with didanosine , lamivudine , and nelfinavir .
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed .
Table 5 : Results of Drug Interaction Studies with Stavudine : Effects of Coadministered Drug on Stavudine Plasma AUC and Cmax ValuesDrug Stavudine Dosage na AUC of Stavudine ( 95 % CI ) Cmax of Stavudine ( 95 % CI ) Didanosine , 100 mg q12h for 4 days 40 mg q12h for 4 days 10 ↔ ↑ 17 % Lamivudine , 150 mg single dose 40 mg single dose 18 ↔ ( 92 . 7 - 100 . 6 % ) ↑ 12 % ( 100 . 3 - 126 . 1 % ) Nelfinavir , 750 mg q8h for 56 days 30 - 40 mg q12h for 56 days 8 ↔ ↔ ↑ indicates increase .
↔ indicates no change , or mean increase or decrease of < 10 % .
a HIV - infected patients .
Table 6 : Results of Drug Interaction Studies with Stavudine : Effects of Stavudine on Coadministered Drug Plasma AUC and CmaxValuesDrug Stavudine Dosage na AUC of Coadministered Drug ( 95 % CI ) Cmax of Coadministered Drug ( 95 % CI ) Didanosine , 100 mg q12h for 4 days 40 mg q12h for 4 days 10 ↔ ↔ Lamivudine , 150 mg single dose 40 mg single dose 18 ↔ ( 90 . 5 - 107 . 6 % ) ↔ ( 87 . 1 - 110 . 6 % ) Nelfinavir , 750 mg q8h for 56 days 30 - 40 mg q12h for 56 days 8 ↔ ↔ ↔ indicates no change , or mean increase or decrease of < 10 % .
a HIV - infected patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Stavudine capsules , in combination with other antiretroviral agents , is indicated for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection ( see Clinical Studies ) .
Clinical Studies Combination Therapy The combination use of stavudine is based on the results of clinical studies in HIV - infected patients in double - and triple - combination regimens with other antiretroviral agents .
One of these studies ( START 1 ) was a multicenter , randomized , open - label study comparing stavudine ( 40 mg twice daily ) plus lamivudine plus indinavir to zidovudine plus lamivudine plus indinavir in 202 treatment - naive patients .
Both regimens resulted in a similar magnitude of inhibition of HIV RNA levels and increases in CD4 cell counts through 48 weeks .
Monotherapy The efficacy of stavudine was demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind study ( AI455 – 019 , conducted 1992 - 1994 ) comparing stavudine with zidovudine in 822 patients with a spectrum of HIV - related symptoms .
The outcome in terms of progression of HIV disease and death was similar for both drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Stavudine is contraindicated in patients with clinically significant hypersensitivity to stavudine or to any of the components contained in the formulation .
WARNINGS 1 .
Lactic Acidosis / Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis : Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues alone or in combination , including stavudine and other antiretrovirals .
Although relative rates of lactic acidosis have not been assessed in prospective well - controlled trials , longitudinal cohort and retrospective studies suggest that this infrequent event may be more often associated with antiretroviral combinations containing stavudine .
Female gender , obesity , and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors .
Fatal lactic acidosis has been reported in pregnant women who received the combination of stavudine and didanosine with other antiretroviral agents .
The combination of stavudine and didanosine should be used with caution during pregnancy and is recommended only if the potential benefit clearly outweighs the potential risk ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy ) .
Particular caution should be exercised when administering stavudine to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease ; however , cases of lactic acidosis have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors .
Generalized fatigue , digestive symptoms ( nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and unexplained weight loss ) ; respiratory symptoms ( tachypnea and dyspnea ) ; or neurologic symptoms ( including motor weakness , see 3 .
Neurologic Symptoms ) might be indicative of the development of symptomatic hyperlactatemia or lactic acidosis syndrome .
Treatment with stavudine should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of symptomatic hyperlactatemia , lactic acidosis , or pronounced hepatotoxicity ( which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations ) .
2 .
Hepatic Impairment and Toxicity : The safety and efficacy of stavudine have not been established in HIV - infected patients with significant underlying liver disease .
During combination antiretroviral therapy , patients with preexisting liver dysfunction , including chronic active hepatitis , have an increased frequency of liver function abnormalities , including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse events , and should be monitored according to standard practice .
If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such patients , interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered .
An increased risk of hepatotoxicity may occur in patients treated with stavudine in combination with didanosine and hydroxyurea compared to when stavudine is used alone .
Deaths attributed to hepatotoxicity have occurred in patients receiving this combination .
This combination should be avoided .
Use with Interferon and Ribavirin - Based Regimens In vitro studies have shown ribavirin can reduce the phosphorylation of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues such as stavudine .
Although no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic ( eg , loss of HIV / HCV virologic suppression ) interaction was seen when ribavirin was coadministered with stavudine in HIV / HCV co - infected patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions ) , hepatic decompensation ( some fatal ) has occurred in HIV / HCV co - infected patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV and interferon and ribavirin .
Patients receiving interferon with or without ribavirin and stavudine should be closely monitored for treatment - associated toxicities , especially hepatic decompensation .
Discontinuation of stavudine should be considered as medically appropriate .
Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon , ribavirin , or both should also be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed , including hepatic decompensation ( eg , Child - Pugh > 6 ) ( see the complete prescribing information for interferon and ribavirin ) .
3 .
Neurologic Symptoms : Motor weakness has been reported rarely in patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy including stavudine .
Most of these cases occurred in the setting of lactic acidosis .
The evolution of motor weakness may mimic the clinical presentation of Guillain - Barré syndrome ( including respiratory failure ) .
Symptoms may continue or worsen following discontinuation of therapy .
Peripheral neuropathy , manifested by numbness , tingling , or pain in the hands or feet , has been reported in patients receiving stavudine therapy .
Peripheral neuropathy has occurred more frequently in patients with advanced HIV disease , with a history of neuropathy , or in patients receiving other drugs that have been associated with neuropathy , including didanosine ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
4 .
Pancreatitis Fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred during therapy when stavudine was part of a combination regimen that included didanosine , in both treatment - naive and treatment - experienced patients , regardless of degree of immunosuppression .
The combination of stavudine and didanosine and any other agents that are toxic to the pancreas should be suspended in patients with suspected pancreatitis .
Reinstitution of stavudine after a confirmed diagnosis of pancreatitis should be undertaken with particular caution and close patient monitoring .
The new regimen should not contain didanosine .
PRECAUTIONS Fat Redistribution Redistribution / accumulation of body fat including central obesity , dorsocervical fat enlargement ( buffalo hump ) , peripheral wasting , facial wasting , breast enlargement , and " cushingoid appearance " have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy .
The mechanism and long - term consequences of these events are currently unknown .
A causal relationship has not been established .
Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy , including stavudine .
During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment , patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections ( such as Mycobacterium avium infection , cytomegalovirus , Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia ( PCP ) , or tuberculosis ) , which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment .
Information for Patients ( See Patient Information Leaflet . )
Patients should be informed of the importance of early recognition of symptoms of symptomatic hyperlactatemia or lactic acidosis syndrome , which include unexplained weight loss , abdominal discomfort , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , dyspnea , and motor weakness .
Patients in whom these symptoms develop should seek medical attention immediately .
Discontinuation of stavudine therapy may be required .
Patients should be informed that an important toxicity of stavudine is peripheral neuropathy .
Patients should be aware that peripheral neuropathy is manifested by numbness , tingling , or pain in hands or feet , and that these symptoms should be reported to their physicians .
Patients should be counseled that peripheral neuropathy occurs with greatest frequency in patients who have advanced HIV disease or a history of peripheral neuropathy , and that dose modification and / or discontinuation of stavudine may be required if toxicity develops .
Caregivers of young children receiving stavudine therapy should be instructed regarding detection and reporting of peripheral neuropathy .
Patients should be informed that when stavudine is used in combination with other agents with similar toxicities , the incidence of adverse events may be higher than when stavudine is used alone .
An increased risk of pancreatitis , which may be fatal , may occur in patients treated with the combination of stavudine and didanosine .
Patients treated with this combination should be closely monitored for symptoms of pancreatitis .
An increased risk of hepatotoxicity , which may be fatal , may occur in patients treated with stavudine in combination with didanosine and hydroxyurea .
This combination should be avoided .
Patients should be informed that stavudine is not a cure for HIV infection , and that they may continue to acquire illnesses associated with HIV infection , including opportunistic infections .
Patients should be advised to remain under the care of a physician when using stavudine .
They should be advised that stavudine therapy has not been shown to reduce the risk of transmission of HIV to others through sexual contact or blood contamination .
Patients should be informed that the long - term effects of stavudine are unknown at this time .
Patients should be informed that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) recommend that HIV - infected mothers not nurse newborn infants to reduce the risk of postnatal transmission of HIV infection .
Patients should be informed that redistribution or accumulation of body fat may occur in individuals receiving antiretroviral therapy and that the cause and long - term health effects of these conditions are not known at this time .
Patients should be advised of the importance of adherence to any antiretroviral regimen , including those that contain stavudine .
Drug Interactions ( see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) Zidovudine competitively inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of stavudine .
Therefore , use of zidovudine in combination with stavudine should be avoided .
In vitro data indicate that the phosphorylation of stavudine is also inhibited at relevant concentrations by doxorubicin and ribavirin .
The clinical significance of these in vitro interactions is unknown ; therefore , concomitant use of stavudine with either of these drugs should be undertaken with caution .
( See WARNINGS . )
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats , stavudine was noncarcinogenic at doses which produced exposures ( AUC ) 39 and 168 times , respectively , human exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
Benign and malignant liver tumors in mice and rats and malignant urinary bladder tumors in male rats occurred at levels of exposure 250 ( mice ) and 732 ( rats ) times human exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
Stavudine was not mutagenic in the Ames , E . coli reverse mutation , or the CHO / HGPRT mammalian cell forward gene mutation assays , with and without metabolic activation .
Stavudine produced positive results in the in vitro human lymphocyte clastogenesis and mouse fibroblast assays , and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
In the in vitro assays , stavudine elevated the frequency of chromosome aberrations in human lymphocytes ( concentrations of 25 to 250 μg / mL , without metabolic activation ) and increased the frequency of transformed foci in mouse fibroblast cells ( concentrations of 25 to 2500 μg / mL , with and without metabolic activation ) .
In the in vivo micro - nucleus assay , stavudine was clastogenic in bone marrow cells following oral stavudine administration to mice at dosages of 600 to 2000 mg / kg / day for 3 days .
No evidence of impaired fertility was seen in rats with exposures ( based on Cmax ) up to 216 times that observed following a clinical dosage of 1 mg / kg / day PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits with exposures ( based on Cmax ) up to 399 and 183 times , respectively , of that seen at a clinical dosage of 1 mg / kg / day and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
The incidence in fetuses of a common skeletal variation , unossified or incomplete ossification of sternebra , was increased in rats at 399 times human exposure , while no effect was observed at 216 times human exposure .
A slight post - implantation loss was noted at 216 times the human exposure with no effect noted at approximately 135 times the human exposure .
An increase in early rat neonatal mortality ( birth to 4 days of age ) occurred at 399 times the human exposure , while survival of neonates was unaffected at approximately 135 times the human exposure .
A study in rats showed that stavudine is transferred to the fetus through the placenta .
The concentration in fetal tissue was approximately one - half the concentration in maternal plasma .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of stavudine in pregnant women .
Stavudine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
Fatal lactic acidosis has been reported in pregnant women who received the combination of stavudine and didanosine with other antiretroviral agents .
It is unclear if pregnancy augments the risk of lactic acidosis / hepatic steatosis syndrome reported in nonpregnant individuals receiving nucleoside analogues ( see WARNINGS : Lactic Acidosis / Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis ) .
The combination of stavudine and didanosine should be used with caution during pregnancy and is recommended only if the potential benefit clearly outweighs the potential risk .
Healthcare providers caring for HIV - infected pregnant women receiving stavudine should be alert for early diagnosis of lactic acidosis / hepatic steatosis syndrome .
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry : To monitor maternal - fetal outcomes of pregnant women exposed to stavudine , an Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry has been established .
Physicians are encouraged to register patients by calling 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Nursing Mothers The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that HIV - infected mothers not breast - feed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV .
Studies in lactating rats demonstrated that stavudine is excreted in milk .
Although it is not known whether stavudine is excreted in human milk , there exists the potential for adverse effects from stavudine in nursing infants .
Because of both the potential for HIV transmission and the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , mothers should be instructed not to breast - feed if they are receiving stavudine .
Pediatric Use Use of stavudine in pediatric patients from birth through adolescence is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of stavudine in adults with additional pharmacokinetic and safety data in pediatric patients .
Adverse events and laboratory abnormalities reported to occur in pediatric patients in clinical studies were generally consistent with the safety profile of stavudine in adults .
These studies include ACTG 240 , where 105 pediatric patients ages 3 months to 6 years received stavudine 2 mg / kg / day for a median of 6 . 4 months ; a controlled clinical trial where 185 newborns received stavudine 2 mg / kg / day either alone or in combination with didanosine from birth through 6 weeks of age ; and a clinical trial where 8 newborns received stavudine 2 mg / kg / day in combination with didanosine and nelfinavir from birth through 4 weeks of age .
Stavudine pharmacokinetics have been evaluated in 25 HIV - infected pediatric patients ranging in age from 5 weeks to 15 years and in weight from 2 to 43 kg after IV or oral administration of single doses and twice - daily regimens and in 30 HIV - exposed or - infected newborns ranging in age from birth to 4 weeks after oral administration of twice - daily regimens ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Table 3 ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of stavudine did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals to the effects of stavudine cannot be ruled out .
In a monotherapy Expanded Access Program for patients with advanced HIV infection , peripheral neuropathy or peripheral neuropathic symptoms were observed in 15 of 40 ( 38 % ) elderly patients receiving 40 mg twice daily and 8 of 51 ( 16 % ) elderly patients receiving 20 mg twice daily .
Of the approximately 12 , 000 patients enrolled in the Expanded Access Program , peripheral neuropathy or peripheral neuropathic symptoms developed in 30 % of patients receiving 40 mg twice daily and 25 % of patients receiving 20 mg twice daily .
Elderly patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of peripheral neuropathy .
Stavudine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Dosage Adjustment ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adults Fatal lactic acidosis has occurred in patients treated with stavudine in combination with other antiretroviral agents .
Patients with suspected lactic acidosis should immediately suspend therapy with stavudine .
Permanent discontinuation of stavudine should be considered for patients with confirmed lactic acidosis .
Stavudine therapy has rarely been associated with motor weakness , occurring predominantly in the setting of lactic acidosis .
If motor weakness develops , stavudine should be discontinued .
Stavudine therapy has also been associated with peripheral sensory neuropathy , which can be severe , is dose related , and occurs more frequently in patients being treated with other drugs that have been associated with neuropathy ( including didanosine ) , in patients with advanced HIV infection , or in patients who have previously experienced peripheral neuropathy .
Patients should be monitored for the development of neuropathy , which is usually manifested by numbness , tingling , or pain in the feet or hands .
Stavudine - related peripheral neuropathy may resolve if therapy is withdrawn promptly .
In some cases , symptoms may worsen temporarily following discontinuation of therapy .
If symptoms resolve completely , patients may tolerate resumption of treatment at one - half the dose ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If neuropathy recurs after resumption , permanent discontinuation of stavudine should be considered .
Selected clinical adverse events that occurred in adult patients receiving stavudine in a controlled monotherapy study ( Study AI455 - 019 ) are provided in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Selected Clinical Adverse Events in study AI455 - 019 a ( Monotherapy ) Percent ( % ) Adverse Events Stavudineb ( 40 mg twice daily ) ( n = 412 ) Zidovudine ( 200 mg 3 times daily ) ( n = 402 ) Headache 54 49 Diarrhea 50 44 Peripheral Neurologic Symptoms / Neuropathy 52 39 Rash 40 35 Nausea and Vomiting 39 44 a Any severity , regardless of relationship to study drug .
b Median duration of stavudine therapy = 79 weeks ; median duration of zidovudine therapy = 53 weeks .
Pancreatitis was observed in 3 of the 412 adult patients who received stavudine in a controlled monotherapy study .
Selected clinical adverse events that occurred in antiretroviral - naive adult patients receiving stavudine from two controlled combination studies are provided in Table 8 .
Table 8 : Selected Clinical Adverse Eventsa in START 1 and START 2 b studies ( Combination Therapy ) Percent ( % ) START 1 START 2 b Adverse Events Stavudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 100 c ) zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 102 ) Stavudine + didanosine + indinavir ( n = 102 c ) zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 103 ) Nausea 43 63 53 67 Diarrhea 34 16 45 39 Headache 25 26 46 37 Rash 18 13 30 18 Vomiting 18 33 30 35 Peripheral Neurologic Symptoms / Neuropathy 8 7 21 10 a Any severity , regardless of relationship to study regimen .
b START 2 compared two triple - combination regimens in 205 treatment - naive patients .
Patients received either stavudine ( 40 mg twice daily ) plus didanosine plus indinavir or zidovudine plus lamivudine plus indinavir .
c Duration of stavudine therapy = 48 weeks .
Pancreatitis resulting in death was observed in patients treated with stavudine plus didanosine , in controlled clinical studies and in postmarketing reports .
Selected laboratory abnormalities reported in a controlled monotherapy study ( Study AI455 - 019 ) are provided in Table 9 .
Table 9 : Selected Adult Laboratory Abnormalities in Study AI455 - 019 a , b Percent ( % ) Parameter Stavudine ( 40 mg twice daily ) ( n = 412 ) Zidovudine ( 200 mg 3 times daily ) ( n = 402 ) AST ( SGOT ) ( > 5 . 0 x ULN ) 11 10 ALT ( SGPT ) ( > 5 . 0 x ULN ) 13 11 Amylase ( > 1 . 4 x ULN ) 14 13 a Data presented for patients for whom laboratory evaluations were performed .
b Median duration of stavudine therapy = 79 weeks ; median duration of zidovudine therapy = 53 weeks .
ULN = upper limit of normal .
Selected laboratory abnormalities reported in two controlled combination studies are provided in Tables 10 and 11 .
Table 10 : Selected Laboratory Abnormalities in START 1 and START 2 Studies ( Grades 3 - 4 ) Percent ( % ) START 1 START 2 Parameter Stavudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 100 ) Zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 102 ) Stavudine + didanosine + indinavir ( n = 102 ) zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 103 ) Bilirubin ( > 2 . 6 x ULN ) 7 6 16 8 AST ( SGOT ) ( > 5 x ULN ) 5 2 7 7 ALT ( SGPT ) ( > 5 x ULN ) 6 2 8 5 GGT ( > 5 x ULN ) 2 2 5 2 Lipase ( > 2 x ULN ) 6 3 5 5 Amylase ( > 2 x ULN ) 4 < 1 8 2 ULN = upper limit of normal .
Table 11 : Selected Laboratory Abnormalities in START 1 and START 2 Studies ( All Grades ) Percent ( % ) START 1 START 2 Parameter Stavudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 100 ) Zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 102 ) Stavudine + didanosine + indinavir ( n = 102 ) zidovudine + lamivudine + indinavir ( n = 103 ) Total Bilirubin 65 60 68 55 AST ( SGOT ) 42 20 53 20 ALT ( SGPT ) 40 20 50 18 GGT 15 8 28 12 Lipase 27 12 26 19 Amylase 21 19 31 17 Observed During Clinical Practice The following events have been identified during post - approval use of stavudine .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness , frequency of reporting , causal connection to stavudine , or a combination of these factors .
Body as a Whole - abdominal pain , allergic reaction , chills / fever , and redistribution / accumulation of body fat ( see PRECAUTIONS : Fat Redistribution ) .
Digestive Disorders - anorexia .
Exocrine Gland Disorders - pancreatitis [ including fatal cases ( see WARNINGS ) ] .
Hematologic Disorders - anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and macrocytosis .
Liver - symptomatic hyperlactatemia / lactic acidosis and hepatic steatosis ( see WARNINGS ) , hepatitis and liver failure .
Metabolic Disorders — diabetes mellitus and hyperglycemia .
Musculoskeletal - myalgia .
Nervous System - insomnia , severe motor weakness ( most often reported in the setting of lactic acidosis , see WARNINGS ) .
Use with Didanosine - and Hydroxyurea - Based Regimens When stavudine is used in combination with other agents with similar toxicities , the incidence of these toxicities may be higher than when stavudine used alone .
Thus , patients treated with stavudine in combination with didanosine , with or without hydroxyurea , may be at increased risk for pancreatitis and hepatotoxicity , which may be fatal , and severe peripheral neuropathy .
The combination of stavudine and hydroxyurea , with or without didanosine , should be avoided ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric Patients Adverse reactions and serious laboratory abnormalities in pediatric patients from birth through adolescence were similar in type and frequency to those seen in adult patients ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
OVERDOSAGE Experience with adults treated with 12 to 24 times the recommended daily dosage revealed no acute toxicity .
Complications of chronic overdosage include peripheral neuropathy and hepatic toxicity .
Stavudine can be removed by hemodialysis ; the mean ± SD hemodialysis clearance of stavudine is 120 ± 18 mL / min .
Whether stavudine is eliminated by peritoneal dialysis has not been studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The interval between doses of stavudine should be 12 hours .
Stavudine may be taken with or without food .
Adults : The recommended dose based on body weight is as follows : 40 mg twice daily for patients ≥ 60 kg .
30 mg twice daily for patients < 60 kg .
Pediatrics : The recommended dose for newborns from birth to 13 days old is 0 . 5 mg / kg / dose given every 12 hours ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The recommended dose for pediatric patients at least 14 days old and weighing less than 30 kg is 1 mg / kg / dose , given every 12 hours .
Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg or greater should receive the recommended adult dosage .
Dosage Adjustment Patients should be monitored for the development of peripheral neuropathy , which is usually manifested by numbness , tingling , or pain in the feet or hands .
These symptoms may be difficult to detect in young children ( see WARNINGS ) .
If these symptoms develop during treatment , stavudine therapy should be interrupted .
Symptoms may resolve if therapy is withdrawn promptly .
In some cases , symptoms may worsen temporarily following discontinuation of therapy .
If symptoms resolve completely , patients may tolerate resumption of treatment at one - half the recommended dose : 20 mg twice daily for patients ≥ 60 kg .
15 mg twice daily for patients < 60 kg .
If peripheral neuropathy recurs after resumption of stavudine , permanent discontinuation should be considered .
Renal Impairment Stavudine may be administered to adult patients with impaired renal function with adjustment in dose as shown in Table 12 .
Table 12 : Recommended Dosage Adjustment for Renal ImpairmentCreatinine Clearance Recommended Stavudine Dose by Patient Weight ( mL / min ) ≥ 60 kg < 60 kg > 50 40 mg every 12 hours 30 mg every 12 hours 26 - 50 20 mg every 12 hours 15 mg every 12 hours 10 - 25 20 mg every 24 hours 15 mg every 24 hours Since urinary excretion is also a major route of elimination of stavudine in pediatric patients , the clearance of stavudine may be altered in children with renal impairment .
Although there are insufficient data to recommend a specific dose adjustment of stavudine in this patient population , a reduction in the dose and / or an increase in the interval between doses should be considered .
Hemodialysis Patients The recommended dose is 20 mg every 24 hours ( > 60 kg ) or 15 mg every 24 hours ( < 60 kg ) , administered after the completion of hemodialysis and at the same time of day on non - dialysis days .
HOW SUPPLIED Stavudine capsules are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0594 - 1 40 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack ORANGE 0378 - 5043 Storage : Stavudine Capsules should be stored in tightly closed containers at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
PATIENT INFORMATION Rx only Stavudine Capsules What is stavudine ?
Stavudine is a prescription medicine used in combination with other drugs to treat adults and children who are infected with HIV ( the human immunodeficiency virus ) , the virus that causes AIDS .
Stavudine belongs to a class of drugs called nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs ) .
By reducing the growth of HIV , stavudine helps your body maintain its supply of CD4 cells , which are important for fighting HIV and other infections .
Stavudine will not cure your HIV infection .
At present there is no cure for HIV infection .
Even while taking stavudine , you may continue to have HIV - related illnesses , including infections caused by other disease - producing organisms .
Continue to see your doctor regularly and report any medical problems that occur .
Stavudine does not prevent a person infected with HIV from passing the virus to other people .
To protect others , you must continue to practice safe sex and take precautions to prevent others from coming in contact with your blood and other body fluids .
There is limited information on the long - term use of stavudine .
Who should not take stavudine ?
Do not take stavudine if you are allergic to any of its ingredients , including its active ingredient , stavudine , and the inactive ingredients .
( See Inactive Ingredients at the end of this leaflet . )
Tell your doctor if you think you have had an allergic reaction to any of these ingredients .
How should I take stavudine ?
How should I store it ?
Your doctor will determine your dose ( the amount in each capsule ) based on your body weight , kidney and liver function , and any side effects that you may have had with other medicines .
Take stavudine exactly as instructed .
Try not to miss a dose , but if you do , take it as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule .
Stavudine may be taken with food or on an empty stomach .
Stavudine capsules are usually taken twice a day ( every 12 hours ) .
Store stavudine capsules in a tightly closed container at room temperature away from heat and out of the reach of children and pets .
Do NOT store this medicine in a damp place such as a bathroom medicine cabinet or near the kitchen sink .
If you have a kidney problem : If your kidneys are not working properly , your doctor may monitor your kidney function while you take stavudine .
Also , your dosage of stavudine may be adjusted .
What should I do if someone takes an overdosage of stavudine ?
If you suspect that you or someone else has taken an overdose of stavudine , get medical help right away .
Contact a doctor or a poison control center .
What important information should I know about taking stavudine with other medicines ?
• Do not take zidovudine ( AZT ) while taking stavudine , because AZT may interfere with the actions of stavudine .
Products containing AZT include Combivir ® , Retrovir ® , and Trizivir ® .
• If you are taking ribavirin or interferon , your doctor may need to monitor your therapy more closely or may consider a change in your therapy .
Tell your doctor or pharmacist about any other medicine , vitamin , supplement , or herbal preparation you are taking .
What about pregnancy and nursing ( breast - feeding ) ?
• It is not known if stavudine can harm a human fetus .
Pregnant women have experienced serious side effects when taking stavudine ( the active ingredient in stavudine ) in combination with didanosine and other HIV medicines .
Stavudine should be used during pregnancy only after discussion with your doctor .
Tell your doctor if you become pregnant or plan to become pregnant while taking stavudine .
• Because studies have shown stavudine is in the breast milk of animals receiving the drug , it may be present in human breast milk .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) recommends that HIV - infected mothers not breast - feed to reduce the risk of passing HIV infection to their babies and the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants .
Therefore , do not nurse a baby while taking stavudine .
What are the possible side effects of stavudine ?
• Lactic acidosis , severe increase of lactic acid in the blood , severe liver enlargement , including inflammation ( pain and swelling ) of the liver , and liver failure , which can cause death , have been reported among patients taking stavudine .
Symptoms of lactic acidosis may include : · nausea , vomiting , or unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort ; · feeling very weak and tired ; · shortness of breath ; · weakness in arms and legs .
If you notice these symptoms or if your medical condition has suddenly changed , stop taking stavudine and call your doctor right away .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital .
Women ( including pregnant women ) , overweight patients , and those who have had lengthy treatment with nucleoside medicines are more likely to develop lactic acidosis .
Your doctor should closely monitor your liver function if you are taking stavudine and have a history of heavy alcohol use or a liver condition .
• Peripheral neuropathy is a nerve disorder of the hands and feet .
If not recognized promptly , this disorder may worsen .
Tell your doctor right away if you or a child taking stavudine has continuing numbness , tingling , burning , or pain in the feet and / or hands . A child may not recognize these symptoms or know to tell you that his or her feet or hands are numb , burning , tingling , or painful .
Ask your child ' s doctor for instructions on how to find out if your child develops peripheral neuropathy Let your doctor know if you or a child taking stavudine has ever had peripheral neuropathy , because this condition occurs more often in patients who have had it previously .
Peripheral neuropathy is also more likely to occur in patients taking drugs that affect the nerves and in patients with advanced HIV disease , but it can occur at any disease stage .
If you develop peripheral neuropathy , your doctor may tell you to stop taking stavudine .
In some cases the symptoms worsen for a short time before getting better .
Once symptoms of peripheral neuropathy go away completely , stavudine may be started again at a lower dose .
• Pancreatitis is a dangerous inflammation of the pancreas .
It may cause death .
Tell your doctor right away if you develop stomach pain , nausea , or vomiting .
These can be signs of pancreatitis .
Let your doctor know if you have ever had pancreatitis , regularly drink alcoholic beverages , or have gallstones .
Pancreatitis occurs more often in patients with these conditions .
It is also more likely in people with advanced HIV disease , but can occur at any disease stage .
The combination of stavudine and didanosine , may increase your risk for pancreatitis .
People who take stavudine along with other medicines that may cause similar side effects may have a higher chance of developing these side effects than if they took stavudine alone .
Other side effects .
In addition to peripheral neuropathy , the most frequent side effects observed in studies of adults taking the recommended dose of stavudine were headache , diarrhea , rash , nausea , and vomiting .
Other side effects may include abdominal pain , muscle pain , insomnia , loss of appetite , chills or fever , allergic reactions , blood disorders , and high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia or diabetes ) .
Changes in body fat have been seen in some patients taking antiretroviral therapy .
These changes may include increased amount of fat in the upper back and neck ( “ buffalo hump ” ) , breast , and around the trunk .
Loss of fat from the legs , arms , and face may also happen .
The cause and long - term health effects of these conditions are not known at this time .
What else should I know about stavudine ?
Inactive Ingredients : Stavudine Capsules : microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , lactose anhydrous , and magnesium stearate in a hard gelatin shell .
The hard gelatin shell consists of gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and iron oxides .
The capsules are printed with Black ink containing black iron oxide E172 dye .
This medicine was prescribed for your particular condition .
Do not use stavudine for another condition or give it to others .
Keep stavudine and all other medicines out of the reach of children and pets at all times .
Do not keep medicine that is out of date or that you no longer need .
Dispose of unused stavudine through community take - back disposal programs when available or by placing it in an unrecognizable closed container in the household trash .
This summary does not include everything there is to know about stavudine .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
If you have questions or concerns , or want more information about stavudine , your physician and pharmacist have the complete prescribing information upon which this leaflet was based .
You may want to read it and discuss it with your doctor or other healthcare professional .
Remember , no written summary can replace careful discussion with your doctor .
Combivir ® , Retrovir ® , and Trizivir ® are registered trademarks of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies and not the trademarks of Hetero Drugs Limited .
Manufactured By : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc Morgantown , WV USA This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States Label Image 40 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
