Active ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % ................................................. Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • jewelry • insect bites • soaps • cosmetics • detergents • seborrheic dematitis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advise and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• more than directed unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with a toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera leaf , aluminum sulfate octadecahydrate , calcium acetate , monohydrate , cetostearyl alcohol , dextrin , light mineral oil , maltodextrin , methylparaben , petrolatum , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cetearyl sulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , white wax Distributed by : C . D . M . A . , Inc .
43157 W 9 Mile Rd Novi , MI 48375 www . qualitychoice . com Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
