ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( IN EACH TABLET ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride , USP 168 mg ) PURPOSE Acid reducer USES • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages WARNINGS Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , Ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
DIRECTIONS • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • children under 12 years : ask a doctor OTHER INFORMATION • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE CARTON OR PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP IS OPEN OR TORN .
• store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sodium and sugar free INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , iron oxide red , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , titanium dioxide QUESTIONS ?
Call 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CVS pharmacy ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Zantac 150 ® * Maximum Strength 150 mg ACID REDUCER RANITIDINE TABLETS , USP 150 mg Prevents & relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion & sour stomach 200 TABLETS Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
5108604 / 0214 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
