Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
• for children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • cough comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in a 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device • keep dosing cup with device • mL = milliliter • shake well before using • adults and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • each 20 mL contains : sodium 17 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , sodium citrate , xanthan gum Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Compare to the active ingredients in Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Severe Congestion & Cough †† Severe Congestion & Cough DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBr / COUGH SUPPRESSANT GUAIFENESIN / EXPECTORANT PHENYLEPHRINE HCI / NASAL DECONGESTANT MAXIMUM STRENGTH • Controls cough • Clears nasal & chest congestion • Thins & loosens mucus • For ages 12 & over FL OZ ( mL ) †† This product is not manufactured or distributed by RB Health ( US ) LLC , owner of the registered trademarks Mucinex ® and Fast - Max ® TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 walgreens . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
