Drug facts Active ingredient Carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % Purpose Earwax removal aid Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , looser , and remove excessive earwax Warnings For use in the ear only Ask a doctor before use if you have • Ear drainage or discharge • Ear pain • Irritation , or rash in the ear • Dizziness • An injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum • Recently had ear surgery When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • You need to use for more than 4 days • Excessive earwax remains after use of this product Keep out of reach of children If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age : • Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear • Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal • Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head titled or placing cotton in the ear • Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor • Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe Children under 12 years : consult a doctor Other Information • Avoid exposing bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight • Store bottle in the outer carton • Keep cap on bottle when not in use • Product foams on contact with earwax due to release of oxygen .
There many be an associated cracking sound • Do not use if tamper - evident safety seal is broken or missing Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , glycerin , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 328 - 5890 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands Inc . owner of the registered trademark Debrox .
Satisfaction Guaranteed If Dissatisfied , Return Unused Portion And Package To Store Where Purchased .
If Unable To Return To Store , Send Reason For Dissatisfaction .
Name , Address And Empty Package To : Discount Drug Mart , 211 Commerce Drive , Median Ohio 44256 Distributed By : Drug Mart - Food Fair 211 Commerce Dr . , Median , Ohio 44256 Made in the USA Discount Drug Mart Food Fair Earwax Removal Kit Earwax Removal Aid Carbamide Peroxide 6 . 5 % Safe , Gentle , Non - Irritating Washer Bulb Included 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) Product Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
