Active Ingredient Menthol ( 0 . 05 % ) Purpose Topical Analgesic Use For temporary relief of muscle and joint pain associated with backaches , strains , sports injuries , muscle stiffness .
Warnings • For external use only • Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Do not use on irritated skin • Do not wrap , bandage , or use a heating pad on the treated area • Do not use on open wounds or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • skin irritation occurs • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Directions Shake well .
Spray onto muscles before and after workout .
Wait until crackling effect fades .
Massage in gently .
Wash your hands well .
May be used 4 to 6 times a day .
Do not use in children under 12 years of age .
Other information Contents under pressure .
Do not expose to sunlight or keep where temperatures exceed 120 ° F . Do not spray into flames or hot surfaces .
Keep away from sources of ignition .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
When using this product , keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing in .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Benzyl Benzoate , Butane , Citral , Citronellol , Colloidal Gold , Geraniol , Glycerin , Hydroxycitronellal , Limonene , Linalool , Menthyl Lactate , Parfum , PPG - 6 - Decyltetradeceth - 30 , Propane , Sodium Polyacrylate , Water , Xanthan Gum No Pain More Gain Sport Strength Pre & Post Workout 100 % Vegan No Animal Testing NPMG is • 100 % vegan • Gluten - free • GMO - free • Free of paraben , paraffin and silicone oil • Made from spring water • Cruelty - free Build muscle and get strong faster .
NPMG Sport Strength is a superior pre - and post - workout spray optimized for bodybuilding and all strength related sports , endorsed by physiotherapists .
The innovative crackling spray contains tiny bubbles .
They burst on contact with the skin and release their unique properties .
NPMG Sport Strength is cold at first , then warm .
It can be used selectively , but also on large areas .
It is made from the finest spring water .
Its proprietary blend is loaded with minerals and electrolytes , powered by menthol , enhanced by colloidal gold and optimized with lemon and almond oil .
NPMG Sport Strength penetrates deeply , absorbs quickly , moisturizes the skin and has a fresh and pleasant scent . The natural alternative with the advanced German formula starts to work on contact , penetrates deeply , absorbs quickly and has a fresh and pleasant scent .
NPMG Sport Strength is a product of Lugus Group LLC , Buffalo , WY 82834 , USA NET WT 5 . 07 fl oz ( 150 ml ) Keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
