Active Ingredient Menthol ( 0 . 1 % ) Purpose Topical Analgesic Use For temporary relief of muscle and joint pain associated with arthritis , backaches , bruises , strains , sports injuries and muscle stiffness Keep out of reach of children .
Directions Shake Well .
Adults and children of 2 years and older apply to the affected areas up to 6 times a day .
Massage in gently .
Warnings • For external use only • Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Do not use with a heating pad • Do not use on open wounds or broken skin 100 % Vegan No Pain More Gain Cream Moisturizing Pain Relief NPMG is • 100 % vegan • Gluten - free • Free of paraben , paraffin and silicone oil • Made from spring water • Not tested on animals For pain treatment and as preventive measure .
Best for use on large areas .
No Pain More Gain ( NPMG ) provides temporary but long lasting pain relief and moisturizes the skin .
The natural alternative with the advanced German formula starts to work on contact .
NPMG penetrates deeply , absorbs quickly and has a fresh and pleasant scent .
NPMG Cream is a product Lugus Group LLC , Buffalo , WY 82834 NET WT 5 . 07 fl oz ( 150 ml ) Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Ascorbic Acid , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Benzoic Acid , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Cetearyl Alcohol , Citral , Citric Acid , Citrus Medica Limonum ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Dehydroacetic Acid , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Ethylhexyl Stearate , Galactoarabinan , Glycerin , Gold , Limonene , Panthenol , Pentaerythrityl Tetra - Di - T - Butyl Hydroxyhydrocinnamate , Phenoxyethanol , Platinum Powder , PPG - 3 Benzyl Ether Myristate , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil , Silica , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Squalene , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Tocopherol , Water , Xanthan gum .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Skin irritation occurs • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
