DESCRIPTION Chemically , meclizine hydrochloride is 1 - ( p - chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C25H27CIN2 · 2 HCl · H20 M . W . 481 . 89 Meclizine hydrochloride tablets , USP are available in two different strengths , 12 . 5 mg and 25 mg .
Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate .
The 12 . 5 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meclizine hydrochloride is an antihistamine that shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median Tmax value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans are unknown .
Metabolism The metabolic fate of meclizine in humans is unknown .
In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP 2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine .
The genetic polymorphism of CYP2D6 that results in extensive - , poor - , intermediate - and ultrarapid metabolizer phenotypes could contribute to large inter - individual variability in meclizine exposure .
Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 - 6 hours in humans .
INDICATIONS Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the indications as follows : Effective : Management of nausea and vomiting , and dizziness associated with motion sickness .
Final classification of the less than effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Since drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
Usage in Children Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 - 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that meclizine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , meclizine , or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary .
PRECAUTIONS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when meclizine is administered to a nursing woman .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
As meclizine undergoes metabolism , hepatic impairment may result in increased systemic exposure of the drug .
Treatment with meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
Due to a potential drug / metabolite accumulation , meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with renal impairment and in the elderly as renal function generally declines with age .
Drug Interactons There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , tranquilizers , and sedatives .
( see WARNINGS ) Based on in - vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Motion Sickness The initial dose of 25 to 50 mg of meclizine hydrochloride should be taken one hour prior to embarkation for protection against motion sickness .
Thereafter , the dose may be repeated every 24 hours for the duration of the journey .
HOW SUPPLIED Meclizine Hydrochloride Tablets USP are available as : 25 mg , white , modified oval - shaped tablets , de - bossed “ Є14 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63187 - 258 - 10 in bottles of 10 NDC 63187 - 258 - 20 in bottles of 20 NDC 63187 - 258 - 30 in bottles of 30 NDC 63187 - 258 - 60 in bottles of 60 NDC 63187 - 258 - 90 in bottles of 90 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68 to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense contents in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure , as required .
Manufactured by : Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Made in USA Revised April 2014 MF012REV04 / 14 OE1035 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
