Rx only COMPOSITION Each caplet contains : Vitamin A 1 , 700 IU Vitamin C 60 mg Vitamin D 400 IU Vitamin E 30 IU Thiamine Mononitrate ( Vitamin B1 ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin B12 ( as Cyanocobalamin ) 5 mcg Elemental Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 29 mg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 25 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 15 mg Other Ingredients : Fructose , Stearic Acid , Mono and Diglycerides , Croscarmellose Sodium , Mixed Berry Flavor WONF , Gelatin ( Porcine ) , Silicon Dioxide , Citric Acid , Magnesium Stearate , Modified Food Starch , Hydroxypropylmethyl Cellulose , Malic Acid , Sucrose , Corn Starch , Dicalcium Phosphate , Sodium Ascorbate , Medium Chain Triglycerides , Sorbic Acid , Tocopherol Concentrate , Sodium Benzoate , dl - Alpha - Tocopherol , Butylated Hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) , Tricalcium Phosphate .
Coating : Hydroxypropylmethyl Cellulose , Titanium Dioxide , Polydextrose , Hydroxypropyl Cellulose , Triacetin , Polyethylene Glycol , FD & C Blue # 1 / Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 2 / Aluminum Lake .
Contains Soy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE SELECT - OB ® is indicated to provide vitamin , mineral supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SELECT - OB ® is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS SELECT - OB ® should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT - OB ® .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , one caplet daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED SELECT - OB ® is available as a light blue caplet debossed EV0077 .
Available in bottle of 90 , ( NDC 0642 - 0077 - 90 ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat and moisture .
Rx only Manufactured for : EVERETT LABORATORIES , INC .
Chatham , NJ 07928 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 U . S . Patent No . 7 , 560 , 123 / 8 , 101 , 587 / 8 , 197 , 855 Select - OB ® is a trademark of Everett Laboratories , Inc .
Rev . 03 / 13 6876 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 Caplet Bottle Label NDC 0642 - 0077 - 90 Select - OB ® Prenatal Supplement 90 Caplets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
