Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberaly 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , polyester - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , arachidyl alcohol , beeswax , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , behenyl alcohol , tocopherol , arachidyl glucoside , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , potassium hydroxide , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Manufactured by Vi - Jon , LLC One Swan Drive Smyrna , TN 37167 Pat .
Pend .
principal display panel Wild Tropics Sunscreen Lotion Broad spectrum SPF 50 Octinoxate & Oxybenzone Free Hypoallergenic Dermatologist tested Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) Fresh Banaba Scent SPF 50 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
