DESCRIPTION ZOMIG ® ( zolmitriptan ) Tablets and ZOMIG - ZMT ® ( zolmitriptan ) Orally Disintegrating Tablets contain zolmitriptan , which is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine 1 B / 1 D ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist .
Zolmitriptan is chemically designated as ( S ) - 4 - [ [ 3 - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - 1 H - indol - 5 - yl ] methyl ] - 2 - oxazolidinone and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C 16 H 21 N 3 O 2 , representing a molecular weight of 287 . 36 .
Zolmitriptan is a white to almost white powder that is readily soluble in water .
ZOMIG Tablets are available as 2 . 5 mg ( yellow ) and 5 mg ( pink ) film coated tablets for oral administration .
The film coated tablets contain anhydrous lactose NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , sodium starch glycolate NF , magnesium stearate NF , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose USP , titanium dioxide USP , polyethylene glycol 400 NF , yellow iron oxide NF ( 2 . 5 mg tablet ) , red iron oxide NF ( 5 mg tablet ) , and polyethylene glycol 8000 NF .
ZOMIG - ZMT ® Orally Disintegrating Tablets are available as 2 . 5 mg and 5 . 0 mg white uncoated tablets for oral administration .
The orally disintegrating tablets contain mannitol USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , crospovidone NF , aspartame NF , sodium bicarbonate USP , citric acid anhydrous USP , colloidal silicon dioxide NF , magnesium stearate NF and orange flavor SN 027512 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Zolmitriptan binds with high affinity to human recombinant 5 - HT1D and 5 - HT1B receptors .
Zolmitriptan exhibits modest affinity for 5 - HT1A receptors , but has no significant affinity ( as measured by radioligand binding assays ) or pharmacological activity at 5 - HT2 , 5 - HT3 , 5 - HT4 , alpha1 - , alpha2 - , or beta1 - adrenergic ; H1 , H2 , histaminic ; muscarinic ; dopamine1 , or dopamine2 receptors .
The N - desmethyl metabolite also has high affinity for 5 - HT1B / 1 D and modest affinity for 5 - HT1A receptors .
Current theories proposed to explain the etiology of migraine headache suggest that symptoms are due to local cranial vasodilatation and / or to the release of sensory neuropeptides ( vasoactive intestinal peptide , substance P and calcitonin gene - related peptide ) through nerve endings in the trigeminal system .
The therapeutic activity of zolmitriptan for the treatment of migraine headache can most likely be attributed to the agonist effects at the 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptors on intracranial blood vessels ( including the arterio - venous anastomoses ) and sensory nerves of the trigeminal system which result in cranial vessel constriction and inhibition of pro - inflammatory neuropeptide release .
Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Bioavailability Absorption : Zolmitriptan is well absorbed after oral administration for both the conventional tablets and the orally disintegrating tablets .
Zolmitriptan displays linear kinetics over the dose range of 2 . 5 to 50 mg .
The AUC and Cmax of zolmitriptan are similar following administration of ZOMIG Tablets and ZOMIG - ZMT Orally Disintegrating Tablets , but the Tmax is somewhat later with ZOMIG - ZMT , with a median Tmax of 3 hours for the orally disintegrating tablet compared with 1 . 5 hours for the conventional tablet .
The AUC , Cmax , and Tmax for the active N - desmethyl metabolite are similar for the two formulations .
During a moderate to severe migraine attack , mean AUC0 - 4 and Cmax for zolmitriptan , dosed as a conventional tablet , were decreased by 40 % and 25 % , respectively , and mean Tmax was delayed by one - half hour compared to the same patients during a migraine free period .
Food has no significant effect on the bioavailability of zolmitriptan .
No accumulation occurred on multiple dosing .
Distribution : Mean absolute bioavailability is approximately 40 % .
The mean apparent volume of distribution is 7 . 0 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of zolmitriptan is 25 % over the concentration range of 10 - 1000 ng / mL .
Metabolism : Zolmitriptan is converted to an active N - desmethyl metabolite such that the metabolite concentrations are about two - thirds that of zolmitriptan .
Because the 5HT1B / 1 D potency of the metabolite is 2 to 6 times that of the parent , the metabolite may contribute a substantial portion of the overall effect after zolmitriptan administration .
Elimination : Total radioactivity recovered in urine and feces was 65 % and 30 % of the administered dose , respectively .
About 8 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as unchanged zolmitriptan .
Indole acetic acid metabolite accounted for 31 % of the dose , followed by N - oxide ( 7 % ) and N - desmethyl ( 4 % ) metabolites .
The indole acetic acid and N - oxide metabolites are inactive .
Mean total plasma clearance is 31 . 5 mL / min / kg , of which one - sixth is renal clearance .
The renal clearance is greater than the glomerular filtration rate suggesting renal tubular secretion .
Special Populations : Age : Zolmitriptan pharmacokinetics in healthy elderly non - migraineur volunteers ( age 65 − 76 yrs ) were similar to those in younger non - migraineur volunteers ( age 18 - 39 yrs ) .
Gender : Mean plasma concentrations of zolmitriptan were up to 1 . 5 - fold higher in females than males .
Renal Impairment : Clearance of zolmitriptan was reduced by 25 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( Clcr ≥ 5 ≤ 25 mL / min ) compared to the normal group ( Clcr > = 70 mL / min ) ; no significant change in clearance was observed in the moderately renally impaired group ( Clcr ≥ 26 ≤ 50 mL / min ) .
Hepatic Impairment : In severely hepatically impaired patients , the mean Cmax , Tmax , and AUC0 - ∞ of zolmitriptan were increased 1 . 5 , 2 ( 2 vs 4 hr ) , and 3 - fold , respectively , compared to normals .
Seven out of 27 patients experienced 20 to 80 mm Hg elevations in systolic and / or diastolic blood pressure after a 10 mg dose .
Zolmitriptan should be administered with caution in subjects with liver disease , generally using doses less than 2 . 5 mg ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hypertensive Patients : No differences in the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan or its effects on blood pressure were seen in mild to moderate hypertensive volunteers compared to normotensive controls .
Race :: Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data between Japanese and Caucasians revealed no significant differences .
Drug Interactions : All drug interaction studies were performed in healthy volunteers using a single 10 mg dose of zolmitriptan and a single dose of the other drug except where otherwise noted .
Fluoxetine : The pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan , as well as its effect on blood pressure , were unaffected by 4 weeks of pretreatment with oral fluoxetine ( 20 mg / day ) .
MAO Inhibitors : Following one week of administration of 150 mg bid moclobemide , a specific MAO - A inhibitor , there was an increase of about 25 % in both Cmax and AUC for zolmitriptan and a 3 - fold increase in the Cmax and AUC of the active N - desmethyl metabolite of zolmitriptan ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Selegiline , a selective MAO - B inhibitor , at a dose of 10 mg / day for 1 week , had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its metabolite .
Propranolol : Cmax and AUC of zolmitriptan increased 1 . 5 - fold after one week of dosing with propranolol ( 160 mg / day ) .
Cmax and AUC of the N - desmethyl metabolite were reduced by 30 % and 15 % , respectively .
There were no interactive effects on blood pressure or pulse rate following administration of propranolol with zolmitriptan .
Acetaminophen : A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its N - desmethyl metabolite .
However , zolmitriptan delayed the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour .
Metoclopramide : A single 10 mg dose of metoclopramide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan or its metabolites .
Oral Contraceptives : Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data across studies indicated that mean plasma concentrations of zolmitriptan were generally higher in females taking oral contraceptives compared to those not taking oral contraceptives .
Mean Cmax and AUC of zolmitriptan were found to be higher by 30 % and 50 % , respectively , and Tmax was delayed by one - half hour in females taking oral contraceptives .
The effect of zolmitriptan on the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives has not been studied .
Cimetidine : Following the administration of cimetidine , the half - life and AUC of a 5 mg dose of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite were approximately doubled ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Clinical Studies : The efficacy of ZOMIG Tablets in the acute treatment of migraine headaches was demonstrated in five randomized , double - blind , placebo controlled studies , of which 2 utilized the 1 mg dose , 2 utilized the 2 . 5 mg dose and 4 utilized the 5 mg dose ; all studies used the marketed formulation .
In study 1 , patients treated their headaches in a clinic setting .
In the other studies , patients treated their headaches as outpatients .
In study 4 , patients who had previously used sumatriptan were excluded , whereas in the other studies no such exclusion was applied .
Patients enrolled in these 5 studies were predominantly female ( 82 % ) and Caucasian ( 97 % ) with a mean age of 40 years ( range 12 - 65 ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain , was assessed at 1 , 2 , and , in most studies , 4 hours after dosing .
Associated symptoms such as nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia were also assessed .
Maintenance of response was assessed for up to 24 hours postdose .
A second dose of ZOMIG Tablets or other medication was allowed 2 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for persistent and recurrent headache .
The frequency and time to use of these additional treatments were also recorded .
In all studies , the effect of zolmitriptan was compared to placebo in the treatment of a single migraine attack .
In all five studies , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving ZOMIG Tablets at all doses ( except for the 1 mg dose in the smallest study ) compared to those who received placebo .
In the two studies that evaluated the 1 mg dose , there was a statistically significant greater percentage of patients with headache response at 2 hours in the higher dose groups ( 2 . 5 and / or 5 mg ) compared to the 1 mg dose group .
There were no statistically significant differences between the 2 . 5 and 5 mg dose groups ( or of doses up to 20 mg ) for the primary end point of headache response at 2 hours in any study .
The results of these controlled clinical studies are summarized in Table 1 .
Comparisons of drug performance based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
Table 1 : Percentage of Patients with Headache Response ( Mild or no Headache ) 2 Hours Following Treatment ( n = number of patients randomized ) .
Placebo ZOMIG 1 . 0 mg ZOMIG 2 . 5 mg ZOMIG 5 mg Study 1 16 % ( n = 19 ) 27 % ( n = 22 ) NA [ 1 ] 60 % [ 2 ] [ 3 ] ( n = 20 ) Study 2 19 % ( n = 88 ) NA null NA null 66 % null ( n = 179 ) Study 3 34 % ( n = 121 ) 50 % null ( n = 140 ) 65 % null null ( n = 260 ) 67 % null null ( n = 245 ) Study 4 44 % ( n = 55 ) NA null NA null 59 % null ( n = 491 ) Study 5 36 % ( n = 92 ) NA null NA null 62 % null ( n = 178 ) NA null [ 1 ] NA - not applicable [ 2 ] p < 0 . 05 in comparison with placebo .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 05 in comparison with 1 mg .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response by 4 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * Figure 1 shows the Kaplan - Meier plot of the probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with zolmitriptan .
The averages displayed are based on pooled data from 3 placebo controlled , outpatient trials providing evidence of efficacy ( Trials 2 , 3 and 5 ) .
Patients not achieving headache response or taking additional treatment prior to 4 hours were censored at 4 hours .
For patients with migraine associated photophobia , phonophobia , and nausea at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of ZOMIG as compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain relief in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * This Kaplan - Meier plot is based on data obtained in 3 placebo controlled clinical trials ( Study 2 , 3 and 5 ) .
Patients not using additional treatments were censored at 24 hours .
The plot includes both patients who had headache response at 2 hours and those who had no response to the initial dose .
It should be noted that the protocols did not allow remedication within 2 hours postdose .
The efficacy of ZOMIG was unaffected by presence of aura ; duration of headache prior to treatment ; relationship to menses ; gender , age , or weight of the patient ; pretreatment nausea , or concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs .
ZOMIG - ZMT Orally Disintegrating Tablets The efficacy of ZOMIG - ZMT 2 . 5 mg was demonstrated in a randomized , placebo - controlled trial that was similar in design to the trials of ZOMIG Tablets .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Of the 471 patients treated in the study , 87 % were female and 97 % were Caucasian , with a mean age of 41 years ( range 18 - 62 ) .
At 2 hours post - dosing response rates in patients treated with ZOMIG - ZMT 2 . 5 mg were 63 % compared to 22 % in the placebo group .
The difference was statistically significant .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response by 2 hours following treatment with ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets is depicted in Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 shows the Kaplan - Meier plot of the probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets or placebo .
Patients taking additional treatment or not achieving headache response prior to 2 hours were censored at 2 hours .
For patients with migraine - associated photophobia , phonophobia and nausea at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of ZOMIG - ZMT as compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In this Kaplan - Meier plot , patients not using additional treatments were censored at 24 hours .
The plot includes both patients who had headache response at 2 hours and those who had no response to the initial dose .
Remedication was allowed 2 hours post - dose , and unlike the conventional tablet , remedication prior to 4 hours was not discouraged .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZOMIG is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults .
ZOMIG should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
ZOMIG is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of ZOMIG have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ZOMIG should not be given to patients with ischemic heart disease ( angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) or to patients who have symptoms or findings consistent with ischemic heart disease , coronary artery vasospasm , including Prinzmetal ’ s variant angina , or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
ZOMIG should not be given to patients with cerebrovascular syndromes including ( but not limited to ) stroke of any type as well as transient ischemic attacks ( see WARNINGS ) .
ZOMIG should not be given to patients with peripheral vascular disease including ( but not limited to ) ischemic bowel disease ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Because ZOMIG may increase blood pressure , it should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see WARNINGS ) .
ZOMIG should not be used within 24 hours of treatment with another 5 - HT1 agonist , or an ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medication like dihydroergotamine or methysergide .
ZOMIG should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
Concurrent administration of MAO - A inhibitors or use of zolmitriptan within 2 weeks of discontinuation of MAO - A inhibitor therapy is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
ZOMIG is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to zolmitriptan or any of its inactive ingredients .
WARNINGS Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events : ZOMIG should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is strongly recommended that zolmitriptan not be given to patients in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ’ s medical history , electrocardiographic or other investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with , coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , zolmitriptan should not be administered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of zolmitriptan take place in the setting of a physician ’ s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received zolmitriptan .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following ZOMIG , in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of ZOMIG and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use ZOMIG .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to zolmitriptan .
Cardiac Events and Fatalities : Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , have been reported within a few hours following administration of zolmitriptan .
Life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm , and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of other 5 - HT1 agonists .
Considering the extent of use of 5 - HT1 agonists in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
ZOMIG can cause coronary vasospasm ; at least one of these events occurred in a patient with no cardiac disease history and with documented absence of coronary artery disease .
Because of the close proximity of the events to ZOMIG use , a causal relationship cannot be excluded .
In the cases where there has been known underlying coronary artery disease , the relationship is uncertain .
Patients with symptomatic Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders should not receive ZOMIG .
Premarketing experience with zolmitriptan : Among the more than 2 , 500 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled clinical trials of ZOMIG Tablets , no deaths or serious cardiac events were reported .
Postmarketing experience with zolmitriptan : Serious cardiovascular events have been reported in association with the use of ZOMIG Tablets , and in very rare cases , these events have occurred in the absence of known cardiovascular disease .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to determine definitively the proportion of the reported cases that were actually caused by zolmitriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases .
Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities with 5 - HT1 agonists : Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5 - HT1 agonists ; and some have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , stroke , hemorrhage , transient ischemic attack ) .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Serotonin Syndrome : The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including ZOMIG treatment , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
If concomitant treatment with ZOMIG and an SSRI ( e . g . fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , citalopram , escitalopram ) or SNRI ( e . g . , venlafaxine , duloxetine ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Other Vasospasm - Related Events : 5 - HT1 agonists may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm such as peripheral and gastrointestinal vascular ischemia .
As with other serotonin 5HT1 agonists , very rare gastrointestinal ischemic events including ischemic colitis and gastrointestinal infarction or necrosis have been reported with ZOMIG Tablets ; these may present as bloody diarrhea or abdominal pain .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5 - HT1 agonists .
Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack .
Increase in Blood Pressure : As with other 5 - HT1 agonists , significant elevations in systemic blood pressure have been reported on rare occasions with ZOMIG Tablet use , in patients with and without a history of hypertension ; very rarely these increases in blood pressure have been associated with significant clinical events .
Zolmitriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
In volunteers , an increase of 1 and 5 mm Hg in the systolic and diastolic blood pressure , respectively , was seen at 5 mg .
In the headache trials , vital signs were measured only in the small inpatient study and no effect on blood pressure was seen .
In a study of patients with moderate to severe liver disease , 7 of 27 experienced 20 to 80 mm Hg elevations in systolic and / or diastolic blood pressure after a dose of 10 mg of zolmitriptan ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
An 18 % increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure was seen following dosing with another 5 - HT1 agonist in a study evaluating subjects undergoing cardiac catheterization .
PRECAUTIONS General : As with other 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , sensations of tightness , pain , pressure , and heaviness have been reported after treatment with ZOMIG Tablets in the precordium , throat , neck , and jaw .
Because zolmitriptan may cause coronary artery vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following dosing should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal ’ s variant angina before receiving additional doses of medication , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud ’ s syndrome following the use of any 5 - HT1 agonist are candidates for further evaluation .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS . )
Zolmitriptan should also be administered with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption , metabolism , or excretion of drugs , such as impaired hepatic function ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
For a given attack , if a patient does not respond to the first dose of zolmitriptan , the diagnosis of migraine headache should be reconsidered before administration of a second dose .
Binding to Melanin - Containing Tissues : When pigmented rats were given a single oral dose of 10 mg / kg of radiolabeled zolmitriptan , the radioactivity in the eye after 7 days , the latest time point examined , was still 75 % of the value measured after 4 hours .
This suggests that zolmitriptan and / or its metabolites may bind to the melanin of the eye .
Because there could be accumulation in melanin rich tissues over time , this raises the possibility that zolmitriptan could cause toxicity in these tissues after extended use .
However , no effects on the retina related to treatment with zolmitriptan were noted in any of the toxicity studies .
Although no systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function was undertaken in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring are offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long - term ophthalmologic effects .
Phenylketonurics : Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that ZOMIG - ZMT contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 2 . 5 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 2 . 81 mg phenylalanine .
Each 5 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 5 . 62 mg phenylalanine .
Information for Patients See PATIENT INFORMATION at the end of this labeling for the text of the separate leaflet provided for patients .
ZOMIG - ZMT Orally Disintegrating Tablets The orally disintegrating tablet is packaged in a blister .
Patients should be instructed not to remove the tablet from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The blister pack should then be peeled open , and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of ZOMIG or other triptans , especially during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Laboratory Tests : No monitoring of specific laboratory tests is recommended .
Drug Interactions Ergot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because there is a theoretical basis that these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) and zolmitriptan within 24 hours of each other should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
MAO - A inhibitors increase the systemic exposure of zolmitriptan .
Therefore , the use of zolmitriptan in patients receiving MAO - A inhibitors is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYand CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Concomitant use of other 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists within 24 hours of ZOMIG treatment is not recommended .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Following administration of cimetidine , the half - life and AUC of zolmitriptan and its active metabolites were approximately doubled ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome : Cases of life - threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) and triptans ( See WARNINGS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Zolmitriptan is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : Carcinogenicity studies by oral gavage were carried out in mice and rats at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day .
Mice were dosed for 85 weeks ( males ) and 92 weeks ( females ) .
The exposure ( plasma AUC of parent drug ) at the highest dose level was approximately 800 times that seen in humans after a single 10 mg dose ( the maximum recommended total daily dose ) .
There was no effect of zolmitriptan on tumor incidence .
Control , low dose , and middle dose rats were dosed for 104 - 105 weeks ; the high dose group was sacrificed after 101 weeks ( males ) and 86 weeks ( females ) due to excess mortality .
Aside from an increase in the incidence of thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia and thyroid follicular cell adenomas seen in male rats receiving 400 mg / kg / day , an exposure approximately 3000 times that seen in humans after dosing with 10 mg , no tumors were noted .
Mutagenesis : Zolmitriptan was mutagenic in an Ames test , in 2 of 5 strains of S . typhimurium tested , in the presence of , but not in the absence of , metabolic activation .
It was not mutagenic in an in vitro mammalian gene cell mutation ( CHO / HGPRT ) assay .
Zolmitriptan was clastogenic in an in vitro human lymphocyte assay both in the absence of and the presence of metabolic activation ; it was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
It was also not genotoxic in an unscheduled DNA synthesis study .
Impairment of Fertility : Studies of male and female rats administered zolmitriptan prior to and during mating and up to implantation have shown no impairment of fertility at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day .
Exposure at this dose was approximately 3000 times exposure at the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg / day .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women ; therefore , zolmitriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral administration of zolmitriptan to pregnant animals was associated with embryolethality and fetal abnormalities .
When pregnant rats were administered oral zolmitriptan during the period of organogenesis at doses of 100 , 400 , and 1200 mg / kg / day , there was a dose - related increase in embryolethality which became statistically significant at the high dose .
The maternal plasma exposures at these doses were approximately 280 , 1100 , and 5000 times the exposure in humans receiving the maximum recommended total daily dose of 10 mg .
The high dose was maternally toxic , as evidenced by a decreased maternal body weight gain during gestation .
In a similar study in rabbits , embryolethality was increased at the maternally toxic doses of 10 and 30 mg / kg / day ( maternal plasma exposures equivalent to 11 and 42 times exposure in humans receiving the maximum recommended total daily dose of 10 mg ) , and increased incidences of fetal malformations ( fused sternebrae , rib anomalies ) and variations ( major blood vessel variations , irregular ossification pattern of ribs ) were observed at 30 mg / kg / day .
Three mg / kg / day was a no effect dose ( equivalent to human exposure at a dose of 10 mg ) .
When female rats were given zolmitriptan during gestation , parturition , and lactation , an increased incidence of hydronephrosis was found in the offspring at the maternally toxic dose of 400 mg / kg / day ( 1100 times human exposure ) .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether zolmitriptan is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when zolmitriptan is administered to a nursing woman .
Lactating rats dosed with zolmitriptan had milk levels equivalent to maternal plasma levels at 1 hour and 4 times higher than plasma levels at 4 hours .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of ZOMIG Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Therefore , ZOMIG is not recommended for use in patients under 18 years of age .
One randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trial evaluating zolmitriptan tablets ( 2 . 5 , 5 and 10 mg ) in pediatric patients aged 12 - 17 years evaluated a total of 696 adolescent migraineurs .
This study did not establish the efficacy of zolmitriptan compared to placebo in the treatment of migraine in adolescents .
Adverse events observed were similar in nature and frequency to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
Postmarketing experience with ZOMIG and other triptans includes a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced clinically serious adverse events that are similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
Geriatric Use : Although the pharmacokinetic disposition of the drug in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults , there is no information about the safety and effectiveness of zolmitriptan in this population because patients over age 65 were excluded from the controlled clinical trials .
( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations ) ADVERSE REACTIONS : Serious cardiac events , including myocardial infarction , have occurred following the use of ZOMIG Tablets .
These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Events reported , in association with drugs of this class , have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials : Among 2 , 633 patients treated with ZOMIG Tablets in the active and placebo controlled trials , no patients withdrew for reasons related to adverse events , but as patients treated a single headache in these trials , the opportunity for discontinuation was limited .
In a long - term , open label study where patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks for up to 1 year , 8 % ( 167 out of 2 , 058 ) withdrew from the trial because of adverse experience .
The most common events were paresthesia , asthenia , nausea , dizziness , pain , chest or neck tightness or heaviness , somnolence , and warm sensation .
Table 2 lists the adverse events that occurred in ≥ 2 % of the 2 , 074 patients in any one of the ZOMIG 1 mg , ZOMIG 2 . 5 mg or ZOMIG 5 mg Tablets dose groups of the controlled clinical trials .
Only events that were more frequent in a ZOMIG Tablets group compared to the placebo groups are included .
The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population .
In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials , these frequency estimates may not apply , as the conditions of use , reporting behavior , and the kinds of patients treated may differ .
Several of the adverse events appear dose related , notably paresthesia , sensation of heaviness or tightness in chest , neck , jaw , and throat , dizziness , somnolence , and possibly asthenia and nausea .
Table 2 : Adverse Experience Incidence in Five Placebo - Controlled Migraine Clinical Trials : Events Reported By ≥ 2 % Patients Treated With ZOMIG TabletsAdverse Event Type Placebo ( n = 401 ) ZOMIG 1 mg ( n = 163 ) ZOMIG 2 . 5 mg ( n = 498 ) ZOMIG 5 mg ( n = 1012 ) ATYPICAL SENSATIONS 6 % 12 % 12 % 18 % Hyperesthesia 1 % 1 % 1 % 2 % Paresthesia ( all types ) 2 % 5 % 7 % 9 % Sensation warm / cold 4 % 6 % 5 % 7 % PAIN AND PRESSURE SENSATIONS 7 % 13 % 14 % 22 % Chest - pain / tightness / pressure and / or heaviness 1 % 2 % 3 % 4 % Neck / throat / jaw - pain / tightness / pressure 3 % 4 % 7 % 10 % Heaviness other than chest or neck 1 % 1 % 2 % 5 % Pain − location specified 1 % 2 % 2 % 3 % Other − Pressure / tightness / heaviness 0 2 % 2 % 2 % DIGESTIVE 8 % 11 % 16 % 14 % Dry mouth 2 % 5 % 3 % 3 % Dyspepsia 1 % 3 % 2 % 1 % Dysphagia 0 % 0 % 0 % 2 % Nausea 4 % 4 % 9 % 6 % NEUROLOGICAL 10 % 11 % 17 % 21 % Dizziness 4 % 6 % 8 % 10 % Somnolence 3 % 5 % 6 % 8 % Vertigo 0 % 0 % 0 % 2 % OTHER Asthenia 3 % 5 % 3 % 9 % Palpitations 1 % 0 % < 1 % 2 % Myalgia < 1 % 1 % 1 % 2 % Myasthenia < 1 % 0 % 1 % 2 % Sweating 1 % 0 % 2 % 3 % ZOMIG is generally well tolerated .
Across all doses , most adverse reactions were mild and transient and did not lead to long - lasting effects .
The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender , weight , or age of the patients ; use of prophylactic medications ; or presence of aura .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events .
Other Events : In the paragraphs that follow , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical events are presented .
Because the reports include events observed in open and uncontrolled studies , the role of ZOMIG in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Furthermore , variability associated with adverse event reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse events , etc . , limit the value of the quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used ZOMIG Tablets ( n = 4 , 027 ) and reported an event divided by the total number of patients exposed to ZOMIG Tablets .
All reported events are included except those already listed in the previous table , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Atypical sensation : Infrequent was hyperesthesia .
General : Infrequent were allergy reaction , chills , facial edema , fever , malaise , and photosensitivity .
Cardiovascular : Infrequent were arrhythmias , hypertension , and syncope .
Rare were bradycardia , extrasystoles , postural hypotension , QT prolongation , tachycardia , and thrombophlebitis .
Digestive : Infrequent were increased appetite , tongue edema , esophagitis , gastroenteritis , liver function abnormality , and thirst .
Rare were anorexia , constipation , gastritis , hematemesis , pancreatitis , melena , and ulcer .
Hemic : Infrequent was ecchymosis .
Rare were cyanosis , thrombocytopenia , eosinophilia , and leukopenia .
Metabolic : Infrequent was edema .
Rare were hyperglycemia and alkaline phosphatase increased .
Musculoskeletal : Infrequent were back pain , leg cramps , and tenosynovitis .
Rare were arthritis , asthenia , tetany , and twitching .
Neurological : Infrequent were agitation , anxiety , depression , emotional lability , and insomnia .
Rare were akathisia , amnesia , apathy , ataxia , dystonia , euphoria , hallucinations , cerebral ischemia , hyperkinesia , hypotonia , hypertonia , and irritability .
Respiratory : Infrequent were bronchitis , bronchospasm , epistaxis , hiccup , laryngitis , and yawn .
Rare were apnea and voice alteration .
Skin : Infrequent were pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Special Senses : Infrequent were dry eye , eye pain , hyperacusis , ear pain , parosmia , and tinnitus .
Rare were diplopia and lacrimation .
Urogenital : Infrequent were hematuria , cystitis , polyuria , urinary frequency , urinary urgency .
Rare were miscarriage and dysmenorrhea .
The adverse experiences profile seen with ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets was similar to that seen with ZOMIG Tablets .
Postmarketing Experience with ZOMIG Tablets : The following section enumerates potentially important adverse events that have occurred in clinical practice and which have been reported spontaneously to various surveillance systems .
The events enumerated represent reports arising from both domestic and non - domestic use of oral zolmitriptan .
The events enumerated include all except those already listed in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section above or those too general to be informative .
Because the reports cite events reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience , frequency of events and the role of zolmitriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Cardiovascular : Coronary artery vasospasm ; transient myocardial ischemia , angina pectoris , and myocardial infarction .
Digestive : Very rare gastrointestinal ischemic events including splenic infarction , ischemic colitis and gastrointestinal infarction or necrosis have been reported ; these may present as bloody diarrhea or abdominal pain .
( See WARNINGS . )
Neurological : As with other acute migraine treatments including other 5HT1 agonists , there have been rare reports of headache .
General : As with other 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , there have been very rare reports of anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions in patients receiving ZOMIG .
There have been rare reports of hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema .
Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during the postmarketing period ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : The abuse potential of ZOMIG has not been assessed in clinical trials .
OVERDOSAGE : There is no experience with clinical overdose .
Volunteers receiving single 50 mg oral doses of zolmitriptan commonly experienced sedation .
The elimination half - life of ZOMIG is 3 hours ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , and therefore monitoring of patients after overdose with ZOMIG should continue for at least 15 hours or while symptoms or signs persist .
There is no specific antidote to zolmitriptan .
In cases of severe intoxication , intensive care procedures are recommended , including establishing and maintaining a patent airway , ensuring adequate oxygenation and ventilation , and monitoring and support of the cardiovascular system .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the plasma concentrations of zolmitriptan .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : ZOMIG Tablets In controlled clinical trials , single doses of 1 , 2 . 5 and 5 mg of ZOMIG Tablets were effective for the acute treatment of migraines in adults .
A greater proportion of patients had headache response following a 2 . 5 or 5 mg dose than following a 1 mg dose ( see Table 1 ) .
In the only direct comparison of 2 . 5 and 5 mg , there was little added benefit from the larger dose but side effects are generally increased at 5 mg ( see Table 2 ) .
Patients should , therefore , be started on 2 . 5 mg or lower .
A dose lower than 2 . 5 mg can be achieved by manually breaking the scored 2 . 5 mg tablet in half .
If the headache returns , the dose may be repeated after 2 hours , not to exceed 10 mg within a 24 - hour period .
Controlled trials have not adequately established the effectiveness of a second dose if the initial dose is ineffective .
The safety of treating an average of more than three headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
ZOMIG - ZMT Orally Disintegrating Tablets In a controlled clinical trial , a single dose of 2 . 5 mg of ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets was effective for the acute treatment of migraines in adults .
If the headache returns , the dose may be repeated after 2 hours , not to exceed 10 mg within a 24 - hour period .
Controlled trials have not adequately established the effectiveness of a second dose if the initial dose is ineffective .
The safety of treating an average of more than three headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
Administration with liquid is not necessary .
The orally disintegrating tablet is packaged in a blister .
Patients should be instructed not to remove the tablet from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The blister pack should then be peeled open , and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
It is not recommended to break the orally disintegrating tablet .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment have decreased clearance of zolmitriptan and significant elevation in blood pressure was observed in some patients .
Use of a low dose with blood pressure monitoring is recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY AND WARNINGS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED : 2 . 5 mg Tablets - Yellow , biconvex , round film - coated , scored tablets containing 2 . 5 mg of zolmitriptan identified with “ ZOMIG ” and “ 2 . 5 ” debossed on one side are supplied in cartons containing a blister pack of 6 tablets ( NDC 0310 - 0210 - 20 ) .
2 . 5 mg Orally Disintegrating Tablets - White , flat faced , uncoated , bevelled tablet containing 2 . 5 mg of zolmitriptan identified with a debossed “ Z ” on one side are supplied in cartons containing a blister pack of 6 tablets ( NDC 0310 - 0209 - 20 ) .
5 mg Tablets − Pink , biconvex , film - coated tablets containing 5 mg of zolmitriptan identified with “ ZOMIG ” and “ 5 ” debossed on one side are supplied in cartons containing a blister pack of 3 tablets ( NDC 0310 - 0211 - 25 ) .
5 mg Orally Disintegrating Tablets - White , flat faced , round , uncoated , bevelled tablet containing 5 . 0 mg of zolmitriptan identified with a debossed “ Z ” and “ 5 ” on one side and plain on the other are supplied in cartons containing a blister pack of 3 tablets ( NDC 0310 - 0213 - 21 ) .
Store both ZOMIG Tablets and ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
PATIENT INFORMATION The following wording is contained in a separate leaflet provided for patients .
ZOMIG ® ( zolmitriptan ) Tablets ZOMIG - ZMT ® ( zolmitriptan ) Orally Disintegrating Tablets Patient Information about ZOMIG ( Zo - mig ) for Migraines Generic Name : zolmitriptan ( zol - mi - trip - tan ) Information for the Consumer on ZOMIG ( zolmitriptan ) Tablets : Please read this leaflet carefully before you take ZOMIG Tablets .
This provides a summary of the information available on your medicine .
Please do not throw away this leaflet until you have finished your medicine .
You may need to read this leaflet again .
This leaflet does not contain all the information on ZOMIG Tablets .
For further information or advice , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Information About Your Medicine : The name of your medicine is ZOMIG Tablets .
It can be obtained only by prescription from your doctor .
The decision to use ZOMIG Tablets is one that you and your doctor should make jointly , taking into account your individual preferences and medical circumstances .
If you have risk factors for heart disease ( such as high blood pressure , high cholesterol , obesity , diabetes , smoking , strong family history of heart disease , or you are postmenopausal or a male over the age of 40 ) , you should tell your doctor , who should evaluate you for heart disease in order to determine if ZOMIG Tablets are appropriate for you .
This medicine was prescribed for you to treat your particular condition and should not be used by others or for any other condition .
• The Purpose of Your Medicine : ZOMIG Tablets are intended to relieve your migraine , but not to prevent or reduce the number of attacks you experience .
Use ZOMIG Tablets only to treat an actual migraine attack .
• Important Questions to Consider Before Taking ZOMIG Tablets : If the answer to any of the following questions is YES or if you do not know the answer , then you must discuss it with your doctor before you use ZOMIG Tablets .
• Do you have any chest pain , heart disease , shortness of breath , or irregular heartbeats ?
Have you had a heart attack ?
• Do you have risk factors for heart disease ( such as high blood pressure , high cholesterol , obesity , diabetes , smoking , strong family history of heart disease , or you are postmenopausal or a male over the age of 40 ) ?
• Have you had a stroke or problems with your blood circulation ?
• Do you have high blood pressure ?
• Are you pregnant ?
Do you think you might be pregnant ?
Are you trying to become pregnant ?
Are you not using adequate contraception ?
Are you breast feeding an infant ?
• If you are taking ZOMIG - ZMT ® , are you sensitive to phenylalanine ( a component of the artificial sweetener aspartame ) ?
• Have you ever had to stop taking this or any other medication because of an allergy or other problems ?
• Are you taking any other migraine medications , including 5 - HT1 agonists ( triptans ) or migraine medications containing ergotamine , dihydroergotamine , or methysergide ?
• Are you taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , two types of drugs for depression or other disorders ?
Common SSRIs are CELEXA ® ( citalopram HBr ) , LEXAPRO ® ( escitalopram oxalate ) , PAXIL ® ( paroxetine ) , PROZAC ® ( fluoxetine ) , SYMBYAX ® ( olanzapine / fluoxetine ) , ZOLOFT ® ( sertraline ) , SARAFEM ® ( fluoxetine ) , and LUVOX ® ( fluvoxamine ) .
Common SNRIs are CYMBALTA ® ( duloxetine ) and EFFEXOR ® ( venlafaxine ) .
• Are you taking cimetidine for gastrointestinal symptoms ?
• Have you had , or do you have , any disease of the liver or kidney ?
• Have you had , or do you have , epilepsy or seizures ?
• Is this headache different from your usual migraine attacks ?
Remember , if you answered YES to any of the above questions , then you must discuss it with your doctor .
• The Use of ZOMIG Tablets During Pregnancy : Do not use ZOMIG Tablets if you are pregnant , think you might be pregnant , are trying to become pregnant , or are not using adequate contraception , unless you have discussed this with your doctor .
• How to Use ZOMIG Tablets and ZOMIG - ZMT Orally Disintegrating Tablets : Adults should be started on a 2 . 5 mg dose or lower administered by mouth .
A dose lower than 2 . 5 mg can be achieved by manually breaking the conventional film - coated , scored 2 . 5 mg tablet in half .
It is not recommended to break the ZOMIG - ZMT Tablet .
If your headache comes back after your initial dose , a second dose may be administered anytime after 2 hours of taking the dose .
For any attack where you have no response to the first dose , do not take a second dose without first consulting with your doctor .
Do not take more than a total of 10 mg of ZOMIG in any 24 - hour period .
Discard any unused tablets or its portion that have been removed from the blister packaging .
Do not take ZOMIG with any other drug in the same class ( triptans ) within 24 hours or within 24 hours of taking ergotamine - type medications such as ergotamine , dihydroergotamine or methysergide to treat your migraine .
Additionally for ZOMIG - ZMT Tablets , the blister pack should be peeled open and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
• Side Effects to Watch for : • Some patients experience pain or tightness in the chest or throat , including muscle aches and pains , when using ZOMIG .
If this happens to you , then discuss it with your doctor before using any more ZOMIG .
If the chest pain is severe or does not go away , call your doctor immediately .
As with other drugs in this class ( triptans ) , there have been very rare reports of heart attack occurring in patients with and without risk factors for heart and blood vessel disease .
• Some people experience : alterations of heart rate ; temporary increase in blood pressure ; sudden and severe stomach pain .
Call your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms after taking ZOMIG .
• Shortness of breath ; wheeziness ; heart throbbing ; swelling of eyelids , face , or lips ; or a skin rash , skin lumps , or hives happens rarely .
If it happens to you , then tell your doctor immediately .
Do not take any more ZOMIG unless your doctor tells you to do so .
• Some people may have feelings of dry mouth , tingling , heat , heaviness , or pressure after treatment with ZOMIG .
A few people may feel drowsy , dizzy , tired , or sick .
Tell your doctor immediately if you have symptoms that you do not understand .
• Some people may have a reaction called serotonin syndrome , which can be life - threatening , when they use ZOMIG .
In particular , this reaction may occur when they use ZOMIG together with certain types of antidepressants known as SSRIs or SNRIs .
Symptoms may include confusion , hallucinations , fast heart beat , feeling faint , fever , sweating , muscle spasm , difficulty walking , and / or diarrhea .
Call your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms after taking ZOMIG .
• What To Do If An Overdose Is Taken : If you have taken more medication than you have been told , contact either your doctor , hospital emergency department , or nearest poison control center immediately .
• Storing Your Medicine : Keep your medicine in a safe place where children cannot reach it .
It may be harmful to children .
Store your medication away from light and moisture , and at a controlled room temperature .
If your medication has expired ( the expiration date is printed on the treatment pack ) , throw it away as instructed .
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment , do not keep any leftover medicine unless your doctor tells you to .
Throw away your medicine as instructed .
Be sure that discarded tablets are out of the reach of children .
ZOMIG and ZOMIG - ZMT are registered trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
Other brands mentioned are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with AstraZeneca or its products .
© AstraZeneca 2007 , 2008 ZOMIG ® ( zolmitriptan ) Tablets Manufactured for : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , Delaware 19850 By : IPR Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Canóvanas , PR 00729 ZOMIG - ZMT ® ( zolmitriptan ) Orally Disintegrating Tablets Manufactured for : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , Delaware 19850 By : CIMA Labs , Inc .
Eden Prairie , Minnesota 55344 Rev 10 / 08 SIC 30086 – 05 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 7103 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
