Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Use for the temporary relief of pain Warnings For external use only Do not use • • on puncture wounds , cuts , irritated or swollen skin • • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or with other topical analgesics at the same time • • with a heating pad or apply local heat to the area of use When using this product • • use only as directed • • do not bandage tightly • • avoid contact with the eyes • • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • • redness or irritation develops • • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • clean and dry affected area • • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • • use 1 patch at a time and not more than 3 to 4 times daily children 12 years or younger : consult a doctor Inactive ingredients aluminum glycinate , aluminum hydroxide , cellulose gum , glycerin , methyl acrylate / 2 - ethylhexyl acrylate copolymer , methylparaben , nonoxynol - 30 , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , silica , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , urea , water Package / Label Principal Display Panel MAX STRENGTH Aspercreme ® with 4 % LIDOCAINE PAIN RELIEF PATCH NUMBS AWAY PAIN FAST ACTING TARGETS NERVES FLEXIBLE FABRIC # 1 LIDOCAINE BRAND * XL PATCH 71 % LARGER † FRAGRANCE - FREE Contains 1 Patch 4 - ¾ ” x 7 - 7 / 8 ” ( 12 cm x 20 cm ) Pain Relieving Ointment on a Breathable Adhesive Pad * Among OTC topical analgesics .
† Than 10 cm x 14 cm Aspercreme ® patches .
CHATTEM ® A SANOFI COMPANY Dist .
By Chattem , Inc . , a Sanofi Company P . O . Box 2219 , Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2020 www . aspercreme . com Made in Japan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
