Clear Eyes Redness Relief Drug Facts Active Ingredients Glycerin 0 . 25 % Purpose Lubricant Active Ingredients Naphazoline hydrochloride 0 . 012 % Purpose Redness Reliever Uses • • relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations • • for use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye • • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Warnings For external use only Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma .
When using this product : • • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • • overuse may produce increased redness of the eye • • remove contact lenses before using • • to avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface • • replace cap after using Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain • • you experience changes in vision • • you experience continued redness or irritation of the eye • • the condition worsens • • symptoms last for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to 4 times daily .
Other Information • • store at room temperature • • Inactive Ingredients benzalkonium chloride , boric acid , edetate disodium , purified water , sodium borate Questions ?
1 - 877 - 274 - 1787 www . cleareyes . com .
Clear Eyes Redness Relief , Handy Pocket Pal Drug Facts Active Ingredients Glycerin 0 . 25 % Purpose Lubricant Active Ingredients Naphazoline hydrochloride 0 . 012 % Purpose Redness Reliever Uses • • Relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations .
• • For use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye .
• • Temporarily relieves burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye .
Warnings For external use only Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy .
Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma .
When using this product • • To avoid contamination , do not touch tip to any surface .
• • Replace cap after using .
• • Overuse may cause increased redness of the eye .
• • Pupils may become enlarged temporarily .
Stop use & ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain • • you experience changes in vision • • you experience continued redness or irritation of the eye • • the condition worsens • • symptoms last for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to four times daily .
Other Information • • Store Between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • Remove contact lenses before using .
Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Inactive Ingredients benzalkonium chloride , boric acid , edetate disodium , purified water , sodium borate Questions ?
1 - 877 - 274 - 1787 www . cleareyes . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Clear eyes REDNESS RELIEF LUBRICANT / REDNESS RELIEVER EYE DROPS Sterile 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
