DESCRIPTION : This product is a gluten free prescription regimen of prenatal multi - vitamin , multi - mineral and omega - 3 fatty acids , supplied as tablets and softgel capsules .
Each tablet contains : Supplement Facts Serving Size : 1 Tablet Amount Per Serving Vitamin A ( beta carotene ) 2 , 800 IU Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) 120 mg Vitamin D ( cholecalciferol ) 820 IU Vitamin E ( dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 3 mg Vitamin B 1 ( thiamine mononitrate ) 1 . 8 mg Vitamin B 2 ( riboflavin ) 4 mg Niacinamide 20 mg Vitamin B 6 ( pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 50 mg Folic acid 1 mg Vitamin B 12 ( cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Calcium ( calcium carbonate ) 200 mg Iron ( polysaccharide iron complex and sodium iron ( III ) ethylenediaminetetraacetate , Ferrazone ® ) 25 mg Magnesium ( magnesium oxide ) 25 mg Zinc ( zinc oxide ) 25 mg Copper ( cupric oxide ) 2 mg Iodine 220 mcg OTHER INGREDIENTS : microcrystalline cellulose , starch , silica , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , talc , FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 1 & no . 2 aluminum lake WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
Each softgel capsule contains in a clear solution of 400 mg purified omega - 3 long - chain fatty acids including DHA ( docosahexaenoic acid ) and EPA ( eicosapentaenoic acid ) .
Supplement Facts Serving Size : 1 Softgel Capsule Amount Per Serving Total omega - 3 long - chain fatty acids ( as DHA and EPA ) 400 mg OTHER INGREDIENTS : gelatin , glycerin , purified water INDICATIONS : This product is a gluten free prescription regimen of prenatal multi - vitamin , multi - mineral and omega - 3 fatty acid supplements indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women throughout pregnancy and in the post - natal period for both lactating and non - lactating mothers .
This product is also useful in improving the nutritional status prior to conception .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients , including fish or fish oil .
WARNINGS : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B 12 is deficient .
Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega - 3 fatty acids , including alpha - linolenic acid ( ALA ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times , administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses , including those taking anticoagulants .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure the diagnosis of pernicious anemia ( hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive ) .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone , as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Before , during and after pregnancy , one tablet and one softgel capsule taken by mouth daily or as directed by a physician .
The tablet and softgel capsule may be taken together or at different times of the day .
Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram ( 1 , 000 mg ) per day .
HOW SUPPLIED : A 30 - day regimen supplied in a carton , NDC 44118 - 807 - 30 , consisting of one bottle containing 30 maroon tablets , imprinted “ 800 ” , and one bottle containing 30 softgel capsules .
These child - resistant bottles are tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
STORAGE : Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Relative humidity not to exceed 65 % .
Protect from moisture , excessive heat and freezing .
Note that contact with moisture may produce surface discoloration of the tablet .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 .
www . DuetDHA . com Manufactured for : Eckson Labs , LLC 1000 N . West St . , Suite 1200 , # 927 Wilmington , DE 19801 Ferrazone ® is a registered trademark of AkzoNobel b v 1800009 v1 Rev . 07 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
