Active Ingredients Benzyl Alcohol 10 % Camphor 0 . 6 % Menthol 0 . 4 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with insect bites and minor skin irritations .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • face or genital areas • on a reas of blistered or broken skin • with a compress after application When using this product do not get into eyes if contact occurs , flush eyes with water Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply to affected area not more than 3 times daily .
• Children under 2 years of age : do not use , ask a doctor .
• Severe reactions to Urushiol ( the chemical released by the plant , which causes the irritation ) can look like chemical burns and have a thick leathery appearance .
Additional applications may be necessary .
• Test product on small patch of skin before applying to the entire body .
Other information • Store at room temperature .
• You may report a serious adverse reaction to Report Reaction , LLC .
PO Box 22 , Plainsboro , NJ 08536 - 0222 .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Structure XL , Cutina GMS , Phenoxol T , Cremaphor CO 40 , Butylene Glycol , Zinc Acetate , Steareth - 2 , Steareth - 20 , Steareth 100 , Proaqua ISL , Pelemol IPM , Estol 1543 , Glydant Plus , Dimethicone , VE Acetate , Allantoin .
Made in the U . S . A . for : IVY - DRY , INC .
299 - B Fairfield Ave . Fairfield , NJ 07070 © 2012 Ivy - Dry , Inc .
Questions or Comments www . ivydry . com If you get Poison Ivy , you know you ’ ll want to use a product with proven effectiveness that you can trust .
Look no further than Ivy Dry Products known and trusted for over 60 years .
Product Labeling TEMPORARY RELIEF OF PAIN AND ITCHING Associated with Minor Skin Irritations and Insect Bites External Analgesic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
