Drug Facts Active Ingredients Octinoxate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 4 . 0 % Avobenzone 2 . 7 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply : • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Talc , Dimethicone , Propanediol , Polyester - 8 , PEG - 8 Beeswax , Glycereth - 6 Tricocoate , Cetyl Alcohol , Magnesium Stearate , C10 - 18 Triglycerides , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium PEG - 4 PEI - 6 Phosphonate , Ceteth - 20 , Aluminum Hydroxide , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Olea Europea ( Olive ) Fruit Extract , Triticum Culgare ( Wheat ) Germ Extract , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Coleus Forskohilii Root Extract , Polygonum Cuspidatum ( Japanese Bamboo ) Extract , Xanthan Gum , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Mica , Steareth - 20 , Polyacrylamide , Stearic Acid , Tocopheryl Acetate , Sodium Chloride , Cellulose Gum , C13 - 13 Isoparaffin , Sodium Hydroxide , Laureth - 7 , Rhodochrosite Extract , Hematite Extract , Sea Water , Malachite Extract , Lycium Barbarum Fruit Extract , Smithsonite Extract , Sodium Benzoate , Olivine Extract .
May Contain : Titanium Dioxide , Iron Oxides .
Other Information • Protect the product this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
Call Laura Geller Beauty , LLC 1 ( 800 ) MAKE UP4 Carton Package Label LAURA GELLER BEAUTY INGENUITY skin elements liquid veil foundation broad spectrum SPF 25 GOLDEN MEDIUM 1 . 7 fl .
oz .
/ 50 ml Treat skin to the best of both worlds with this make - up / skincare hybrid formula !
The lightweight liquid hydrates kin while providing natural , sheer - to - medium coverage and SPF 25 UVA / UVB protection .
Skin is nourished with Mineral Water and Goji Berry and protected with a powerful antioxidant complex .
Vitamin E conditions and helps protect skin .
with a veil - like texture to blur fine lines and wrinkles , Skin Elements leaves skin radiant , even and healthy looking ... the elements of sun - protected beauty !
TO USE : Apply over your favorite Spackle ® Under Make - Up Primer with a foundation brush or fingertips .
Smooth until perfectly blended .
Avoid the eye area .
Of the women who have tried Skin Elements Liquid Veil SPF25 Foundation : • 96 % of women saw an immediate improvement in skin moisturization .
• 93 % of women saw an immediate improvement in skin redness .
• 96 % of women saw an immediate improve in skin soothing .
• In a biophysical assessment of the skin , Skin Elements increased hydration by 64 % after one month of use • In a biophysical assessment of the skin , Skin Elements decreased skin redness by 28 % after one month of use .
Made in Italy DISTRIBUTED BY LAURA GELLER BEAUTY , LLC NEW YORK , NY 10022 www . laurageller . com 00 - 74202 - 04 - RE UPC / FPO 849154003945 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bottle Label See carton for complete Drug Facts information Naritaweg 165 , 1043 B W Amsterdam The Netherlands [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
