Drug Facts Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , 17 grams ( cup filled to the indicated " 17 GRAMS " line ) Osmotic Laxative relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have nausea , vomiting , or abdominal pain a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
When using this product you may have loose , watery , more frequent stools .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or your nausea , bloating , cramping or abdominal pain gets worse .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
you get diarrhea you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor This product is supplied with a dosing cup marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line .
adults and children 17 years of age and older : fill to indicated " 17 GRAMS " line on cup which is marked to indicate the correct dose 17 grams stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage ( cold , hot or room temperature ) then drink use once a day use no more than 7 days children 16 years of age or younger : ask a doctor store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) tamper - evident : do not use if seal under cap printed with " SEALED for YOUR PROTECTION " is missing , open or broken .
none Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
