Drug Facts Active Ingredients Allantoin 0 . 5 % Dimethicone 1 % Menthol 0 . 1 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Uses - Temporarily relieves the pain and itching associated with cold sores / fever blisters .
- Temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked lips .
Warnings For external use only Do not use - if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product - during pregnancy or breast - feeding .
When using this product - avoid contact with eyes - apply only to affected areas - avoid applying directy inside your mouth - do not share this product with anyone .
This may spread infection .
- dispose cotton swab immediately after use - discard after 1 month of opening the tube Stop use and ask a doctor if - condition worsens - symptoms last more than 7 days - symptoms clear up and return in a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years or over : - Apply to affected area on face or lips at first sign ( tingle ) of cold sore / fever blister - Open tube , saturate cotton swab with 8 drops of liquid - Use the cotton swab to apply to affeted area on face or lips .
Do ot touch the sore with your fingers .
Continue for 3 seconds until the cold sore is completely covered and sealed .
- Dispose of cotton swab - do not reuse - Wash hands before and after application .
- Apply 2 times daily , not to exceed 3 to 4 times daily until sore is healed children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information Store at room temperature Do not freeze Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis , Calendula Officinalis Flower , Copper Sulfate , Demineralized water , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Laureth - 9 , Maltodextrin , Opuntia Ficus Indica Stem , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated CAstor Oil , Pentylene Glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Rhododendrum Ferrugineum , Trideceth - 9 .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 257 - 7071 ( English / Spanish ) Weekdays Visit us at www . zzipusa . com Distributed in the USA by : GG Advisors , LLC 923 Haddonfield Rd . , Suite 300 Cherry Hill , NJ 08002 1 - 800 - 257 - 7071 Switzerland developed by Zzip AG Made in the Netherlands Product labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
