Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Pourpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic uses • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aces and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphusema When using this product do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container when heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions See important warnings under " When using this product " • adults + children 2 yrs + over : • rub a thick layer on chest + throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedar leaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol claims The active ingredients in Health Mart Chest Rub work naturally by breathing in the medicated vapors to relieve coughing due to colds .
Health Mart Chest Rub also relieves minor muscles aches and pains .
This product is not manufactured by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks VaporRub Adverse Reactions distributed by McKESSON Distributed by McKesson One Post Street , San Francisco , CA 94104 Money Back Guarantee www . healthmart . com / healthmardbrand principal display panel Compare to Vicks VapoRub HealthMart NDC 62011 - 0075 - 1 Chest Rub Cough suppressant Topical analgesic NET WT 3 . 53 oz ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
