451406 / Issued : December 2017 Sodium Acetate Injection , USP Rx only PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE — NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION FOR ADDITIVE USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION IN INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS .
DESCRIPTION : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of sodium acetate in water for injection .
The solution is administered after dilution by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each mL contains : 328 mg sodium acetate ( anhydrous ) which provides 4 mEq each of sodium ( Na + ) and acetate ( CH 3 COO - ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH may have been adjusted with glacial acetic acid to 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 8 mOsmol / mL ( calc ) ; specific gravity 1 . 1511 .
The solution is intended as an alternative to sodium chloride to provide sodium ion ( Na + ) for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
Sodium acetate , USP anhydrous is chemically designated as CH 3 COONa , a hygroscopic powder very soluble in water .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture program and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 140 mEq / L .
The sodium ion exerts a primary role in controlling total body water and its distribution .
Acetate ( CH 3 COO - ) is a hydrogen ion acceptor .
It also serves as an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO 3 - ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This conversion has been shown to proceed readily , even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) is indicated as a source of sodium for addition to large volume intravenous fluids to prevent or correct hyponatremia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific intravenous fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) must be diluted before use .
To avoid sodium overload and water retention , infuse sodium - containing solutions slowly .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS : Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Sodium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by the serum sodium level .
Caution should be exercised in administering sodium - containing solutions to patients with severe renal function impairment , cirrhosis , cardiac failure or other edematous or sodium - retaining states , as well as in patients with oliguria or anuria .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Acetate Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether Sodium Acetate Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Acetate Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the age groups infant to adolescent .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sodium ions are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium - containing solutions ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGE : In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusion containing sodium acetate immediately and institute corrective therapy as indicated to reduce elevated serum sodium levels , and restore acid - base balance if necessary ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) is administered intravenously only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
Serum sodium should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , transfer the desired amount to other intravenous fluids to provide the appropriate number of milliequivalents ( mEq ) of sodium acetate .
Sodium Acetate Injection , USP ( 4 mEq per mL ) in the Pharmacy Bulk Package is designed for use with manual , gravity flow operations and automated compounding devices for preparing intravenous nutritional admixtures .
Admixtures must be stored under refrigeration and used within 24 hours after compounding .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Directions for Dispensing from Pharmacy Bulk Package The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the Pharmacy Admixture Service only in a laminar flow hood .
It should be inserted into the ring sling ( plastic hanging device ) provided and suspended as a unit in the laminar flow hood .
The container closure should be penetrated only one time utilizing a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured distribution of the contents .
Swab vial stopper with an antiseptic solution .
Insert the dispensing set into the vial using aseptic technique ( see graphic illustration below ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Once the sterile dispensing set has been inserted into the container , withdrawal of the contents should be accomplished without delay .
However , if this is not possible , a maximum time of 4 hours from the initial entry may be allowed to complete fluid aliquoting / transferring operations .
Discard the container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Acetate Injection , USP is packaged in a pharmacy bulk package vial , 20 vials per tray , and is available as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Sodium Acetate Content ( % ) Na + ( sodium ) mEq / mL CH3COO - ( acetate ) mEq / mL mOsmol / mL Fill Vol .
( mL ) 322100 63323 - 032 - 00 32 . 8 4 4 8 100 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451406 Issued : December 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Sodium Acetate 400 mEq per 100 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 032 - 04 Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 400 mEq per 100 mL ( 4 mEq per mL ) PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Only 100 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Sodium Acetate 400 mEq per 100 mL Tray Label NDC 63323 - 032 - 00 Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 400 mEq per 100 mL ( 4 mEq per mL ) PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE – NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION For Intravenous Use Only 20 ( 1 x 20 ) 100 mL Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
