Rx only FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY WARNING Fludarabine should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of antineoplastic therapy .
Fludarabine can severely suppress bone marrow function .
When used at high doses in dose - ranging studies in patients with acute leukemia , fludarabine was associated with severe neurologic effects , including blindness , coma , and death .
This severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity has been rarely ( 0 . 2 % ) reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
In a clinical investigation using fludarabine in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
DESCRIPTION Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP contains fludarabine phosphate , a fluorinated nucleotide analog of the antiviral agent vidarabine , 9 - ß - D - arabinofuranosyladenine ( ara - A ) that is relatively resistant to deamination by adenosine deaminase .
Each mL contains 25 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate , 25 mg of mannitol , water for injection , q . s . , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 6 . 8 .
The pH range for the final product is 6 . 0 to 7 . 1 .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is a sterile solution intended for intravenous administration .
The chemical name for fludarabine phosphate is 9 H - Purin - 6 - amine , 2 - fluoro - 9 - ( 5 - O - phosphono - ß - D - arabinofuranosyl ) ( 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP ) .
The structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 10 H 13 FN 5 O 7 P M . W . 365 . 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Fludarabine phosphate is rapidly dephosphorylated to 2 - fluoro - ara - A and then phosphorylated intracellularly by deoxycytidine kinase to the active triphosphate , 2 - fluoro - ara - ATP .
This metabolite appears to act by inhibiting DNA polymerase alpha , ribonucleotide reductase and DNA primase , thus inhibiting DNA synthesis .
The mechanism of action of this antimetabolite is not completely characterized and may be multi - faceted .
Phase I studies in humans have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is rapidly converted to the active metabolite , 2 - fluoro - ara - A , within minutes after intravenous infusion .
Consequently , clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2 - fluoro - ara - A pharmacokinetics .
After the five daily doses of 25 mg 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP / m 2 to cancer patients infused over 30 minutes , 2 - fluoro - ara - A concentrations show a moderate accumulation .
During a 5 - day treatment schedule , 2 - fluoro - ara - A plasma trough levels increased by a factor of about 2 .
The terminal half - life of 2 - fluoro - ara - A was estimated as approximately 20 hours .
In vitro , plasma protein binding of fludarabine ranged between 19 % and 29 % .
A correlation was noted between the degree of absolute granulocyte count nadir and increased area under the concentration x time curve ( AUC ) .
Special Populations Pediatric Patients Limited pharmacokinetic data for fludarabine phosphate for injection are available from a published study of children ( ages 1 to 21 years ) with refractory acute leukemias or solid tumors ( Children ’ s Cancer Group Study 097 ) .
When fludarabine phosphate for injection was administered as a loading dose over 10 minutes immediately followed by a 5 - day continuous infusion , steady - state conditions were reached early .
Patients with Renal Impairment The total body clearance of the principal metabolite 2 - fluoro - ara - A correlated with the creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the drug .
Renal clearance represents approximately 40 % of the total body clearance .
Patients with moderate renal impairment ( 17 to 41 mL / min / m 2 ) receiving 20 % reduced fludarabine dose had a similar exposure ( AUC ; 21 versus 20 nM • h / mL ) compared to patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended dose .
The mean total body clearance was 172 mL / min for normal and 124 mL / min for patients with moderately impaired renal function .
Clinical Studies Two single - arm open - label studies of fludarabine have been conducted in adult patients with CLL refractory to at least one prior standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
In a study conducted by M . D . Anderson Cancer Center ( MDAH ) , 48 patients were treated with a dose of 22 to 40 mg / m 2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
Another study conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group ( SWOG ) involved 31 patients treated with a dose of 15 to 25 mg / m 2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The overall objective response rates were 48 % and 32 % in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
The complete response rate in both studies was 13 % ; the partial response rate was 35 % in the MDAH study and 19 % in the SWOG study .
These response rates were obtained using standardized response criteria developed by the National Cancer Institute CLL Working Group and were achieved in heavily pre - treated patients .
The ability of fludarabine to induce a significant rate of response in refractory patients suggests minimal cross - resistance with commonly used anti - CLL agents .
The median time to response in the MDAH and SWOG studies was 7 weeks ( range of 1 to 68 weeks ) and 21 weeks ( range of 1 to 53 weeks ) respectively .
The median duration of disease control was 91 weeks ( MDAH ) and 65 weeks ( SWOG ) .
The median survival of all refractory CLL patients treated with fludarabine was 43 weeks and 52 weeks in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Rai stage improved to Stage II or better in 7 of 12 MDAH responders ( 58 % ) and in 5 of 7 SWOG responders ( 71 % ) who were Stage III or IV at baseline .
In the combined studies , mean hemoglobin concentration improved from 9 g / dL at baseline to 11 . 8 g / dL at the time of response in a subgroup of anemic patients .
Similarly , average platelet count improved from 63 , 500 / mm 3 to 103 , 300 / mm 3 at the time of response in a subgroup of patients who were thrombocytopenic at baseline .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) who have not responded to or whose disease has progressed during treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
The safety and effectiveness of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP in previously untreated or non - refractory patients with CLL have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is contraindicated in those patients who are hypersensitive to this drug or its components .
WARNINGS : ( See boxed warning ) There are clear dose - dependent toxic effects seen with fludarabine .
Dose levels approximately 4 times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than that recommended for CLL ( 25 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days ) were associated with a syndrome characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
Symptoms appeared from 21 to 60 days following the last dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 % ) who received fludarabine at high doses ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) developed this severe neurotoxicity .
This syndrome has been reported rarely in patients treated with doses in the range of the recommended CLL dose of 25 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days every 28 days .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine on the central nervous system is unknown ; however , patients have received the recommended dose for up to 15 courses of therapy .
Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine .
In a Phase I study in solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 to 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 to 32 ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of fludarabine requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia or a positive Coombs ’ test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
The mechanism ( s ) which predispose patients to the development of this complication has not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease has been observed rarely after transfusion of non - irradiated blood in fludarabine treated patients .
Consideration should , therefore , be given to the use of irradiated blood products in those patients requiring transfusions while undergoing treatment with fludarabine .
In a clinical investigation using fludarabine in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) in adults , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
Of the 133 CLL adult patients in the two trials , there were 29 fatalities during study .
Approximately 50 % of the fatalities were due to infection and 25 % due to progressive disease .
Pregnancy Category D Fludarabine may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fludarabine phosphate was teratogenic in rats and in rabbits .
Fludarabine phosphate was administered intravenously at doses of 0 , 1 , 10 or 30 mg / kg / day to pregnant rats on days 6 to 15 of gestation .
At 10 and 30 mg / kg / day in rats , there was an increased incidence of various skeletal malformations .
Fludarabine phosphate was administered intravenously at doses of 0 , 1 , 5 or 8 mg / kg / day to pregnant rabbits on days 6 to 15 of gestation .
Dose - related teratogenic effects manifested by external deformities and skeletal malformations were observed in the rabbits at 5 and 8 mg / kg / day .
Drug - related deaths or toxic effects on maternal and fetal weights were not observed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If fludarabine is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
PRECAUTIONS General Fludarabine is a potent antineoplastic agent with potentially significant toxic side effects .
Patients undergoing therapy should be closely observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity .
Periodic assessment of peripheral blood counts is recommended to detect the development of anemia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
Tumor lysis syndrome associated with fludarabine treatment has been reported in CLL patients with large tumor burdens .
Since fludarabine can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
There are inadequate data on dosing of patients with renal insufficiency .
Fludarabine must be administered cautiously in patients with renal insufficiency .
The total body clearance of 2 - fluoro - ara - A has been shown to be directly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Patients with moderate impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) should have their fludarabine dose reduced by 20 % and be monitored closely .
Fludarabine is not recommended for patients with severely impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ’ s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression .
Drug Interactions The use of fludarabine in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of severe pulmonary toxicity ( see WARNINGS ) .
Carcinogenesis No animal carcinogenicity studies with fludarabine have been conducted .
Mutagenesis Fludarabine phosphate was not mutagenic to bacteria ( Ames test ) or mammalian cells ( HGRPT assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells ) either in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vitro to Chinese hamster ovary cells ( chromosome aberrations in the presence of metabolic activation ) and induced sister chromatid exchanges both with and without metabolic activation .
In addition , fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vivo ( mouse micronucleus assay ) but was not mutagenic to germ cells ( dominant lethal test in male mice ) .
Impairment of Fertility Studies in mice , rats and dogs have demonstrated dose - related adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Observations consisted of a decrease in mean testicular weights in mice and rats with a trend toward decreased testicular weights in dogs and degeneration and necrosis of spermatogenic epithelium of the testes in mice , rats and dogs .
The possible adverse effects on fertility in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D ( See WARNINGS ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from fludarabine , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug for the mother .
Pediatric Use Data submitted to the FDA was insufficient to establish efficacy in any childhood malignancy .
Fludarabine was evaluated in 62 pediatric patients ( median age 10 , range 1 to 21 ) with refractory acute leukemia ( 45 patients ) or solid tumors ( 17 patients ) .
The fludarabine regimen tested for pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia ( ALL ) patients was a loading bolus of 10 . 5 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 30 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
In 12 pediatric patients with solid tumors , dose - limiting myelosuppression was observed with a loading dose of 8 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 23 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
The maximum tolerated dose was a loading dose of 7 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 20 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
Treatment toxicity included bone marrow suppression .
Platelet counts appeared to be more sensitive to the effects of fludarabine than hemoglobin and white blood cell counts .
Other adverse events included fever , chills , asthenia , rash , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and infection .
There were no reported occurrences of peripheral neuropathy or pulmonary hypersensitivity reaction .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever and chills , infection , and nausea and vomiting .
Other commonly reported events include malaise , fatigue , anorexia , and weakness .
Serious opportunistic infections have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine .
The most frequently reported adverse events and those reactions which are more clearly related to the drug are arranged below according to body system .
Hematopoietic Systems Hematologic events ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and / or anemia ) were reported in the majority of CLL patients treated with fludarabine .
During fludarabine treatment of 133 patients with CLL , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm 3 in 59 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 60 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 55 % .
Myelosuppression may be severe , cumulative , and may affect multiple cell lines .
Bone marrow fibrosis occurred in one CLL patient treated with fludarabine .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in postmarketing surveillance .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported to occur in patients receiving fludarabine ( see WARNINGS ) .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
Metabolic Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported in CLL patients treated with fludarabine .
This complication may include hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , hyperkalemia , hematuria , urate crystalluria , and renal failure .
The onset of this syndrome may be heralded by flank pain and hematuria .
Nervous System ( See WARNINGS ) .
Objective weakness , agitation , confusion , visual disturbances , and coma have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine at the recommended dose .
Peripheral neuropathy has been observed in patients treated with fludarabine and one case of wrist - drop was reported .
Pulmonary System Pneumonia , a frequent manifestation of infection in CLL patients , occurred in 16 % and 22 % of those treated with fludarabine in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions to fludarabine characterized by dyspnea , cough and interstitial pulmonary infiltrate have been observed .
In postmarketing experience , cases of severe pulmonary toxicity have been observed with fludarabine use which resulted in ARDS , respiratory distress , pulmonary hemorrhage , pulmonary fibrosis , and respiratory failure .
After an infectious origin has been excluded , some patients experienced symptom improvement with corticosteroids .
Gastrointestinal System Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , stomatitis , and gastrointestinal bleeding have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine .
Cardiovascular Edema has been frequently reported .
One patient developed a pericardial effusion possibly related to treatment with fludarabine .
No other severe cardiovascular events were considered to be drug related .
Genitourinary System Rare cases of hemorrhagic cystitis have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine .
Skin Skin toxicity , consisting primarily of skin rashes , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine .
Data in the following table are derived from the 133 patients with CLL who received fludarabine in the MDAH and SWOG studies .
PERCENT OF CLL PATIENTS REPORTING NON - HEMATOLOGIC ADVERSE EVENTS ADVERSE EVENTS MDAH ( N = 101 ) SWOG ( N = 32 ) ANY ADVERSE EVENT 88 % 91 % BODY AS A WHOLE 72 84 FEVER 60 69 CHILLS 11 19 FATIGUE 10 38 INFECTION 33 44 PAIN 20 22 MALAISE 8 6 DIAPHORESIS 1 13 ALOPECIA 0 3 ANAPHYLAXIS 1 0 HEMORRHAGE 1 0 HYPERGLYCEMIA 1 6 DEHYDRATION 1 0 NEUROLOGICAL 21 69 WEAKNESS 9 65 PARESTHESIA 4 12 HEADACHE 3 0 VISUAL DISTURBANCE 3 15 HEARING LOSS 2 6 SLEEP DISORDER 1 3 DEPRESSION 1 0 CEREBELLAR SYNDROME 1 0 IMPAIRED MENTATION 1 0 PULMONARY 35 69 COUGH 10 44 PNEUMONIA 16 22 DYSPNEA 9 22 SINUSITIS 5 0 PHARYNGITIS 0 9 UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 2 16 ALLERGIC PNEUMONITIS 0 6 EPISTAXIS 1 0 HEMOPTYSIS 1 6 BRONCHITIS 1 0 HYPOXIA 1 0 GASTROINTESTINAL 46 63 NAUSEA / VOMITING 36 31 DIARRHEA 15 13 ANOREXIA 7 34 STOMATITIS 9 0 GI BLEEDING 3 13 ESOPHAGITIS 3 0 MUCOSITIS 2 0 LIVER FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL LIVER FUNCTION TEST 1 3 CHOLELITHIASIS 0 3 CONSTIPATION 1 3 DYSPHAGIA 1 0 CUTANEOUS 17 18 RASH 15 15 PRURITUS 1 3 SEBORRHEA 1 0 GENITOURINARY 12 22 DYSURIA 4 3 URINARY INFECTION 2 15 HEMATURIA 2 3 RENAL FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL RENAL FUNCTION TEST 1 0 PROTEINURIA 1 0 HESITANCY 0 3 CARDIOVASCULAR 12 38 EDEMA 8 19 ANGINA 0 6 CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE 0 3 ARRHYTHMIA 0 3 SUPRAVENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA 0 3 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 0 3 DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS 1 3 PHLEBITIS 1 3 TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK 1 0 ANEURYSM 1 0 CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT 0 3 MUSCULOSKELETAL 7 16 MYALGIA 4 16 OSTEOPOROSIS 2 0 ARTHRALGIA 1 0 TUMOR LYSIS SYNDROME 1 0 More than 3 , 000 adult patients received fludarabine in studies of other leukemias , lymphomas , and other solid tumors .
The spectrum of adverse effects reported in these studies was consistent with the data presented above .
OVERDOSAGE High doses of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP ( see WARNINGS section ) have been associated with an irreversible central nervous system toxicity characterized by delayed blindness , coma , and death .
High doses are also associated with severe thrombocytopenia and neutropenia due to bone marrow suppression .
There is no known specific antidote for Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Dose The recommended adult dose of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is 25 mg / m 2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP .
These include advanced age , renal insufficiency , and bone marrow impairment .
Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established .
It is recommended that three additional cycles of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued .
Renal Insufficiency Adult patients with moderate impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) should have a 20 % dose reduction of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP should not be administered to patients with severely impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
Preparation of Solutions Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP : Each mL contains 25 mg fludarabine phosphate , 25 mg mannitol , water for injection , q . s . ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 6 . 8 .
The pH range for the final product is 6 . 0 to 7 . 1 .
In clinical studies , the product has been diluted in 100 cc or 125 cc of 5 % dextrose injection USP or 0 . 9 % sodium chloride USP .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP contains no antimicrobial preservative and thus should be used within 8 hours of initial entry .
Care must be taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Handling and Disposal Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be considered .
Consideration should be given to handling and disposal according to guidelines issued for cytotoxic drugs .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published .
1 – 8 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
Caution should be exercised in the handling of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP .
The use of latex gloves and safety glasses is recommended to avoid exposure in case of breakage of the vial or other accidental spillage .
If the solution contacts the skin or mucous membranes , wash thoroughly with soap and water ; rinse eyes thoroughly with plain water .
Avoid exposure by inhalation or by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes .
HOW SUPPLIED Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is supplied as a clear , sterile solution .
Each mL contains 25 mg of fludarabine phosphate , 25 mg of mannitol , water for injection , q . s . ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 6 . 8 .
The pH range for the final product is 6 . 0 to 7 . 1 .
Product No .
NDC No .
109002 63323 - 192 - 02 Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP , 50 mg per 2 mL ( 25 mg per mL ) in a 2 mL single dose vial , packaged individually .
REFRIGERATE AT : 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
REFERENCES • ONS Clinical Practice Committee .
Cancer Chemotherapy Guidelines and Recommendations for Practice .
Pittsburgh , Pa : Oncology Nursing Society .
1999 : 32 - 41 .
• Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs .
Washington , DC ; Division of Safety , Clinical Center Pharmacy Department and Cancer Nursing Services , National Institute of Health ; 1992 .
US Department of Health and Human Services , Public Health Service Publication NIH 92 - 2621 .
• AMA Council on Scientific Affairs .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA .
1985 ; 253 : 1590 - 1591 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure — Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
1987 .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Sc . D . , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , MA 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia : Guidelines and Recommendations for Safe Handling of Antineoplastic Agents .
Med J Australia .
1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
• Jones , R . B , Frank R , Mass T . Safe Handling of Chemotherapeutic Agents : A Report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA Cancer Clin .
1983 ; 33 : 258 - 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists .
ASHP Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm .
1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs ( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines ) .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
1996 ; 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . us 451085 C Revised : September 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Fludarabine 2 mL Single Dose Vial Label Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg per 2 mL ( 25 mg per mL ) For intravenous use only .
Preservative free .
Cytotoxic agent .
2 mL Single Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Fludarabine 2 mL Single Dose Vial Carton Panel Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg per 2 mL ( 25 mg per mL ) For intravenous use only .
Preservative free .
Cytotoxic agent .
Refrigerate Rx only 2 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
