Rx only DESCRIPTION : Folic Acid Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of sodium folate ( prepared by the addition of sodium hydroxide to folic acid ) in Water for Injection intended for intramuscular ( IM ) , intravenous ( IV ) or subcutaneous ( SC ) use .
Folic Acid is a complex organic compound present in liver , yeast and other substances , which may be prepared synthetically .
It is a yellow or yellowish orange , odorless crystalline powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water , insoluble in alcohol , chloroform , ether ; readily dissolves in dilute solutions of alkali hydroxides and carbonates .
It is chemically designated as : L - Glutamic acid , N - [ 4 - [ [ ( 2 - amino - 1 - 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 6 - pteridinyl ) methyl ] amino ] benzoyl ] - , and has the following structural formula .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C 19 H 19 N 7 O 6 M . W . 441 . 40 Each mL contains : Sodium folate ( equivalent to 5 mg folic acid ) ; edetate disodium 2 mg ; benzyl alcohol 15 mg ( added as preservative ) ; Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment ( 8 . 0 to 11 . 0 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : In man , an exogenous source of folate is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and maintenance of normal erythropoiesis .
Folic acid , whether given by mouth or parenterally , stimulates specifically the production of red blood cells , white blood cells and platelets in persons suffering from certain megaloblastic anemias .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Folic Acid Injection , USP alone is effective in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to a deficiency of folic acid as may be seen in tropical or nontropical sprue , in anemias of nutritional origin , pregnancy , infancy or childhood .
WARNINGS : WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B 12 is deficient .
This product contains benzyl alcohol .
Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” in premature infants .
PRECAUTIONS : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Parenteral Administration : IM , IV and SC routes may be used if the disease is exceptionally severe or if gastrointestinal absorption may be , or is known to be , impaired .
Usual Therapeutic Dosage — In adults and children ( regardless of age ) : up to 1 mg daily . Resistant cases may require larger doses .
Maintenance Level : When clinical symptoms have subsided and the blood picture has become normal , a maintenance level should be used , i . e . , 0 . 1 mg for infants and up to 0 . 3 mg for children under four years of age , 0 . 4 mg for adults and children four or more years of age and 0 . 8 mg for pregnant and lactating women , per day , but never less than 0 . 1 mg per day .
Patient should be kept under close supervision and adjustment of the maintenance level made if relapse appears imminent .
In the presence of alcoholism , hemolytic anemia , anticonvulsant therapy or chronic infection , the maintenance level may need to be increased .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : Folic Acid Injection , USP 50 mg per 10 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) is available as : Product No .
NDC No .
18410 63323 - 184 - 10 50 mg per 10 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) , 10 mL Multiple Dose , in a flip - top vial packaged individually .
18411 63323 - 184 - 11 50 mg per 10 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) , 10 mL Multiple Dose , in a flip - top vial , 10 vials per tray .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Retain vial in carton until contents are used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . us 45842 G Revised : November 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Folic Acid 10 mL Vial Label Folic Acid Injection , USP 50 mg per 10 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For intramuscular , intravenous or subcutaneous use .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Folic Acid 10 mL Vial Carton Label Folic Acid Injection , USP 50 mg per 10 mL ( 5 mg per mL ) For intramuscular , intravenous or subcutaneous use .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
