IN SESAME OIL For intramuscular use only .
Rx only DESCRIPTION : Progesterone injection , a progestin , is a sterile solution of progesterone in a suitable vegetable oil available for intramuscular use .
Progesterone occurs as a white or creamy white , crystalline powder .
It is odorless and is stable in air .
Practically insoluble in water , it is soluble in alcohol , acetone , and dioxane and sparingly soluble in vegetable oils .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 21 H 30 O 2 M . W . 314 . 47 Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione Each mL contains : Progesterone 50 mg , benzyl alcohol 10 % as preservative in sesame oil q . s . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Transforms proliferative endometrium into secretory endometrium .
Inhibits ( at the usual dose range ) the secretion of pituitary gonadotropins , which in turn prevents follicular maturation and ovulation .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Absorption After intramuscular administration of 10 mg of progesterone in oil maximum plasma concentrations ( geometric mean of 7 ng / mL ) were reached within approximately 8 hours after injection and plasma concentrations remained above baseline for about 24 hours after injection .
Injection of 10 , 25 , and 50 mg resulted in geometric mean values for maximum plasma concentration ( C max ) of 7 , 28 , and 50 ng / mL , respectively .
Distribution Progesterone is extensively bound to plasma proteins , primarily albumin ( 50 to 54 % ) and cortisol - binding protein ( 43 to 48 % ) .
Metabolism Progesterone is metabolized primarily in the liver by reduction to pregnanediol , pregnanetriol and pregnanolone .
Subsequent conjugation results in the formation of glucuronide and sulfate metabolites .
The mean plasma metabolic clearance rate in cycling women is 2510 ± 135 ( SEM ) L / day .
Excretion The glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of pregnanediol and pregnanolone are excreted in the urine and bile .
Progesterone metabolites which are excreted in the bile may undergo enterohepatic recycling or may be excreted in the feces .
The pharmacokinetic data was determined in a small number of patients , limiting the precision in which population values may be estimated .
Special Populations Renal Insufficiency The safety and effectiveness in patients with renal insufficiency have not been established .
Since progesterone metabolites are excreted mainly by the kidneys , progesterone should be administered with caution and careful monitoring in this patient population ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency The safety and effectiveness in patients with hepatic insufficiency have not been established .
Since progesterone is metabolized by the liver , use in patients with liver dysfunction or disease is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug Interactions The metabolism of progesterone by human liver microsomes was inhibited by ketoconazole ( IC 50 < 01 μM ) .
Ketoconazole is a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 and these data suggest that ketoconazole or other known inhibitors of this enzyme may increase the bioavailability of progesterone .
The clinical relevance of the in vitro findings is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : This drug is indicated in amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology , such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : 1 .
Current or past history of thrombophlebitis , thromboembolic disorders , or cerebral apoplexy .
2 .
Liver dysfunction or disease .
3 .
Known or suspected malignancy of breast or genital organs .
4 .
Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding .
5 .
Missed abortion .
6 .
Known sensitivity to progesterone injection .
WARNINGS : The physician should be alert to the earliest manifestations of thrombotic disorders ( thrombophlebitis , cerebrovascular disorders , pulmonary embolism , and retinal thrombosis ) .
Should any of these occur or be suspected , the drug should be discontinued immediately .
Medication should be discontinued pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision , or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia or migraine .
If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions , medication should be withdrawn .
PRECAUTIONS : General The pretreatment physical examination should include special reference to breast and pelvic organs , as well as a Papanicolaou smear .
Because progestational drugs may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions which might be influenced by this condition , such as epilepsy , migraine , asthma , cardiac , or renal dysfunction , require careful observation .
In cases of breakthrough bleeding , as in all cases of irregular bleeding per vaginum , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind , and adequate diagnostic measures undertaken .
Patients who have a history of psychic depression should be carefully observed and the drug discontinued if the depression recurs to a serious degree .
The age of the patient constitutes no absolute limiting factor although treatment with progestin may mask the onset of the climacteric .
The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
There are possible risks which may be associated with the use of progestin treatment , including adverse effects on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism .
The dosage used may be important in minimizing these adverse effects .
A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in a small percentage of patients on estrogen - progestin combination treatment .
The mechanism of this decrease is obscure .
For this reason , diabetic patients should be carefully observed while receiving such therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term intramuscular administration of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( MPA ) has been shown to produce mammary tumors in beagle dogs .
There is no evidence of a carcinogenic effect associated with the oral administration of MPA to rats and mice .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate was not mutagenic in a battery of in vitro or in vivo genetic toxicity assays .
Progesterone at high doses is an antifertility drug and high doses would be expected to impair fertility until the cessation of treatment .
Geriatric Use The safety and effectiveness in geriatric patients ( over age 65 ) have not been established .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Nursing Mothers Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving progestational drugs .
The effect of this on the nursing infant has not been determined .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Breakthrough bleeding ; spotting ; change in menstrual flow ; amenorrhea ; edema ; change in weight ( increase or decrease ) ; changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions ; cholestatic jaundice ; breast tenderness and galactorrhea ; pain , irritation , and / or redness at the injection area ; skin sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria , pruritus , edema and generalized rash ; acne , alopecia and hirsutism ; rash ( allergic ) with and without pruritus ; anaphylactoid reactions ; mental depression ; pyrexia ; insomnia ; nausea ; and somnolence .
A statistically significant association has been demonstrated between use of estrogen - progestin combination drugs and pulmonary embolism and cerebral thrombosis and embolism .
For this reason patients on progestin therapy should be carefully observed .
There is also evidence suggestive of an association with neuro - ocular lesions , e . g . , retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis .
The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving estrogen - progestin combination drugs : Rise in blood pressure in susceptible individual , premenstrual syndrome , changes in libido , changes in appetite , cystitis - like syndrome , headache , nervousness , fatigue , backache , hirsutism , loss of scalp hair , erythema multiforme , erythema nodosum , hemorrhagic eruption , itching , and dizziness .
The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen - progestin combination drugs : increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests ; coagulation tests : increase in prothrombin factors VII , VIII , IX , and X ; metyrapone test ; pregnanediol determinations ; thyroid function : increase in PBI , and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T 3 uptake values .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Progesterone is administered by intramuscular injection .
It differs from other commonly used steroids in that it is irritating at the place of injection .
Amenorrhea Five to 10 mg are given for six to eight consecutive days .
If there has been sufficient ovarian activity to produce a proliferative endometrium , one can expect withdrawal bleeding 48 to 72 hours after the last injection .
This may be followed by spontaneous normal cycles .
Functional Uterine Bleeding Five to 10 mg are given daily for six doses .
Bleeding may be expected to cease within six days .
When estrogen is given as well , the administration of progesterone is begun after two weeks of estrogen therapy .
If menstrual flow begins during the course of injections of progesterone , they are discontinued .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED : Product No .
NDC No .
260110 63323 - 261 - 10 Progesterone Injection , USP , 500 mg per 10 mL , ( 50 mg per mL ) multiple dose vial , packaged individually .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROGESTERONE INJECTION , USP For Intramuscular Use Only FOR THE TREATMENT OF AMENORRHEA ( ABSENCE OF MENSES IN WOMEN WHO HAVE PREVIOUSLY HAD A MENSTRUAL PERIOD ) OR ABNORMAL UTERINE BLEEDING DUE TO HORMONAL IMBALANCE .
Please read this information carefully before you start to use Progesterone Injection and each time your prescription is renewed , in case anything has changed .
This leaflet does not take the place of discussions with your doctor .
If you still have any questions , ask your doctor or health - care provider .
About Progesterone Injection Progesterone Injection is a sterile injectable solution containing the natural female hormone called progesterone .
Progesterone Injection is indicated for the treatment of amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to progesterone deficiency .
Understanding the role of Progesterone Injection in the treatment of your menstrual irregularities .
Progesterone is one of the hormones essential for regular menstrual periods .
If your doctor has determined your body does not produce enough progesterone on its own , Progesterone Injection may be prescribed to provide the progesterone you need .
When you do not produce enough progesterone , menstrual irregularities can occur .
Progesterone Injection can provide you with the progesterone needed during a normal menstrual cycle .
Possible side effects of Progesterone Injection The following side effects have been reported with Progesterone Injection .
Consult your doctor if you experience any of the side effects mentioned below , or other side effects .
• breakthrough bleeding • spotting • changes in menstrual flow • amenorrhea • change in weight ( increase or decrease ) • pain , irritation , swelling , and / or redness at the injection area • general swelling • vaginal discharge • yellow discoloration of skin or white of eyes • breast tenderness , discharge from the nipple • skin reactions including rash , hives , itching , and swelling • acne • hair loss or growth of new hair • mental depression • fever • insomnia or sleepiness * • nausea • anaphylactoid ( life - threatening allergic ) reaction with symptoms that may include a sense of uneasiness or apprehension ; flushing ; fast , throbbing heartbeat ; itching ; hives ; difficult breathing ; swelling of the throat ; fainting ; nausea ; vomiting ; or convulsions .
* If you experience sleepiness , do not drive or operate machinery .
When you should not use Progesterone Injection • If you are allergic to progesterone , progesterone - like drugs , benzyl alcohol or sesame oil / seeds .
• If you have unusual vaginal bleeding which has not been evaluated by your doctor .
• If you have liver disease .
• If you have known or suspected cancer of the breast or genital organs .
• If you have a miscarriage and your physician suspects some tissue is still in the uterus .
• If you have or have had blood clots in the legs , lungs , eyes , or elsewhere .
Risks of Progesterone Injection • Abnormal blood clotting .
Blood clots have been reported with the use of estrogens and progestational drugs ( alone or in combination ) .
If blood clots do form in your bloodstream , they can cut off the blood supply to vital organs , causing serious problems .
These problems may include a stroke ( by cutting off blood to part of the brain ) , a heart attack ( by cutting off blood to part of the heart ) , a pulmonary embolus ( by cutting off blood to part of the lungs ) , or other problems .
Any of these conditions may cause death or serious long - term disability .
Call your doctor immediately if you suspect you have any of these conditions .
He or she may advise you to stop using this drug .
Precautions Be alert for unusual signs and symptoms .
If any of these warning signals ( or any other unusual symptoms ) happen while you are using Progesterone Injection , call your doctor immediately : • Abnormal bleeding from the vagina .
• Pains in the calves or chest , a sudden shortness of breath or coughing blood indicating possible clots in the legs , heart , or lungs .
• Severe headache or vomiting , dizziness , faintness , or changes in vision or speech , weakness or numbness of an arm or leg indicating possible clots in the brain or eye .
• Breast lumps , which could be associated with fibrocystic disorders , fibroadenoma , or breast cancer .
( Ask your doctor or health - care provider to show you how to examine your breasts monthly . )
• Yellowing of the skin and / or white of the eyes indicating possible liver problems .
How Progesterone Injection works Progesterone Injection is intended for administration by injection into a muscle mass .
Following injection , the medication is absorbed into the bloodstream .
Other information 1 .
Your doctor has prescribed this drug for you and you alone .
Do not give this drug to anyone else .
2 .
This medication was prescribed for your particular medical condition .
Do not use it for another condition .
3 .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
How to use Progesterone Injection Progesterone Injection will be administered to you by a health - care provider or your caregiver .
Your doctor will provide instructions regarding the dose and manner in which the medication should be injected .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions closely .
If you have any questions about product administration , ask your doctor or health - care provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . us 45918 F Revised : October 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Progesterone 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Label Progesterone Injection , USP 500 mg per 10 mL ( 50 mg per mL ) For intramuscular use only .
10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Progesterone 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Carton Panel Progesterone Injection , USP 500 mg per 10 mL ( 50 mg per mL ) For intramuscular use only .
Rx only 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
