Rx only DESCRIPTION Dimenhydrinate , an anti - nauseant / antiemetic , is the 8 - chlorotheophylline salt of diphenhydramine .
It contains not less than 53 % and not more than 55 . 5 % of diphenhydramine , and not less than 44 % and not more than 47 % of 8 - chlorotheophylline , calculated on the dried basis .
Chemically , it is 8 - chlorotheophylline compound with 2 ( diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethylethylamine ( 1 : 1 ) , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H21NO • C7H7ClN4O2M . W .
469 . 96 Dimenhydrinate Injection , USP contains a sterile solution of Dimenhydrinate 50 mg / mL ; Propylene Glycol 50 % ; Benzyl Alcohol 5 % as preservative ; and Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may have been used to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY While the precise mode of action of dimenhydrinate is not known , it has a depressant action on hyperstimulated labyrinthine function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dimenhydrinate Injection , USP is indicated for the prevention and treatment of nausea , vomiting , or vertigo of motion sickness .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Neonates and patients with a history of hypersensitivity to dimenhydrinate or its components ( diphenhydramine or 8 - chlorotheophylline ) should not be treated with dimenhydrinate .
Note : This product contains Benzyl Alcohol .
Benzyl Alcohol has been associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” in premature infants and infants of low birth weight .
WARNINGS Caution should be used when dimenhydrinate is given in conjunction with certain antibiotics that may cause ototoxicity , since dimenhydrinate is capable of masking ototoxic symptoms , and an irreversible state may be reached .
This drug may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may have an additive effect .
Therefore , patients should be warned accordingly .
Dimenhydrinate should be used with caution in patients having conditions which might be aggravated by anticholinergic therapy ( i . e . , prostatic hypertrophy , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , bladder neck obstruction , narrow - angle glaucoma , bronchial asthma , or cardiac arrhythmias ) .
The preparation should not be injected intra - arterially .
Pediatric Patients For infants and children especially , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
As in adults , antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in pediatric patients .
In the young child , particularly , they may produce excitation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Drowsiness may be experienced by some patients , especially with high dosage .
This effect frequently is not undesirable in conditions for which the drug is used .
Information for Patients Because of the potential for drowsiness , patients taking dimenhydrinate should be cautioned against operating automobiles or dangerous machinery ( see WARNINGS ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mutagenicity screening tests performed with dimenhydrinate , diphenhydramine , and 8 - chlorotheophylline produced positive results in the bacterial systems and negative results in the mammalian systems .
There are no human data that indicate dimenhydrinate is a carcinogen or mutagen or that it impairs fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 20 times the human dose , and in rabbits at doses up to 25 times the human dose ( on a mg / kg basis ) , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to dimenhydrinate .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , clinical studies in pregnant women have not indicated that dimenhydrinate increases the risk of abnormalities when administered in any trimester of pregnancy .
It would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote when the drug is used during pregnancy .
Nevertheless , because the studies in humans cannot rule out the possibility of harm , dimenhydrinate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery The safety of dimenhydrinate given during labor and delivery has not been established .
Reports have indicated dimenhydrinate may have an oxytocic effect .
Caution is advised when this effect is unwanted or in situations where it may prove detrimental .
Nursing Mothers Small amounts of dimenhydrinate are excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from dimenhydrinate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reaction to dimenhydrinate is drowsiness .
Dizziness may also occur .
Symptoms of dry mouth , nose and throat , blurred vision , difficult or painful urination , headache , anorexia , nervousness , restlessness or insomnia ( especially in pediatric patients ) , skin rash , thickening of bronchial secretions , tachycardia , epigastric distress , lassitude , excitation , and nausea have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Drowsiness is the usual clinical side effect .
Convulsions , coma , and respiratory depression may occur with massive overdosage .
No specific antidote is known .
If respiratory depression occurs , mechanically assisted respiration should be initiated and oxygen should be administered .
Convulsions should be treated with appropriate doses of diazepam .
Phenobarbital ( 5 to 6 mg / kg ) may be given to control convulsions in pediatric patients .
The oral LD 50 in mice and rats is 203 mg / kg and 1320 mg / kg , respectively .
The intraperitoneal LD 50 in mice is 149 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dimenhydrinate in the injectable form is indicated when the oral form is impractical .
Adults Nausea or vomiting may be expected to be controlled for approximately 4 hours with 50 mg , and prevented by a similar dose every 4 hours .
Its administration may be attended by some degree of drowsiness in some patients , and 100 mg every 4 hours may be given in conditions in which drowsiness is not objectionable or is even desirable .
For intramuscular administration , each milliliter ( 50 mg ) of solution is injected as needed , but for intravenous administration , each milliliter ( 50 mg ) of solution must be diluted in 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP and injected over a period of 2 minutes .
Pediatric For intramuscular administration , 1 . 25 mg / kg of body weight or 37 . 5 mg / m 2 of body surface area is administered four times daily .
The maximum dose should not exceed 300 mg daily ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED DimenhyDRINATE Injection , USP , 50 mg / mL is available in multiple dose amber vials , as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Strength Vial Size 361601 63323 - 366 - 01 50 mg / mL 1 mL in 2 mL vial , in packages of 25 .
361610 63323 - 366 - 10 50 mg / mL 10 mL in a 10 mL vial , packaged individually .
Protect from light .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Vial stoppers do not contain natural rubber latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 45981 B Revised : April 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Dimenhydrinate 1 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 366 - 01 361601 DimenhyDRINATE INJECTION , USP 50 mg / mL For IM Use For IV Use : See package insert .
Rx only 1 mL Multiple Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Dimenhydrinate 1 mL Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 366 - 01 361601 DimenhyDRINATE INJECTION , USP 50 mg / mL For IM Use * For IV Use Rx only 1 mL Multiple Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
