Butalbital , Aspirin and Caffeine Tablets , USP CIII Rx Only Rev . 01 / 09 DESCRIPTION : Each Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine tablet for oral administration contains : Butalbital , USP 50 mg Aspirin , USP 325 mg Caffeine , USP 40 mg Butalbital , 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutyl - barbituric acid , a white odorless crystalline powder ; is a short - to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aspirin , salicylic acid acetate , is a non - opiate analgesic , anti - inflammatory and antipyretic agent .
It occurs as a white , crystalline tabular or needle - like powder and is odorless or has a faint odor .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caffeine , 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine , is a central nervous system stimulant which occurs as a white powder or white glistening needles .
It also has a bitter taste .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Starch 1500 and Talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacologically , butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine combines the analgesic properties of aspirin with the anxiolytic and muscle relaxant properties of butalbital .
The clinical effectiveness of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine in tension headache has been established in double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - clinic trials .
A factorial design study compared butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine with each of its major components .
This study demonstrated that each component contributes to the efficacy of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine in the treatment of the target symptoms of tension headache ( headache pain , psychic tension , and muscle contraction in the head , neck , and shoulder region ) .
For each symptom and the symptom complex as a whole , butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine was shown to have significantly superior clinical effects to either component alone .
Pharmacokinetics : The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Aspirin : The systemic availability of aspirin after an oral dose is highly dependent on the dosage form , the presence of food , the gastric emptying time , gastric pH , antacids , buffering agents , and particle size .
These factors affect not necessarily the extent of absorption of total salicylates but more the stability of aspirin prior to absorption .
During the absorption process and after absorption , aspirin mainly hydrolyzed to salicylic acid and distributed to all body tissues and fluids , including fetal tissues , breast milk , and the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Highest concentrations are found in plasma , liver , renal cortex , heart , and lung .
In plasma , about 50 % - 80 % of the salicylic acid and its metabolites are loosely bound to plasma proteins .
The clearance of total salicylates is subject to saturable kinetics ; however , first - order elimination kinetics are still a good approximation for doses up to 650 mg .
The plasma half - life for aspirin is about 12 minutes and for salicylic acid and / or total salicylates is about 3 . 0 hours .
The elimination of therapeutic doses is through the kidneys either as salicylic acid or other biotransformation products .
The renal clearance is greatly augmented by an alkaline urine as is produced by concurrent administration of sodium bicarbonate or potassium citrate .
The biotransformation of aspirin occurs primarily in the hepatocytes .
The major metabolites are salicyluric acid ( 75 % ) , the phenolic and acyl glucuronides of salicylate ( 15 % ) , and gentisic and gentisuric acid ( 1 % ) .
The bioavailability of the aspirin component butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine is equivalent to that of a solution except for a slower rate of absorption .
A peak concentration of 8 . 80 mcg / mL was obtained at 40 minutes after a 650 mg dose .
( see OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information ) .
Butalbital : Butalbital is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is expected to distribute to most of the tissues in the body .
Barbiturates , in general , may appear in breast milk and readily cross the placental barrier .
They are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree and binding increases directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Elimination of butalbital is primarily via the kidney ( 59 % - 88 % of the dose ) as unchanged drug or metabolites .
The plasma half - life is about 35 hours .
Urinary excretion products included parent drug ( about 3 . 6 % of the dose ) , 5 - isobutyl - 5 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) barbituric acid ( about 24 % of the dose ) , 5 - allyl - 5 ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 4 . 8 % of the dose ) , products with the barbituric acid ring hydrolyzed with excretion of urea ( about 14 % of the dose ) , as well as unidentified materials .
Of the material excreted in the urine , 32 % was conjugated .
The bioavailability of the butalbital component of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine is equivalent to that of a solution except for a decrease in the rate of absorption .
A peak concentration of 2020 ng / mL is obtained at about 1 . 5 hours after a 100 mg dose .
The in vitro plasma protein binding of butalbital is 45 % over the concentration range of 0 . 5 to 20 mcg / mL .
This falls within the range of plasma protein binding ( 20 % to 45 % ) reported with other barbiturates such as phenobarbital , pentobarbital , and secobarbital sodium .
The plasma - to - blood concentration ratio was almost unity indicating that there is no preferential distribution of butalbital into either plasma or blood cells .
( see OVERDOSAGEfor toxicity information ) .
Caffeine : Like most xanthines , caffeine is rapidly absorbed and distributed in all body tissues and fluids , including the CNS , fetal tissues , and breast milk .
Caffeine is cleared rapidly through metabolism and excretion in the urine .
The plasma half - life is about 3 . 0 hours .
Hepatic biotransformation prior to excretion results in about equal amounts of 1 - methyl - xanthine and 1 - methyluric acid .
Of the 70 % of the dose that has been recovered in the urine , only 3 % was unchanged drug .
The bioavailability of the caffeine component for butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine is equivalent to that of a solution except for a slightly longer time to peak .
A peak concentration of 1660 ng / mL was obtained in less than an hour for an 80 mg dose ( see OVERDOSAGEfor toxicity information ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable .
Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to aspirin , caffeine , or barbiturates .
Patients with porphyria .
WARNINGS Drug Dependency : Prolonged use of barbiturates can produce drug dependence , characterized by psychic dependence , and less frequently , physical dependence and tolerance .
The abuse liability of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine is similar to that of other barbiturate - containing drug combinations .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing medication for patients with a known propensity for taking excessive quantities of drugs , which is not uncommon in patients with chronic tension headache .
Use in Ambulatory Patients : Butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
Central Nervous System depressant effects of butalbital may be additive with those of other CNS depressants .
Concurrent use with other sedative - hypnotics or alcohol should be avoided .
When such combined therapy is necessary , the dose of one or more agents may need to be reduced .
Use in Pregnancy : Adequate studies have not been performed in animals to determine whether this drug affects fertility in males or females , has teratogenic potential , or has other adverse effects on the fetus .
While there are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women , over twenty years of marketing and clinical experience does not include any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
Although there is no clearly defined risk , such experience cannot exclude the possibility of infrequent or subtle damage to the human fetus .
Butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine should be used in pregnant women only when clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : The effects of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine on infants of nursing mothers are not known .
Salicylates and barbiturates are excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers .
The serum levels in infants are believed to be insignificant with therapeutic doses .
PRECAUTIONS Salicylates should be used with extreme caution in the presence of peptic ulcer or coagulation abnormalities .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are drowsiness and dizziness .
Less frequent adverse reactions are lightheadedness and gastrointestinal disturbances including nausea , vomiting , and flatulence .
A single incidence of bone marrow suppression has been reported with the use of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine .
Several cases of dermatological reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic effects of acute overdosage of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine are attributable mainly to its barbiturate component , and , to a lesser extent , aspirin .
Because toxic effects of caffeine occur in very high dosages only , the possibility of significant caffeine toxicity from butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine overdosage is unlikely .
Symptoms attributable to acute barbiturate poisoning include drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; shock .
Symptoms attributable to acute aspirin poisoning include hyperpnea ; acid - base disturbances with development of metabolic acidosis ; vomiting and abdominal pain ; tinnitus ; hyperthermia ; hypoprothrombinemia ; restlessness ; delirium ; convulsions .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , and delirium ; tachycardia and extrasystoles .
Treatment consists primarily of management of barbiturate intoxication and the correction of the acid - base imbalance due to salicylism .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically or with emetics in the conscious patient .
Gastric lavage may be used if the pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes are present and if less than 4 hours have elapsed since ingestion .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and when necessary to provide assisted respiration .
Diuresis , alkalinization of the urine , and correction of electrolyte disturbances should be accomplished through administration of intravenous fluids such as 1 % sodium bicarbonate in 5 % dextrose in water .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
Correction of hypotension may require the administration of levartherenol bitartrate or phenylephrine hydrochloride by intravenous infusion .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or exchange transfusion may be lifesaving .
Hypoprothrombinemia should be treated with Vitamin K , intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two tablets every 4 hours .
Total daily dose should not exceed 6 tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED : Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets , USP 50 mg / 325 mg / 40 mg are White , Round , Unscored Compressed Tablets Imprinted “ West - ward 785 ” .
Bottles of 30 tablets Bottles of 50 tablets Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 500 tablets Bottles of 1000 tablets Unit Dose Boxes of 100 tablets Store at 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised .
January 2009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66336 - 0619 - XX [ MULTIMEDIA ]
