ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risK of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable • Flammable : keep away from fire or flame .
• After application , wait until product dries before approaching a source of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F Stop use and ask a doctor rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , seek immediate medical attention or call a poison control center .
Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , polyester - 7 , tocopherol , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * Oxybenzone and octinoxate free ** This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Proudly Distributed By : Harris Teeter , LLC Matthews , NC 28105 1 - 800 - 432 - 6111 or harristeeter . com 926 . 000 / 926 AA principal display panel Harris Teeter SPORT SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM , SPF 30 WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) Controlled continuous spray Wo n't run when you sweat * Compare to Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 30 ** Reef friendly BPA free NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
