1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection is indicated for : • • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism ; • • Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who , for other reasons , are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease ; • • Atrial fibrillation with embolization ; • • Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies ( disseminated intravascular coagulation ) ; • • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery ; • • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism .
• • Anticoagulant use in blood transfusions , extracorporeal circulation , and dialysis procedures .
Heparin Sodium Injection is an anticoagulant indicated for ( 1 ) • • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism • • Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who , for other reasons , are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease • • Atrial fibrillation with embolization • • Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies ( disseminated intravascular coagulation ) • • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery • • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism • • Use as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions , extracorporeal circulation , and dialysis procedures 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Adult Dosages : • • Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full - Dose Heparin † ( 2 . 3 ) Deep Subcutaneous ( Intrafat ) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5 , 000 units by intravenous injection , followed by 10 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution , subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 units of a concentrated solution 15 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5 , 000 to 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5 , 000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20 , 000 to 40 , 000 units / 24 hours in 1000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or in any compatible solution ) for infusion † Based on 150 lb ( 68 kg ) patient .
Adjust dose based on laboratory monitoring .
2 . 1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct heparin sodium injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “ catheter lock flush ” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Confirm the selection of the correct formulation and strength prior to administration of the drug .
To lessen this risk , the 1 mL vial includes a red cautionary label that extends above the main label .
Read the cautionary statement and confirm that you have selected the correct medication and strength .
Then locate the “ Tear Here ” point on the label , and remove this red cautionary label prior to removing the flip - off cap .
When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration , invert the container repeatedly to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution .
Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Use only if solution is clear and the seal is intact .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
Administer heparin sodium injection by intermittent intravenous injection , intravenous infusion , or deep subcutaneous ( intrafat , i . e . , above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer ) injection .
Do not administer heparin sodium injection by intramuscular injection because of the risk of hematoma at the injection site [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety Adjust the dosage of heparin sodium injection according to the patient ’ s coagulation test results .
Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) is 1 . 5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2 . 5 to 3 times the control value .
When initiating treatment with heparin sodium injection by continuous intravenous infusion , determine the coagulation status ( aPTT , INR , platelet count ) at baseline and continue to follow aPTT approximately every 4 hours and then at appropriate intervals thereafter .
When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection , perform coagulation tests before each injection during the initiation of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter .
After deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injections , tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn 4 to 6 hours after the injection .
Periodic platelet counts and hematocrits are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration .
2 . 3 Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full - Dose Heparin The dosing recommendations in Table 1 are based on clinical experience .
Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests , the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines : Table 1 : Recommended Adult Full - Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE [ based on 150 lb ( 68 kg ) patient ] Deep Subcutaneous ( Intrafat ) Injection Initial dose 5 , 000 units by intravenous injection , followed by 10 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution , subcutaneously A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 units of a concentrated solution 15 , 000 to 20 , 000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5 , 000 to 10 , 000 units , either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5 , 000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20 , 000 to 40 , 000 units / 24 hours in 1000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or in any compatible solution ) for infusion 2 . 4 Pediatric Use Do not use this product in neonates and infants .
Use preservative - free heparin sodium injection in neonates and infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients .
Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience .
In general , the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients : Initial Dose 75 to 100 units / kg ( IV bolus over 10 minutes ) Infants : 25 to 30 units / kg / hour ; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements ( average 28 units / kg / hour ) Maintenance Dose Children > 1 year of age : 18 to 20 units / kg / hour ; • Older children may require less heparin , similar to weight - adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain APTT of 60 to 85 seconds , assuming this reflects an anti - Factor Xa level of 0 . 35 to 0 . 70 2 . 5 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open - heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight .
Frequently , a dose of 300 units per kilogram is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes , or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes .
2 . 6 Low - Dose Prophylaxis of Postoperative Thromboembolism The most widely used dosage has been 5 , 000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5 , 000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 days or until the patient is fully ambulatory , whichever is longer .
Administer the heparin by deep subcutaneous ( intrafat , i . e . , above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer , arm , or thigh ) injection with a fine ( 25 to 26 - gauge ) needle to minimize tissue trauma .
2 . 7 Blood Transfusion Add 450 to 600 USP units of heparin sodium per 100 mL of whole blood to prevent coagulation .
Usually , 7 , 500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( or 75 , 000 USP units per 1000 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) and mixed ; from this sterile solution , 6 to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood .
2 . 8 Converting to Warfarin To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from heparin sodium injection to warfarin , continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR ( prothrombin time ) has reached a stable therapeutic range .
Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 9 Converting to Oral Anticoagulants other than Warfarin For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin , stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral anticoagulant ; or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium , start oral anticoagulant 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of heparin was to have been administered .
2 . 10 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers ’ operating directions carefully .
A dose of 25 to 30 units / kg followed by an infusion rate of 1 , 500 to 2 , 000 units / hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers ’ recommendations are not available .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Heparin Sodium Injection , USP is available as : • • Injection : 1 , 000 USP units per mL preserved with benzyl alcohol clear solution in 1 mL single - dose , 10 mL and 30 mL multi - dose vials • • Injection : 5 , 000 USP units per mL preserved with benzyl alcohol clear solution in 1 mL single - dose and 10 mL multi - dose vials • • Injection : 10 , 000 USP units per mL preserved with benzyl alcohol clear solution in 1 mL single - dose and 4 mL multi - dose vials Injection : Preserved with Benzyl Alcohol , single - dose vials Injection : Preserved with Benzyl Alcohol , multi - dose vials 1 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 1 , 000 USP units per mL 1 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 10 , 000 USP units per 10 mL • 30 , 000 USP units per 30 mL 5 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 5 , 000 USP units per mL 5 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 50 , 000 USP units per 10 mL 10 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 10 , 000 USP units per mL 10 , 000 USP units / mL Vial : • 40 , 000 USP units per 4 mL 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of heparin sodium injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions : • • History of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] ; • • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests , e . g . , the whole blood clotting time , partial thromboplastin time , etc . , cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( this contraindication refers to full - dose heparin ; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low - dose heparin ) ; • • An uncontrolled active bleeding state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation .
• • Severe thrombocytopenia ( 4 ) • • When suitable blood coagulation tests , e . g . , the whole blood clotting time , partial thromboplastin time , etc . , cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) • • An uncontrolled active bleeding state , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Fatal Medication Errors : Confirm choice of correct strength prior to administration ( 5 . 1 ) • • Hemorrhage : Fatal cases have occurred .
Use caution in conditions with increased risk of hemorrhage ( 5 . 2 ) • • HIT and HITTS : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue if indicative of HIT and HITTS ( 5 . 3 ) • • Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity : Do not use this product in neonates and infants .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Monitoring : Blood coagulation tests guide therapy for full - dose heparin .
• • Monitor platelet count and hematocrit in all patients receiving heparin ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Fatal Medication Errors Do not use heparin sodium injection as a “ catheter lock flush ” product .
Heparin sodium injection is supplied in vials containing various strengths of heparin , including vials that contain a highly concentrated solution of 10 , 000 units in 1 mL .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred in pediatric patients due to medication errors in which 1 mL heparin sodium injection vials were confused with 1 mL “ catheter lock flush ” vials .
Carefully examine all heparin sodium injection vials to confirm the correct vial choice prior to administration of the drug .
5 . 2 Hemorrhage Avoid using heparin in the presence of major bleeding , except when the benefits of heparin therapy outweigh the potential risks .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred .
Adrenal hemorrhage ( with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency ) , ovarian hemorrhage , and retroperitoneal hemorrhage have occurred during anticoagulant therapy with heparin [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
A higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
An unexplained fall in hematocrit , fall in blood pressure or any other unexplained symptom should lead to serious consideration of a hemorrhagic event .
Use heparin sodium with caution in disease states in which there is increased risk of hemorrhage , including : • • Cardiovascular - Subacute bacterial endocarditis , severe hypertension .
• • Surgical - During and immediately following ( a ) spinal tap or spinal anesthesia or ( b ) major surgery , especially involving the brain , spinal cord , or eye .
• • Hematologic - Conditions associated with increased bleeding tendencies , such as hemophilia , thrombocytopenia and some vascular purpuras .
• • Patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency receiving concurrent antithrombin III therapy - The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , reduce the heparin dose during concomitant treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) .
• • Gastrointestinal - Ulcerative lesions and continuous tube drainage of the stomach or small intestine .
• • Other - Menstruation , liver disease with impaired hemostasis .
5 . 3 Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis • Heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) is a serious antibody - mediated reaction .
HIT occurs in patients treated with heparin and is due to the development of antibodies to a platelet Factor 4 - heparin complex that induce in vivo platelet aggregation .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition referred to as heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( HITT ) .
Thrombotic events may also be the initial presentation for HITT .
These serious thromboembolic events include deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , cerebral vein thrombosis , limb ischemia , stroke , myocardial infarction , mesenteric thrombosis , renal arterial thrombosis , skin necrosis , gangrene of the extremities that may lead to amputation , and possibly death .
If the platelet count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT and HITT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant .
HIT or HITT can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy .
Patients presenting with thrombocytopenia or thrombosis after discontinuation of heparin sodium should be evaluated for HIT or HITT .
5 . 4 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions in Infants Due to Benzyl Alcohol Preservative Serious and fatal adverse reactions including “ gasping syndrome ” can occur in neonates and infants treated with benzyl alcohol - preserved drugs , including heparin sodium injection multiple - dose vials .
The “ gasping syndrome ” is characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , and gasping respirations .
When prescribing heparin sodium injection multiple - dose vials in infants consider the combined daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from all sources including heparin sodium injection multiple - dose vials ( contains 10 . 42 mg of benzyl alcohol per mL ) and other drugs containing benzyl alcohol .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia in patients receiving heparin has been reported at frequencies up to 30 % .
It can occur 2 to 20 days ( average 5 to 9 ) following the onset of heparin therapy .
Obtain platelet counts before and periodically during heparin therapy .
Monitor thrombocytopenia of any degree closely .
If the count falls below 100 , 000 / mm3 or if recurrent thrombosis develops , promptly discontinue heparin , evaluate for HIT and HITT , and , if necessary , administer an alternative anticoagulant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Coagulation Testing and Monitoring When using a full dose heparin regimen , adjust the heparin dose based on frequent blood coagulation tests .
If the coagulation test is unduly prolonged or if hemorrhage occurs , discontinue heparin promptly [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Periodic platelet counts and hematocrits are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy , regardless of the route of administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Heparin Resistance • Resistance to heparin is frequently encountered in fever , thrombosis , thrombophlebitis , infections with thrombosing tendencies , myocardial infarction , cancer , in postsurgical patients , and patients with antithrombin III deficiency .
Close monitoring of coagulation tests is recommended in these cases .
Adjustment of heparin doses based on anti - Factor Xa levels may be warranted .
5 . 8 Hypersensitivity Patients with documented hypersensitivity to heparin should be given the drug only in clearly life - threatening situations .
Because heparin sodium injection is derived from animal tissue , it should be used with caution in patients with a history of allergy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia and Thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions in Infants Due to Benzyl Alcohol Preservative [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Heparin Resistance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are hemorrhage , thrombocytopenia , HIT and HITTS , injection site irritation , general hypersensitivity reactions , and elevations of aminotransferase levels .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of heparin sodium injection .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Hemorrhage is the chief complication that may result from heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal or urinary tract bleeding during anticoagulant therapy may indicate the presence of an underlying occult lesion .
Bleeding can occur at any site but certain specific hemorrhagic complications may be difficult to detect : • • Adrenal hemorrhage , with resultant acute adrenal insufficiency , has occurred with heparin therapy , including fatal cases .
• • Ovarian ( corpus luteum ) hemorrhage developed in a number of women of reproductive age receiving short - or long - term heparin therapy .
• • Retroperitoneal hemorrhage • • HIT and HITT , including delayed onset cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Local Irritation – Local irritation , erythema , mild pain , hematoma or ulceration may follow deep subcutaneous ( intrafat ) injection of heparin sodium .
Because these complications are much more common after intramuscular use , the intramuscular route is not recommended .
• • Histamine - like reactions – Such reactions have been observed at the site of injections .
Necrosis of the skin has been reported at the site of subcutaneous injection of heparin , occasionally requiring skin grafting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity – Generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , with chills , fever and urticaria as the most usual manifestations , and asthma , rhinitis , lacrimation , headache , nausea and vomiting , and anaphylactoid reactions , including shock , occurring less frequently .
Itching and burning , especially on the plantar side of the feet , may occur .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Elevations of aminotransferases – Significant elevations of aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels have occurred in patients who have received heparin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• • Miscellaneous - Osteoporosis following long - term administration of high doses of heparin , cutaneous necrosis after systemic administration , suppression of aldosterone synthesis , delayed transient alopecia , priapism , and rebound hyperlipemia on discontinuation of heparin sodium have also been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation : May induce bleeding ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one - stage prothrombin time .
Therefore , when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium , a period of at least 5 hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn , if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained .
7 . 2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as NSAIDS ( including salicylic acid , ibuprofen , indomethacin , and celecoxib ) , dextran , phenylbutazone , thienopyridines , dipyridamole , hydroxychloroquine , glycoprotein IIb / IIIa antagonists ( including abciximab , eptifibatide , and tirofiban ) , and others that interfere with platelet - aggregation reactions ( the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients ) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , a reduction in the dose of antiplatelet agent or heparin is recommended .
7 . 3 Other Interactions Digitalis , tetracyclines , nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium .
Intravenous nitroglycerin administered to heparinized patients may result in a decrease of the partial thromboplastin time with subsequent rebound effect upon discontinuation of nitroglycerin .
Careful monitoring of partial thromboplastin time and adjustment of heparin dosage are recommended during coadministration of heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin .
Antithrombin III ( human ) – The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency .
To reduce the risk of bleeding , a reduced dosage of heparin is recommended during treatment with antithrombin III ( human ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : Preservative - free formulation recommended .
Limited human data in pregnant women .
( 8 . 1 ) • • Lactation : Advise females not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • • Pediatric Use : Use preservative - free formulation in neonates and infants .
( 8 . 4 ) • • Geriatric Use : A higher incidence of bleeding reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on heparin sodium injection use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
In published reports , heparin exposure during pregnancy did not show evidence of an increased risk of adverse maternal or fetal outcomes in humans .
No teratogenicity , but early embryo - fetal death was observed in animal reproduction studies with administration of heparin sodium to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses approximately 10 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 45 , 000 units / day [ see Data ] .
Consider the benefits and risks of heparin sodium injection for the mother and possible risks to the fetus when prescribing heparin sodium injection to a pregnant woman .
If available , preservative - free heparin sodium injection is recommended when heparin therapy is needed during pregnancy .
There are no known adverse outcomes associated with fetal exposure to the preservative benzyl alcohol through maternal drug administration ; however , the preservative benzyl alcohol can cause serious adverse events and death when administered intravenously to neonates and infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data The maternal and fetal outcomes associated with uses of heparin via various dosing methods and administration routes during pregnancy have been investigated in numerous studies .
These studies generally reported normal deliveries with no maternal or fetal bleeding and no other complications .
Animal Data In a published study conducted in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received heparin intravenously during organogenesis at a dose of 10 , 000 units / kg / day , approximately 10 times the maximum human daily dose based on body weight .
The number of early resorptions increased in both species .
There was no evidence of teratogenic effects .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary If available , preservative - free heparin sodium injection is recommended when heparin therapy is needed during lactation .
Benzyl alcohol present in maternal serum is likely to cross into human milk and may be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
There is no information regarding the presence of heparin sodium injection in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Due to its large molecular weight , heparin is not likely to be excreted in human milk , and any heparin in milk would not be orally absorbed by a nursing infant .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for heparin sodium injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from heparin sodium injection or from the underlying maternal condition [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients .
Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Carefully examine all heparin sodium injection vials to confirm choice of the correct strength prior to administration of the drug .
Pediatric patients , including neonates , have died as a result of medication errors in which heparin sodium injection vials have been confused with “ catheter lock flush ” vials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity Use preservative - free heparin sodium injection in neonates and infants .
Serious adverse reactions including fatal reactions and the “ gasping syndrome ” occurred in premature neonates and infants in the neonatal intensive care unit who received drugs containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
In these cases , benzyl alcohol dosages of 99 to 234 mg / kg / day produced high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites in the blood and urine ( blood levels of benzyl alcohol were 0 . 61 to 1 . 378 mmol / L ) .
Additional adverse reactions included gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Preterm , low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop these reactions because they may be less able to metabolize benzyl alcohol .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There are limited adequate and well - controlled studies in patients 65 years and older , however , a higher incidence of bleeding has been reported in patients , particularly women , over 60 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Patients over 60 years of age may require lower doses of heparin .
Lower doses of heparin may be indicated in these patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Bleeding is the chief sign of heparin overdosage .
Neutralization of Heparin Effect When clinical circumstances ( bleeding ) require reversal of the heparin effect , protamine sulfate ( 1 % solution ) by slow infusion will neutralize heparin sodium .
No more than 50 mg should be administered , very slowly , in any 10 - minute period .
Each mg of protamine sulfate neutralizes approximately 100 USP heparin units .
The amount of protamine required decreases over time as heparin is metabolized .
Although the metabolism of heparin is complex , it may , for the purpose of choosing a protamine dose , be assumed to have a half - life of about 1 / 2 hour after intravenous injection .
Because fatal reactions often resembling anaphylaxis have been reported with protamine , it should be given only when resuscitation techniques and treatment of anaphylactoid shock are readily available .
For additional information consult the labeling of protamine sulfate injection .
11 DESCRIPTION Heparin is a heterogeneous group of straight - chain anionic mucopolysaccharides , called glycosaminoglycans , possessing anticoagulant properties .
It is composed of polymers of alternating derivations of α - D - glucosamido ( N - sulfated O - sulfated O - sulfated or N - acetylated ) and O - sulfated uronic acid ( α - L - iduronic acid or β - D - glucoronic acid ) .
Structure of heparin sodium , USP ( representative subunits ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Heparin Sodium Injection , USP is a sterile solution of heparin sodium , USP derived from porcine intestinal mucosa , standardized for anticoagulant activity .
It is to be administered by intravenous or deep subcutaneous routes .
The potency is determined by a biological assay using a USP reference standard based on units of heparin activity per milligram .
Heparin Sodium Injection , USP preserved with benzyl alcohol is available in the following concentrations / mL : Heparin Sodium Sodium Chloride Benzyl Alcohol 1 , 000 USP units 8 . 6 mg 10 . 4 mg 5 , 000 USP units 7 mg 10 . 4 mg 10 , 000 USP units 5 mg 10 . 4 mg pH 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 ; sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid added , if needed , for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Heparin interacts with the naturally occurring plasma protein , Antithrombin III , to induce a conformational change , which markedly enhances the serine protease activity of Antithrombin III , thereby inhibiting the activated coagulation factors involved in the clotting sequence , particularly Xa and IIa .
Small amounts of heparin inhibit Factor Xa , and larger amounts inhibit thrombin ( Factor IIa ) .
Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor .
Heparin does not have fibrinolytic activity ; therefore , it will not lyse existing clots .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Various times ( activated clotting time , activated partial thromboplastin time , prothrombin time , whole blood clotting time ) are prolonged by full therapeutic doses of heparin ; in most cases , they are not measurably affected by low doses of heparin .
The bleeding time is usually unaffected by heparin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Heparin is not absorbed through the gastrointestinal tract and therefore administered via parenteral route .
Peak plasma concentration and the onset of action are achieved immediately after intravenous administration .
Distribution Heparin is highly bound to antithrombin , fibrinogens , globulins , serum proteases and lipoproteins .
The volume of distribution is 0 . 07 L / kg .
Elimination Metabolism Heparin does not undergo enzymatic degradation .
Excretion Heparin is mainly cleared from the circulation by liver and reticuloendothelial cells mediated uptake into extravascular space .
Heparin undergoes biphasic clearance , a ) rapid saturable clearance ( zero order process due to binding to proteins , endothelial cells and macrophage ) and b ) slower first order elimination .
The plasma half - life is dose - dependent and it ranges from 0 . 5 to 2 h . Specific Populations Geriatric patients Patients over 60 years of age , following similar doses of heparin , may have higher plasma levels of heparin and longer activated partial thromboplastin times ( APTTs ) compared with patients under 60 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential of heparin .
Also , no reproduction studies in animals have been performed concerning mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Heparin Sodium Injection , USP preserved with benzyl alcohol is available in the following strengths and in single - dose vials as a package of 25 ’ s carton : DESCRIPTION NDC 1 , 000 USP units per mL ( 1 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 1 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 372 - 12 • 25 vials : 1 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 372 - 99 5 , 000 USP units per mL ( 1 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 5 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 374 - 12 • 25 vials : 5 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 374 - 99 10 , 000 USP units per mL ( 1 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 10 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 602 - 02 • 25 vials : 10 , 000 USP units per mL , single - dose * 67457 - 602 - 99 * Discard unused portion Heparin Sodium Injection , USP preserved with benzyl alcohol is available in the following strengths and in multiple - dose vials as a package of 25 ’ s carton : DESCRIPTION NDC 1 , 000 USP units per mL ( 10 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 10 , 000 USP units per 10 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 385 - 10 • 25 vials : 10 , 000 USP units per 10 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 385 - 99 1 , 000 USP units per mL ( 30 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 30 , 000 USP units per 30 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 384 - 31 • 25 vials : 30 , 000 USP units per 30 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 384 - 99 5 , 000 USP units per mL ( 10 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 50 , 000 USP units per 10 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 383 - 10 • 25 vials : 50 , 000 USP units per 10 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 383 - 99 10 , 000 USP units per mL ( 4 mL - fill ) • 1 vial : 40 , 000 USP units per 4 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 603 - 05 • 25 vials : 40 , 000 USP units per 4 mL , multi - dose 67457 - 603 - 99 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hemorrhage Inform patients that it may take them longer than usual to stop bleeding , that they may bruise and / or bleed more easily when they are treated with heparin , and that they should report any unusual bleeding or bruising to their physician .
Hemorrhage can occur at virtually any site in patients receiving heparin .
Fatal hemorrhages have occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Prior to Surgery Advise patients to inform physicians and dentists that they are receiving heparin before any surgery is scheduled [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia Inform patients of the risk of heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) .
HIT may progress to the development of venous and arterial thromboses , a condition known as heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis ( HITT ) .
HIT and HITT can occur up to several weeks after the discontinuation of heparin therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that generalized hypersensitivity reactions have been reported .
Necrosis of the skin has been reported at the site of subcutaneous injection of heparin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Other Medications Because of the risk of hemorrhage , advise patients to inform their physicians and dentists of all medications they are taking , including non - prescription medications , and before starting any new medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited Bangalore , India JUNE 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 372 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 1 , 000 USP units per mL Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 385 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 10 , 000 USP units per 10 mL ( 1 , 000 USP units per mL ) Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 10 mL Multi - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 384 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 30 , 000 USP units per 30 mL ( 1 , 000 USP units per mL ) Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 30 mL Multi - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 374 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 5 , 000 USP units per mL Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 383 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 50 , 000 USP units per 10 mL ( 5 , 000 USP units per mL ) Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 10 mL Multi - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 602 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 10 , 000 USP units per mL Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 67457 - 603 - 99 HEPARIN Sodium Injection , USP 40 , 000 USP units per 4 mL ( 10 , 000 USP units per mL ) Rx only For Intravenous or Subcutaneous Use NOT for LOCK FLUSH Mylan ( Derived from Porcine Intestinal Mucosa ) 25 x 4 mL Multi - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
