Rx only DESCRIPTION Baclofen USP is a muscle relaxant and antispastic , available as 10 mg and 20 mg tablets for oral administration .
Its chemical name is 4 - amino - 3 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - butanoic acid .
Baclofen USP is a white to off - white , odorless or practically odorless crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water , very slightly soluble in methanol , and insoluble in chloroform .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baclofen Tablets , USP 10 mg and 20 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The precise mechanism of action of baclofen is not fully known .
Baclofen is capable of inhibiting both monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes at the spinal level , possibly by hyperpolarization of afferent terminals , although actions at supraspinal sites may also occur and contribute to its clinical effect .
Although baclofen is an analog of the putative inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma - amino - butyric acid ( GABA ) , there is no conclusive evidence that actions on GABA systems are involved in the production of its clinical effects .
In studies with animals , baclofen has been shown to have general CNS depressant properties as indicated by the production of sedation with tolerance , somnolence , ataxia , and respiratory and cardiovascular depression .
Baclofen is rapidly and extensively absorbed and eliminated .
Absorption may be dose - dependent , being reduced with increasing doses .
Baclofen is excreted primarily by the kidney in unchanged form and there is relatively large intersubject variation in absorption and / or elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Baclofen is useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis , particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain , clonus , and muscular rigidity .
Patients should have reversible spasticity so that baclofen treatment will aid in restoring residual function .
Baclofen may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases .
Baclofen is not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders .
The efficacy of baclofen in stroke , cerebral palsy , and Parkinson ' s disease has not been established and , therefore , it is not recommended for these conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to baclofen .
WARNINGS • Abrupt Drug Withdrawal : Hallucinations and seizures have occurred on abrupt withdrawal of baclofen .
Therefore , except for serious adverse reactions , the dose should be reduced slowly when the drug is discontinued .
• Impaired Renal Function : Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged through the kidneys , it should be given with caution , and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage .
• Stroke : Baclofen has not significantly benefitted patients with stroke .
These patients have also shown poor tolerability to the drug .
• Pregnancy : Baclofen has been shown to increase the incidence of omphaloceles ( ventral hernias ) in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum dose recommended for human use , at a dose which caused significant reductions in food intake and weight gain in dams .
This abnormality was not seen in mice or rabbits .
There was also an increased incidence of incomplete sternebral ossification in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum recommended human dose , and an increased incidence of unossified phalangeal nuclei of forelimbs and hindlimbs in fetuses of rabbits given approximately 7 times the maximum recommended human dose .
In mice , no teratogenic effects were observed , although reductions in mean fetal weight with consequent delays in skeletal ossification were present when dams were given 17 or 34 times the human daily dose .
There are no studies in pregnant women .
Baclofen should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit clearly justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
PRECAUTIONS Safe use of baclofen in children under age 12 has not been established , and it is , therefore , not recommended for use in children .
Because of the possibility of sedation , patients should be cautioned regarding the operation of automobiles or other dangerous machinery , and activities made hazardous by decreased alertness .
Patients should also be cautioned that the central nervous system effects of baclofen may be additive to those of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Baclofen should be used with caution where spasticity is utilized to sustain upright posture and balance in locomotion or whenever spasticity is utilized to obtain increased function .
In patients with epilepsy , the clinical state and electroencephalogram should be monitored at regular intervals , since deterioration in seizure control and EEG have been reported occasionally in patients taking baclofen .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
A dose - related increase in incidence of ovarian cysts and a less marked increase in enlarged and / or hemorrhagic adrenal glands was observed in female rats treated chronically with baclofen .
Ovarian cysts have been found by palpation in about 4 % of the multiple sclerosis patients that were treated with baclofen for up to one year .
In most cases these cysts disappeared spontaneously while patients continued to receive the drug .
Ovarian cysts are estimated to occur spontaneously in approximately 1 % to 5 % of the normal female population .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common is transient drowsiness ( 10 – 63 % ) .
In one controlled study of 175 patients , transient drowsiness was observed in 63 % of those receiving baclofen compared to 36 % of those in the placebo group .
Other common adverse reactions are dizziness ( 5 – 15 % ) , weakness ( 5 – 15 % ) and fatigue ( 2 – 4 % ) .
Others reported : Neuropsychiatric : Confusion ( 1 – 11 % ) , headache ( 4 – 8 % ) , insomnia ( 2 – 7 % ) ; and , rarely , euphoria , excitement , depression , hallucinations , paresthesia , muscle pain , tinnitus , slurred speech , coordination disorder , tremor , rigidity , dystonia , ataxia , blurred vision , nystagmus , strabismus , miosis , mydriasis , diplopia , dysarthria , epileptic seizure .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension ( 0 – 9 % ) .
Rare instances of dyspnea , palpitation , chest pain , syncope .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea ( 4 – 12 % ) , constipation ( 2 – 6 % ) ; and , rarely , dry mouth , anorexia , taste disorder , abdominal pain , vomiting , diarrhea , and positive test for occult blood in stool .
Genitourinary : Urinary frequency ( 2 – 6 % ) ; and , rarely , enuresis , urinary retention , dysuria , impotence , inability to ejaculate , nocturia , hematuria .
Other : Instances of rash , pruritus , ankle edema , excessive perspiration , weight gain , nasal congestion .
Some of the CNS and genitourinary symptoms may be related to the underlying disease rather than to drug therapy .
The following laboratory tests have been found to be abnormal in a few patients receiving baclofen : increased SGOT , elevated alkaline phosphatase , and elevation of blood sugar .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms : Vomiting , muscular hypotonia , drowsiness , accommodation disorders , coma , respiratory depression and seizures .
Treatment : In the alert patient , empty the stomach promptly by induced emesis followed by lavage .
In the obtunded patient , secure the airway with a cuffed endotracheal tube before beginning lavage ( do not induce emesis ) .
Maintain adequate respiratory exchange , do not use respiratory stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The determination of optimal dosage requires individual titration .
Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved ( usually between 40 – 80 mg daily ) .
The following dosage titration schedule is suggested : 5 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 10 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 15 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 20 mg t . i . d . for 3 days Thereafter additional increases may be necessary but the total daily dose should not exceed a maximum of 80 mg daily ( 20 mg q . i . d . ) .
The lowest dose compatible with an optimal response is recommended .
If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period , patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug ( see WARNINGS Abrupt Drug Withdrawal ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Baclofen Tablets , USP 10 mg are off - white , scored , oval - shaped tablets debossed “ 2265 ” on one side and debossed “ V ” on the reverse side ; and supplied as follows : • Bottles of 270 : NDC 66336 - 0834 - 27 • Bottles of 180 : NDC 66336 - 0834 - 62 • Bottles of 120 : NDC 66336 - 0834 - 94 Baclofen Tablets , USP 20 mg are off - white , scored , capsule - shaped tablets debossed “ 2266 ” on one side and debossed “ V ” on the reverse side ; and are supplied as follows : • Bottles of 120 : NDC 6633 - 0486 - 94 Dispense in a tight container with child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
This product was Manufactured for : QUALITEST PHARMACEUTICALS Huntsville , AL 35811 8181162 R10 / 12 - R4 And Relabeled By : Dispensing Solutions Inc . 3000 West Warner Ave Santa Ana , CA 92704 United States PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 66336 - 0834 - XX NDC 66336 - 0834 - 27 NDC 66336 - 0834 - 62 NDC 66336 - 0834 - 94 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPALY PANEL NDC 66336 - 0486 - XX NDC66336 - 0486 - 94 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
