DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP is a solution containing hydrocortisone ( 1 % ) and acetic acid ( 2 % ) , in a propylene glycol vehicle containing benzethonium chloride ( 0 . 02 % ) , citric acid ( 0 . 05 % ) , propylene glycol diacetate ( 3 % ) and sodium acetate ( 0 . 015 % ) .
The empirical formulas for acetic acid and hydrocortisone are CH3COOH , and C21H30O5 , with a molecular weight of 60 . 05 and 362 . 46 , respectively .
The structural formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid is available as a nonaqueous otic solution buffered at pH 3 for use in the external ear canal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acetic acid is antibacterial and antifungal ; hydrocortisone is antiinflammatory , antiallergic and antipruritic ; propylene glycol is hydrophilic and provides a low surface tension ; benzethonium chloride is a surface active agent that promotes contact of the solution with tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of superficial infections of the external auditory canal caused by organisms susceptible to the action of the antimicrobial , complicated by inflammation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid or any of the ingredients ; herpes simplex , vaccinia and varicella .
Perforated tympanic membrane is considered a contraindication to the use of any medication in the external ear canal .
WARNINGS Discontinue promptly if sensitization or irritation occurs .
PRECAUTIONS Transient stinging or burning may be noted occasionally when the solution is first instilled into the acutely inflamed ear .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Stinging or burning may be noted occasionally ; local irritation has occurred very rarely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully remove all cerumen and debris to allow Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid to contact infected surfaces directly .
To promote continuous contact , insert a wick of cotton saturated with Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid into the ear canal ; the wick may also be saturated after insertion .
Instruct the patient to keep the wick in for at least 24 hours and to keep it moist by adding 3 to 5 drops of Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid every 4 to 6 hours .
The wick may be removed after 24 hours but the patient should continue to instill 5 drops of Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid 3 or 4 times daily thereafter , for as long as indicated .
In pediatric patients , 3 to 4 drops may be sufficient due to the smaller capacity of the ear canal .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP , containing hydrocortisone ( 1 % ) and acetic acid ( 2 % ) , is available in 10 mL , measured - drop , safety - tip plastic bottles ( NDC 50383 - 901 - 10 ) .
STORAGE Store at room temperature , 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Rx only Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 Rev . 901 : 04 07 / 22 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN NDC 50383 - 901 - 10 Hydrocortisone and Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP 10 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
