1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Oxycodone hydrochloride capsule is an opioid analgesic , indicated for the management of moderate to severe acute and chronic pain where use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of moderate to severe acute and chronic pain where the use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate .
( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Selection of patients for treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride should be governed by the same principles that apply to the use of similar opioid analgesics .
Individualize treatment in every case , using non - opioid analgesics , opioids on an as needed basis and / or combination products , and chronic opioid therapy in a progressive plan of pain management such as outlined by the World Health Organization , the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality , and the American Pain Society .
Oxycodone hydrochloride capsule , 5 mg : 5 mg to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Individualization of Dosage As with any opioid drug product , adjust the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient ' s prior analgesic treatment experience .
In the selection of the initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride , give attention to the following : • the total daily dose , potency and specific characteristics of the opioid the patient has been taking previously ; • the reliability of the relative potency estimate used to calculate the equivalent oxycodone hydrochloride dose needed ; • the patient ' s degree of opioid tolerance ; • the general condition and medical status of the patient ; • concurrent medications ; • the type and severity of the patient ' s pain ; • risk factors for abuse , addiction or diversion , including a prior history of abuse , addiction or diversion .
The following dosing recommendations , therefore , can only be considered suggested approaches to what is actually a series of clinical decisions over time in the management of the pain of each individual patient .
Continual re - evaluation of the patient receiving oxycodone hydrochloride is important , with special attention to the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of side effects associated with therapy .
During chronic therapy , especially for non - cancer - related pain , periodically re - assess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics .
During periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration , frequent contact is recommended between physician , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family .
2 . 2 Initiation of Therapy in Opioid - Naive Patients Start patients who have not been receiving opioid analgesics on oxycodone hydrochloride in the following dosing range using oxycodone hydrochloride capsules , 5 mg strength : Oxycodone hydrochloride capsules : 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain .
Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient ' s response to their initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride .
Adjust the dose to an acceptable level of analgesia taking into account the improvement in pain intensity and the tolerability of the oxycodone by the patient .
2 . 3 Conversion to Oral Oxycodone Hydrochloride There is inter - patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations .
Therefore , a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dose of oxycodone hydrochloride .
It is better to underestimate a patient ' s 24 - hour oral oxycodone hydrochloride dose and make available rescue medication than to overestimate the 24 - hour oral oxycodone hydrochloride dose and manage an adverse experience of overdose .
Consider the following general points regarding opioid conversions .
Conversion From other Non - Oxycodone Opioids to Oral Oxycodone Hydrochloride .
In converting patients from other opioids to oxycodone hydrochloride , close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient ' s response to oxycodone hydrochloride is imperative .
Physicians and other healthcare professionals are advised to refer to published relative potency information , keeping in mind that conversion ratios are only approximate .
Conversion From Controlled - Release Oral Oxycodone to Oral Oxycodone Hydrochloride .
The relative bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride capsule compared to controlled - release oxycodone is unknown .
The extended duration of release of oxycodone hydrochloride from controlled - release tablets results in reduced maximum and increased minimum plasma oxycodone hydrochloride concentrations than with shorter acting oxycodone hydrochloride products .
Conversion from controlled - release tablets could lead to excessive sedation at peak serum levels .
Therefore , dose adjustment with close observation is necessary .
Conversion From Oral Oxycodone Hydrochloride to Controlled - Release Oral Oxycodone .
The relative bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride capsules compared to controlled - release oxycodone is unknown , so conversion to controlled - release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation .
2 . 4 Maintenance of Therapy Continual re - evaluation of the patient receiving oxycodone hydrochloride is important , with special attention to the maintenance of pain management and the relative incidence of side effects associated with therapy .
If the level of pain increases , effort should be made to identify the source of increased pain , while adjusting the dose as described above to decrease the level of pain .
During chronic therapy , especially for non - cancer - related pain ( or pain associated with other terminal illnesses ) , periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics .
2 . 5 Cessation of Therapy When a patient no longer requires therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride gradually taper the dose to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Each oxycodone hydrochloride capsule is a size 2 hard gelatin capsule with yellow opaque cap and white opaque body imprinted with “ NL 950 ” on the cap and “ 5 mg ” on the body with black ink , filled with white to off white powder .
Oxycodone hydrochloride capsules are available in one strength .
Each hard gelatin capsule contains 5 mg oxycodone hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with respiratory depression in the absence of resuscitative equipment .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is contraindicated in any patient who has or is suspected of having paralytic ileus .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to oxycodone , oxycodone salts , or any components of the product .
• Respiratory depression in the absence of resuscitative equipment .
( 4 ) • Paralytic ileus .
( 4 ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia .
( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to oxycodone .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Respiratory depression : Increased risk in elderly , debilitated patients , those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia , hypercapnia , or upper airway obstruction .
( 5 . 1 ) • Misuse , Abuse and Diversion : Oxycodone hydrochloride is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids .
( 5 . 2 ) • CNS effects : Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs .
( 5 . 3 ) • Elevation of intracranial pressure : May be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypotensive effect : Increased risk with compromised ability to maintain blood pressure .
( 5 . 5 ) • Prolonged gastric obstruction : In patients with gastrointestinal obstruction , especially paralytic ileus .
( 5 . 6 ) • Sphincter of Oddi spasm and diminished biliary / pancreatic secretions .
Increased risk with biliary tract disease .
( 5 . 7 ) • Special Risk Groups : Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment , Addison ’ s disease , hypothyroidism , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture , elderly , CNS depression , toxic psychosis , acute alcoholism and delirium tremens , may aggravate or induce seizures .
( 5 . 8 ) • Impaired mental / physical abilities : Caution must be used with potentially hazardous activities .
( 5 . 9 ) • Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of oxycodone hydrochloride .
Respiratory depression occurs more frequently in elderly or debilitated patients and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia , hypercapnia , or upper airway obstruction , in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation .
Use oxycodone hydrochloride with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale and in patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve ( e . g . , severe kyphoscoliosis ) , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or preexisting respiratory depression .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone hydrochloride may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea .
Consider alternative non - opioid analgesics , and use oxycodone hydrochloride only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients .
5 . 2 Misuse , Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Oxycodone hydrochloride is an opioid agonist and a Schedule II controlled substance .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders .
Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty .
Oxycodone hydrochloride can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing oxycodone hydrochloride in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse , abuse , or diversion .
Oxycodone hydrochloride may be abused by crushing , chewing , snorting or injecting the product .
These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death .
[ See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9 ) ] Concerns about abuse , addiction , and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
5 . 3 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Oxycodone hydrochloride may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression because respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , coma or death may result .
5 . 4 Use In Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury , intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure , the possible respiratory depressant effects of oxycodone hydrochloride and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure ( resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention ) may be markedly exaggerated .
Furthermore , oxycodone hydrochloride can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness , which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries .
5 . 5 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone hydrochloride may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a depleted blood volume or concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics .
Oxycodone hydrochloride may produce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients .
Administer oxycodone hydrochloride with caution to patients in circulatory shock , as vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
5 . 6 Gastrointestinal Effects Do not administer oxycodone hydrochloride to patients with gastrointestinal obstruction , especially paralytic ileus because oxycodone hydrochloride diminishes propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and may prolong the obstruction .
The administration of oxycodone hydrochloride may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition .
5 . 7 Use In Pancreatic / Biliary Tract Disease Use oxycodone hydrochloride with caution in patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis , as oxycodone hydrochloride may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions .
5 . 8 Special Risk Groups Use oxycodone hydrochloride with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment , Addison ' s disease , hypothyroidism , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture , and in elderly or debilitated patients .
[ See USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 5 ) ] Exercise caution in the administration of oxycodone hydrochloride to patients with CNS depression , toxic psychosis , acute alcoholism and delirium tremens .
All opioids may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders , and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings .
Keep oxycodone hydrochloride capsules out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek emergency medical help immediately .
5 . 9 Driving and Operating Machinery Caution patients that oxycodone hydrochloride could impair the mental and / or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Caution patients about the potential combined effects of oxycodone hydrochloride with other CNS depressants , including other opioids , phenothiazines , sedative / hypnotics and alcohol .
[ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] 5 . 10 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone , drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations .
The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inhibitors would be an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and possibly increased or prolonged opioid effects .
The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inducers would be a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations , lack of efficacy or , possibly , development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone .
If co - administration is necessary , caution is advised when initiating oxycodone treatment in patients currently taking , or discontinuing , CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers .
Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include : respiratory depression , respiratory arrest , circulatory depression , cardiac arrest , hypotension , and / or shock .
The common adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects .
These events are dose dependent , and their frequency depends on the clinical setting , the patient ' s level of opioid tolerance , and host factors specific to the individual .
They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid therapy .
The most frequent of adverse events include nausea , constipation , vomiting , headache , and pruritus .
The frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage , slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid .
Many of these common adverse events may abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed , but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy .
In all patients for whom dosing information was available ( n = 191 ) from the open - label and double - blind studies involving immediate - release oxycodone , the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence greater than or equal to 3 % .
In descending order of frequency they were : nausea , constipation , vomiting , headache , pruritus , insomnia , dizziness , asthenia , and somnolence .
The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3 % of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone : Body as a Whole : abdominal pain , accidental injury , allergic reaction , back pain , chills and fever , fever , flu syndrome , infection , neck pain , pain , photosensitivity reaction , and sepsis .
Cardiovascular : deep thrombophlebitis , heart failure , hemorrhage , hypotension , migraine , palpitation , and tachycardia .
Digestive : anorexia , diarrhea , dyspepsia , dysphagia , gingivitis , glossitis , and nausea and vomiting .
Hemic and Lymphatic : anemia and leukopenia .
Metabolic and Nutritional : edema , gout , hyperglycemia , iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema .
Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , arthritis , bone pain , myalgia and pathological fracture .
Nervous : agitation , anxiety , confusion , dry mouth , hypertonia , hypesthesia , nervousness , neuralgia , personality disorder , tremor , and vasodilation .
Respiratory : bronchitis , cough increased , dyspnea , epistaxis , laryngismus , lung disorder , pharyngitis , rhinitis , and sinusitis .
Skin and Appendages : herpes simplex , rash , sweating , and urticaria .
Special Senses : amblyopia .
Urogenital : urinary tract infection Most common adverse reactions are nausea , constipation , vomiting , headache , pruritus , insomnia , dizziness , asthenia , and somnolence .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novel Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS depressants : Increased risk of respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , or coma .
Use with caution in reduced dosages .
( 7 . 1 ) • Muscle relaxants : Enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
( 7 . 2 ) • Mixed agonist / antagonist opioid analgesics ( i . e . pentazocine , nalbuphine , and butorphanol ) : May reduce the analgesic effect and / or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
( 7 . 3 ) • The CYP3A4 enzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone , drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations .
( 7 . 4 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) : No specific interaction has been observed but caution in the use of oxycodone hydrochloride in patients taking this class of drugs is appropriate .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 CNS Depressants Other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants including sedatives , hypnotics , general anesthetics , antiemetics , phenothiazines , or other tranquilizers or alcohol increases the risk of respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , or coma .
Use oxycodone hydrochloride with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking these agents .
7 . 2 Muscle Relaxants Oxycodone hydrochloride may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
7 . 3 Mixed Agonist / Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Do not administer mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , butorphanol and buprenorphine ) to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride .
In these patients , mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and / or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
7 . 4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors A published study showed that the co - administration with voriconazole , a CYP3A4 inhibitor , significantly increased the plasma concentrations of oxycodone .
Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors , such as macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin ) , azole - antifungal agents ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) , and protease inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir ) , may prolong opioid effects .
If co - administration is necessary , caution is advised when initiating therapy with , currently taking , or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors .
Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co - administration of rifampin , a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer , significantly decreased plasma oxycodone concentrations .
Induction of CYP3A4 activity by its inducers , such as rifampin , carbamazepine , and phenytoin , may lead to a lack of efficacy or , possibly , development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone .
If co - administration is necessary , caution is advised when initiating therapy with , currently taking , or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers .
Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 .
While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs ( e . g . , certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants ) , such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent .
However , clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction .
7 . 5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) No specific interaction between oxycodone and monoamine oxidase inhibitors has been observed , but caution in the use of any opioid in patients taking this class of drugs is appropriate .
7 . 6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and / or severe constipation , which may lead to paralytic ileus .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric patients ( 8 . 5 ) , Renal impairment ( 8 . 7 ) : Use caution during dose selection , starting at the low end of the dosing range while carefully monitoring for side effects .
• Hepatic impairment ( 8 . 6 ) : initiate therapy at 1 / 3 to 1 / 2 the usual doses and titrate carefully .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of oxycodone use during pregnancy .
Based on limited human data in the literature , oxycodone does not appear to increase the risk of congenital malformations .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , oxycodone should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Teratogenic effects Reproduction studies in Sprague - Dawley rats and New Zealand rabbits revealed that when oxycodone was administered orally at doses up to 16 mg / kg ( approximately 2 times the daily oral dose of 90 mg for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) and 25 mg / kg ( approximately 5 times the daily oral dose of 90 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively was not teratogenic or embryo - fetal toxic .
Nonteratogenic effects Neonates whose mothers have taken oxycodone chronically may exhibit respiratory depression and / or withdrawal symptoms , either at birth and / or in the nursery .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho - physiologic effects in neonates .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is not recommended for use in women during and immediately prior to labor .
Occasionally , opioid analgesics may prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength , duration and frequency of uterine contractions .
However this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilatation , which tends to shorten labor .
Closely observe neonates whose mothers received opioid analgesics during labor for signs of respiratory depression .
Have a specific opioid antagonist , such as naloxone or nalmefene , available for reversal of opioid - induced respiratory depression in the neonate .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Low levels of oxycodone have been detected in maternal milk .
The amount of oxycodone hydrochloride delivered to the infant depends on the plasma concentration of the mother , the amount of milk ingested by the infant , and the extent of first - pass metabolism .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from oxycodone hydrochloride including respiratory depression , sedation and possibly withdrawal symptoms , upon cessation of oxycodone hydrochloride administration to the mother , decide whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness and the pharmacokinetics of oxycodone hydrochloride capsule in pediatric patients below the age of 18 have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Elderly patients ( aged 65 years or older ) may have increased sensitivity to oxycodone hydrochloride .
In general , use caution when selecting a dose for an elderly patient , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Since oxycodone is extensively metabolized , its clearance may be decreased in patients with hepatic impairment .
Follow a conservative approach to dose initiation in patients with hepatic impairment , monitor patients closely and adjust the dose based on clinical response .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Information from oxycodone tablets indicate that patients with renal impairment ( defined as a creatinine clearance < 60 mL / min ) had higher plasma concentrations of oxycodone than subjects with normal renal function .
Use a conservative approach to dose initiation in patients with renal impairment , monitor patients closely and adjust the dose based on clinical response .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Oxycodone hydrochloride is a mu - agonist opioid and is a Schedule II controlled substance .
Oxycodone hydrochloride , like other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
9 . 2 Abuse Drug addiction is characterized by compulsive use , use for non - medical purposes , and continued use despite harm or risk of harm .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multi - disciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
" Drug - seeking " behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated " loss " of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
" Doctor shopping " to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence .
The converse is also true .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for nonmedical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is intended for oral use only .
Abuse of oxycodone hydrochloride poses a risk of overdose and death .
The risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms .
[ See USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 2 ) ] 9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy .
The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
In general , taper opioids rather than abruptly discontinue .
[ See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 5 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms Acute overdosage with oxycodone hydrochloride is manifested by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , and , in some cases , pulmonary edema , bradycardia , hypotension , cardiac arrest and death .
Oxycodone hydrochloride may cause miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origin may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations .
[ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 ) ] 10 . 2 Treatment Give primary attention to re - establishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Employ supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompanying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
The pure opioid antagonists , naloxone or nalmefene , are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose .
Since the duration of reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of oxycodone hydrochloride , carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably re - established .
If the response to opioid antagonists is suboptimal or only brief in nature , administer additional antagonist as directed by the manufacturer of the product .
Do not administer opioid antagonists in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to oxycodone overdose .
Administer such agents cautiously to persons who are known , or suspected to be physically dependent on oxycodone .
In such cases , an abrupt or complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute abstinence syndrome .
In an individual physically dependent on opioids , administration of the usual dose of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered .
Reserve use of an opioid antagonist for cases where such treatment is clearly needed .
If it is necessary to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , initiate administration of the antagonist with care and titrate with smaller than usual doses 11 DESCRIPTION Oxycodone hydrochloride is a white to off - white , fine crystalline powder derived from the opium alkaloid , thebaine .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
Chemically , oxycodone hydrochloride is ( 5 R , 9 R , 13 S , 14 S ) - 4 , 5α - epoxy - 14 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one , hydrochloride ( salt ) with a molecular mass of 351 . 82 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each hard gelatin capsule contains 5 mg of oxycodone hydrochloride , USP and the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium Stearate , gelatin , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 40 , D & C Yellow 10 .
The imprinting ink contains : shellac , black iron oxide and potassium hydroxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxycodone hydrochloride , a pure opioid agonist , is relatively selective for the mu receptor , although it can interact with other opioid receptors at higher doses .
In addition to analgesia , the widely diverse effects of oxycodone hydrochloride include drowsiness , changes in mood , respiratory depression , decreased gastrointestinal motility , nausea , vomiting , and alterations of the endocrine and autonomic nervous system .
Effects on the Central Nervous System ( CNS ) The principal therapeutic action of oxycodone hydrochloride is analgesia .
Although the precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown , specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with oxycodone hydrochloride - like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are likely to play a role in the expression and perception of analgesic effects .
In common with other opioids , oxycodone hydrochloride causes respiratory depression , in part by a direct effect on the brainstem respiratory centers .
Oxycodone and related opioids depress the cough reflex by direct effect on the cough center in the medulla .
Oxycodone causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract And Other Smooth Muscle Gastric , biliary and pancreatic secretions are decreased by oxycodone hydrochloride .
Oxycodone hydrochloride , like other opioid analgesics , produces some degree of nausea and vomiting which is caused by direct stimulation of the chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) located in the medulla .
The frequency and severity of emesis gradually diminishes with time .
Oxycodone hydrochloride may cause a decrease in the secretion of hydrochloric acid in the stomach , may reduce motility , while increasing the tone in the antrum of the stomach and duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone may be increased to the point of spasm .
The end result may be constipation .
Oxycodone hydrochloride may also cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Effects on the Cardiovascular System In therapeutic doses , oxycodone hydrochloride , produces peripheral vasodilatation ( arteriolar and venous ) , decreased peripheral resistance , and inhibits baroreceptor reflexes .
Manifestations of histamine release and / or peripheral vasodilatation may include pruritus , flushing , red eyes , sweating , and / or orthostatic hypotension .
Caution should be used in hypovolemic patients , such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction , because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension .
Caution should also be used in patients with cor pulmonale who have received therapeutic doses of opioids .
Endocrine System Opioid agonists have been shown to have a variety of effects on the secretion of hormones .
Opioids inhibit the secretion of ACTH , cortisol , and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) in humans .
They also stimulate prolactin , growth hormone ( GH ) secretion , and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon in humans and other species , rats and dogs .
Thyroid stimulating hormone ( TSH ) has been shown to be both inhibited and stimulated by opioids .
Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in - vitro and animal models .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The activity of oxycodone hydrochloride capsules is primarily due to the parent drug oxycodone .
The oral bioavailability of oxycodone is 60 % to 87 % .
Oxycodone is extensively metabolized and eliminated primarily in the urine as both conjugated and unconjugated parent and its metabolites .
The apparent elimination half - life of oxycodone is approximately 4 hours .
Absorption About 60 to 87 % of an oral dose reaches the systemic circulation in comparison to a parenteral dose .
This high oral bioavailability ( compared to other opioids ) is due to lower pre - systemic and / or first - pass metabolism of oxycodone .
Food Effects When administered with a high - fat meal mean AUC values are increased by 23 % and peak concentrations are decreased by 14 % .
Food caused a delay in Tmax ( 1 . 00 to 3 . 00 hours ) .
Distribution Following intravenous administration , the volume of distribution ( Vss ) for oxycodone was 2 . 6 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of oxycodone at 37 ° C and a pH of 7 . 4 was about 45 % .
Oxycodone has been found in breast milk .
Metabolism Oxycodone hydrochloride is extensively metabolized by multiple metabolic pathways to noroxycodone , oxymorphone , and noroxymorphone , which are subsequently glucuronidated .
CYP3A4 mediated N - demethylation to noroxycodone is the primary metabolic pathway of oxycodone with less contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O - demethylation to oxymorphone .
Therefore , the formation of these and related metabolites can , in theory , be affected by other drugs .
The major circulating metabolite is noroxycodone with an AUC ratio of 0 . 6 relative to that of oxycodone .
Noroxycodone is reported to be a considerably weaker analgesic than oxycodone .
Oxymorphone , although possessing analgesic activity , is present in the plasma only in low concentrations .
The correlation between oxymorphone concentrations and opioid effects was much less than that seen with oxycodone plasma concentrations .
The analgesic activity profile of other metabolites is not known .
Excretion Oxycodone and its metabolites are excreted primarily via the kidney .
The amounts measured in the urine have been reported as follows : free oxycodone up to 19 % ; conjugated oxycodone up to 50 % ; free oxymorphone 0 % ; conjugated oxymorphone < 14 % ; both free and conjugated noroxycodone have been found in the urine but not quantified .
The total plasma clearance was 0 . 8 L / min for adults .
Apparent elimination half - life of oxycodone following the administration of oxycodone is approximately 4 hours .
Special Populations Elderly : Information obtained from oxycodone tablets indicate that the plasma concentrations of oxycodone did not appear to be increased in patients over the age of 65 .
Gender : Information obtained from oxycodone tablets support the lack of gender effect on the pharmacokinetics of oxycodone .
Renal Impairment : Information obtained from oxycodone tablets indicate that patients with renal impairment ( defined as creatinine clearance < 60 mL / min ) had higher plasma concentrations of oxycodone than subjects with normal renal function .
Hepatic Impairment : Since oxycodone is extensively metabolized , its clearance may decrease in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug - Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Inhibitors CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in noroxycodone formation .
A published study showed that the co - administration of voriconazole , a CYP3A4 inhibitor , increased oxycodone AUC and Cmax by 3 . 6 and 1 . 7 fold , respectively .
CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co - administration of rifampin , a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer , decreased oxycodone AUC and Cmax values by 86 % and 63 % , respectively .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 .
While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs ( e . g . , certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants ) , such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies of oxycodone hydrochloride to evaluate its carcinogenic potential have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Oxycodone hydrochloride was genotoxic in an in vitro mouse lymphoma assay in the presence of metabolic activation .
There was no evidence of genotoxic potential in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) and in an assay for chromosomal aberrations ( in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Impairment of Fertility The potential effects of oxycodone on male and female fertility have not been evaluated .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Oxycodone hydrochloride capsule Oxycodone hydrochloride capsule 5 mg is a size 2 hard gelatin capsule with yellow opaque cap and white opaque body imprinted with “ NL 950 ” on the cap and “ 5 mg ” on the body with black ink , filled with white to off white powder available in one strength as follows : 5 mg capsule NDC # 40032 - 950 - 03 : Bottle of 30 Capsules NDC # 40032 - 950 - 01 : Bottle of 100 Capsules NDC # 40032 - 950 - 50 : Bottle of 500 Capsules Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT from MOISTURE and LIGHT .
Handling All opioids , including oxycodone hydrochloride , are liable to diversion and misuse both by the general public and healthcare workers and should be handled accordingly .
DEA Order Form Required Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Provide the following information to patients receiving oxycodone hydrochloride or their caregivers : • Advise patients that oxycodone hydrochloride is a narcotic pain reliever , and should be taken only as directed .
• Advise patients that oxycodone hydrochloride capsule is available in one strength : 5 mg .
• Advise patients not to adjust the dose of oxycodone hydrochloride without consulting with a physician or other healthcare professional .
• Advise patients that oxycodone hydrochloride may cause drowsiness , dizziness , or lightheadedness and may impair mental and / or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks ( e . g . , driving , operating machinery ) .
Advise patients started on oxycodone hydrochloride or patients whose dose has been adjusted to refrain from any potentially dangerous activity until it is established that they are not adversely affected .
• Advise patients that oxycodone hydrochloride will add to the effect of alcohol and other CNS depressants ( such as antihistamines , sedatives , hypnotics , tranquilizers , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , other opioids , and monoamine oxidase [ MAO ] inhibitors ) .
• Instruct patients not to combine oxycodone hydrochloride with central nervous system depressants ( sleep aids , tranquilizers ) except by the orders of the prescribing physician , and not to combine with alcohol because dangerous additive effects may occur , resulting in serious injury or death .
• Instruct women of childbearing potential who become or are planning to become pregnant to consult a physician prior to initiating or continuing therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride .
• Advise patients that safe use in pregnancy has not been established and that prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy may cause fetal - neonatal physical dependence , and neonatal withdrawal may occur .
• If patients have been receiving treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride for more than a few weeks and cessation of therapy is indicated , counsel them on the importance of safely tapering the dose and that abruptly discontinuing the medication could precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
Provide a dose schedule to accomplish a gradual discontinuation of the medication .
• Advise patients that sharing this oxycodone can result in fatal overdose and death .
• Advise patients that oxycodone hydrochloride is a potential drug of abuse .
They must protect it from theft .
It should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom it was prescribed .
• Instruct patients to keep oxycodone hydrochloride in a secure place out of the reach of children .
When oxycodone hydrochloride is no longer needed , the unused capsules should be destroyed by flushing down the toilet .
• Advise patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride of the potential for severe constipation ; appropriate laxatives and / or stool softeners as well as other appropriate treatments should be initiated from the onset of opioid therapy .
• Advise patients of the most common adverse events that may occur while taking oxycodone hydrochloride : constipation , nausea , somnolence , lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , vomiting , and sweating .
• Advise patients to call 911 or the local Poison Control center , and get emergency help immediately if they take more oxycodone than prescribed , or overdose .
• Advise patients , that if they miss a dose , to take the missed dose as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to their regular dosing schedule .
Do not take two doses at once unless instructed by their doctor .
Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 PI9500000101 Rev . 10 / 2014 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Oxycodone Hydrochloride Capsules Container Label 30 count NDC 40032 - 950 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 count NDC 40032 - 950 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 count NDC 40032 - 950 - 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
