Active ingredient ( in each liquid - filled capsule ) Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold : • runny nose • sneezing Warnings Do not use • to make a child sleepy • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • glaucoma • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic beverages • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur , especially in children If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 capsules children 6 to under 12 years 1 capsule children under 6 years do not use Other information • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF OUTER PACKAGE IS OPENED OR BLISTER IS TORN OR BROKEN • store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted between 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) • protect from heat , humidity and light • see end flap for expiration date and lot number Inactive ingredients edible white ink , gelatin , glycerin , polyethylene glycol , purified water , sorbitol Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Principal Display Panel NDC 49035 - 658 - 08 equate ™ Compare to Benadryl ® Dye - Free Allergy LIQUI - GELS ® Active Ingredient * Dye - Free Allergy Relief Diphenhydramine HCl , 25 mg Antihistamine Relieves : • Sneezing • Runny nose • Itchy , watery eyes • Itchy throat 25 mg EACH 24 SOFTGELS Actual Size TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PACKAGE IS OPENED OR IF BLISTER UNIT IS TORN , BROKEN OR SHOWS ANY SIGNS OF TAMPERING DISTRIBUTEDBY : Walmart Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 Product of China .
Packaged and Quality Assured in the USA * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Corporation , owner of the registered trademark Benadryl ® Dye - Free Allergy LIQUI - GELS ® .
( Liqui - Gels ® is a registered trademark of Catalent Pharma Solutions , Inc . ) 50844 REV0419A65808 Satisfaction guaranteed - Or we ' ll replace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report an undesired reaction or side effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
