DESCRIPTION AMPHOTEC ® is a sterile , pyrogen - free , lyophilized powder for reconstitution and intravenous ( IV ) administration .
AMPHOTEC consists of a 1 : 1 ( molar ratio ) complex of amphotericin B and cholesteryl sulfate .
Upon reconstitution , AMPHOTEC forms a colloidal dispersion of microscopic disc - shaped particles .
Note : Liposomal encapsulation or incorporation into a lipid complex can substantially affect a drug ’ s functional properties relative to those of the unencapsulated drug or non - lipid associated drug .
In addition , different liposomal or lipid - complex products with a common active ingredient may vary from one another in the chemical composition and physical form of the lipid component .
Such differences may affect the functional properties of these drug products .
Amphotericin B is an antifungal polyene antibiotic produced by a strain of Streptomyces nodosus .
Amphotericin B , which is the established name for [ 1 R ( 1 R * , 3 S * , 5 R * , 6 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 15 S * , 16 R * , 17 R * , 18 S * , 19 E , 21 E , 23 E , 25 E , 27 E , 29 E , 31 E , 33 R * , 35 S * , 36 R * , 37 S * ) ] - 33 - [ ( 3 - Amino - 3 , 6 - dideoxy - ß - D - mannopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 3 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 11 , 17 , 37 - octahydroxy - 15 , 16 , 18 - trimethyl - 13 - oxo - 14 , 39 - dioxabicyclo [ 33 . 3 . 1 ] nonatriaconta - 19 , 21 , 23 , 25 , 27 , 29 , 31 - heptaene - 36 - carboxylic acid , has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of the drug is C47H73NO17 ; its molecular weight is 924 . 10 .
AMPHOTEC is available in 50 mg and 100 mg single dose vials .
Each 50 mg single dose vial contains amphotericin B , 50 mg ; sodium cholesteryl sulfate , 26 . 4 mg ; tromethamine , 5 . 64 mg ; disodium edetate dihydrate , 0 . 372 mg ; lactose monohydrate , 950 mg ; and hydrochloric acid , qs , as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , lyophilized powder .
Each 100 mg single dose vial contains amphotericin B , 100 mg ; sodium cholesteryl sulfate , 52 . 8 mg ; tromethamine , 11 . 28 mg ; disodium edetate dihydrate , 0 . 744 mg ; lactose monohydrate , 1900 mg ; and hydrochloric acid , qs , as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action The active ingredient of AMPHOTEC , amphotericin B , is a polyene antibiotic that acts by binding to sterols ( primarily ergosterol ) in cell membranes of sensitive fungi , with subsequent leakage of intracellular contents and cell death due to changes in membrane permeability .
Amphotericin B also binds to the sterols ( primarily cholesterol ) in mammalian cell membranes , which is believed to account for its toxicity in animals and humans .
Activity in vitro and in vivo AMPHOTEC is active in vitro against Aspergillus and Candida species .
One hundred and twelve clinical isolates of four different Aspergillus species and 88 clinical isolates of five different Candida species were tested , with a majority of minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) < 1 μg / mL .
AMPHOTEC is also active in vitro against other fungi .
In vitro , AMPHOTEC is fungistatic or fungicidal , depending upon the concentration of the drug and the susceptibility of the fungal organism .
However , standardized techniques for susceptibility testing for antifungal agents have not been established , and results of susceptibility studies do not necessarily correlate with clinical outcome .
AMPHOTEC is active in murine models against Aspergillus fumigatus , Candida albicans , Coccidioides immitis and Cryptococcus neoformans , and in an immunosuppressed rabbit model of aspergillosis in which endpoints were prolonged survival of infected animals and clearance of microorganisms from target organ ( s ) .
AMPHOTEC also was active in a hamster model of visceral leishmaniasis , a disease caused by infection of macrophages of the mononuclear phagocytic system by a protozoal parasite of the genus Leishmania .
In this hamster model the endpoints were also prolonged survival of infected animals and clearance of microorganisms from target organ ( s ) .
Drug Resistance Variants with reduced susceptibility to amphotericin B have been isolated from several fungal species after serial passage in cell culture media containing the drug and from some patients receiving prolonged therapy with amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Although the relevance of drug resistance to clinical outcome has not been established , fungal organisms that are resistant to amphotericin B may also be resistant to AMPHOTEC .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were studied in 51 bone marrow transplant patients with systemic fungal infections .
The median ( range ) age and weight of those patients were 32 ( 3 to 52 ) years and 69 . 5 ( 14 to 116 ) kg , respectively .
AMPHOTEC doses ranged from 0 . 5 to 8 . 0 mg / kg / day .
The assay used in this study to measure amphotericin B in plasma does not distinguish amphotericin B that is complexed with cholesteryl sulfate from uncomplexed amphotericin B .
A population modeling approach was used to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters ( see table ) .
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were best described by an open , two compartment structural model .
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were nonlinear .
Steady state volume of distribution ( Vss ) and total plasma clearance ( CLt ) increased with escalating doses , resulting in less than proportional increases in plasma concentration over a dose range of 0 . 5 to 8 . 0 mg / kg / day .
The increased volume of distribution probably reflected uptake by tissues .
The covariates of body weight and dose level accounted for a substantial portion of the variability of the pharmacokinetic estimates between patients .
The unexplained variability in clearance was 26 % .
Based on the population model developed for these patients , pharmacokinetic parameters were predicted for two doses of AMPHOTEC and are provided in the following table : Predicted Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Amphotericin B after Administration of Multiple Doses of AMPHOTEC [ a ] AMPHOTEC ( mg / kg / day ) Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameter [ b ] 3 4 [ a ] Data obtained using population modeling in 51 bone marrow transplant patients .
The modeling assumes amphotericin B pharmacokinetics after administration of AMPHOTEC is best described by a 2 - compartment model .
Infusion rate = 1 mg / kg / hour .
[ b ] Definitions : Vss - Volume of distribution at steady state , CLt - Total plasma clearance , Cmax - Maximum plasma concentration achieved at the end of an infusion , AUCss – Area under the plasma concentration time curve at steady - state .
Vss ( L / kg ) 3 . 8 4 . 1 CLt ( L / h / kg ) 0 . 105 0 . 112 Distribution Half - Life ( minutes ) 3 . 5 3 . 5 Elimination Half - Life ( hours ) 27 . 5 28 . 2 Cmax ( μg / mL ) 2 . 6 2 . 9 AUCss ( μg / mL • h ) 29 36 In addition , the pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate , were studied in 15 patients in whom amphotericin B deoxycholate was administered for the treatment of aspergillus infections or empirical therapy .
The median ( range ) age and weight for these patients were 21 ( 4 to 66 ) years and 60 ( 19 to 117 ) kg , respectively .
A population modeling approach was used to estimate the pharmacokinetic parameters .
The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate , was best described as an open , two - compartment model with linear elimination .
The predicted pharmacokinetic parameters are provided in the following table : Predicted Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Amphotericin B after Administration of Multiple Doses of 1 mg / kg Amphotericin B Deoxycholate [ a ] Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameter [ b ] Values [ a ] Data obtained using population modeling in 15 patients in whom amphotericin B deoxycholate was administered for treatment of aspergillus infection or empiric therapy .
The modeling assumes amphotericin B pharmacokinetics after administration of amphotericin B deoxycholate are best described by a 2 - compartment model .
Infusion rate = 0 . 25 mg / kg / hour .
[ b ] Definitions : Vss - Volume of distribution at steady state , CLt - Total plasma clearance , Cmax - Maximum plasma concentration achieved at the end of an infusion , AUCss - Area under the plasma concentration time curve at steady - state .
Vss ( L / kg ) 1 . 1 CLt ( L / h / kg ) 0 . 028 Distribution Half - Life ( minutes ) 38 Elimination Half - Life ( hours ) 39 Cmax ( μg / mL ) 2 . 9 AUCss ( μg / mL • h ) 36 An analytical assay that is able to distinguish between amphotericin B in the AMPHOTEC complex and amphotericin B which is not complexed to cholesteryl sulfate was used to analyze samples from a study of 25 patients who were either immunocompromised with aspergillosis or both febrile and neutropenic .
Following a 1 mg / kg / hour infusion , 25 ± 18 % ( mean ± SD ) of the total amphotericin B concentration measured in plasma was in the AMPHOTEC complex , dropping to 9 . 3 ± 7 . 9 % at 1 hour and 7 . 5 ± 9 . 3 % at 24 hours after the end of the infusion .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations A population modeling approach was used to assess the effect of renal function , hepatic function , and age on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEC in 51 patients receiving bone marrow transplants as described earlier .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were not related to baseline serum creatinine clearance in the population studied ; the median ( range ) creatinine clearance for this population was 74 . 0 ( range : 35 - 202 ) mL / min / 70 kg .
The effect of more severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEC has not been studied .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were not related to baseline liver function , as determined by liver enzymes and total bilirubin .
For the population tested , the mean ± SD values for AST and total Bilirubin were 59 . 4 ± 70 . 0 IU / mL and 3 . 5 ± 3 . 7 mg / dL , respectively .
The effect of more severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTEC has not been studied .
Age : The pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B , administered as AMPHOTEC , were not related to the age of the patient .
The median ( range ) age for the population in this study was 32 ( 3 to 52 ) years .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE AMPHOTEC is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in patients where renal impairment or unacceptable toxicity precludes the use of amphotericin B deoxycholate in effective doses , and in patients with invasive aspergillosis where prior amphotericin B deoxycholate therapy has failed .
DESCRIPTION OF CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical Studies in Aspergillosis Data from 161 patients with proven or probable aspergillus infection were pooled from 5 non - comparative open label studies , one of which included emergency use patients .
The patients were treated with AMPHOTEC because of failure to respond to amphotericin B deoxycholate ( n = 49 ) , development of nephrotoxicity while receiving amphotericin B deoxycholate ( n = 62 ) , preexisting renal impairment ( n = 25 ) , or other reasons ( n = 25 ) .
The median age of these 161 patients ( 92 males and 69 females ) was 41 years ( range 2 months to 85 years ) .
For the 155 patients with baseline neutrophil data , 33 patients ( 21 % ) had neutrophil counts of < 500 / mm3 .
The underlying diseases included bone marrow transplant , 69 ( 43 % ) ; hematological malignancy , 51 ( 32 % ) ; solid organ transplant , 25 ( 15 % ) ; solid tumor , 3 ( 2 % ) ; and other diagnoses , 13 ( 8 % ) including surgery , 4 ; HIV infection , 3 ; immunosuppression for autoimmune disease , 3 ; diabetes , 2 ; and no known underlying disease , 1 .
Pulmonary involvement was the primary infection site , 118 patients ( 73 % ) , followed by sinus , 14 ( 9 % ) , CNS , 9 ( 6 % ) , skin / wound , 9 ( 6 % ) , and others , 10 ( 6 % ) including 3 with bone involvement , 2 with hepatic involvement , 2 with disseminated disease and 1 each with endocarditis , ophthalmitis , otitis , and involvement of the hard palate .
The 49 patients enrolled due to failure to respond to amphotericin B had received amphotericin B deoxycholate prior to AMPHOTEC for ≤ 7 days ( 11 patients ) , 8 - 14 days ( 16 patients ) , and > 14 days ( 22 patients ) .
Patients were defined by their physicians as being refractory to amphotericin B deoxycholate therapy based on overall clinical judgment after receiving either a minimum of 7 days of amphotericin B deoxycholate or a minimum total dose of 15 mg / kg of amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Nephrotoxicity was defined as a serum creatinine that had doubled from baseline , increased by ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL or increased to ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL .
Preexisting renal impairment was defined as a serum creatinine that had increased to ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL due to reasons other than amphotericin B deoxycholate administration .
Classifications of diagnosis and response were based on the definitions previously developed by the Mycoses Study Group . 1 A retrospective response analysis was conducted in which a “ complete response ” was defined as resolution of all attributable symptoms , signs , and radiographic abnormalities present at enrollment , and a “ partial response ” was defined as major improvement of the abovementioned parameters .
The total number of responders was the sum of the number of “ complete ” and “ partial ” responses .
Of the 161 patients , 80 were considered evaluable for response .
Eighty - one ( 81 ) were excluded on the basis of inadequate diagnosis , confounding factors , or receiving ≤ 4 doses of AMPHOTEC .
In the evaluable patients , the median daily dose was 4 mg / kg / day ( range 0 . 73 - 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ) and the cumulative median dose was 6 . 3 g ( range 0 . 36 - 34 . 4 grams ) .
Median duration of treatment was 24 days ( range 5 - 129 days ) .
Response Rates for Evaluable PatientsPatient Group ( n ) Complete Response Partial Response Total Responders [ a ] Response Rate [ a ] Total responders = Complete responses + Partial responses .
[ b ] Defined , based on overall clinical judgment , after receiving a minimum of 7 days of amphotericin B deoxycholate or a minimum total dose of 15 mg / kg of amphotericin B deoxycholate .
[ c ] Defined as a serum creatinine that had doubled from baseline or increased by ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL or increased to ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL .
[ d ] Defined as a serum creatinine that had increased to ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL due to reasons other than amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Amphotericin B deoxycholate failure ( 28 ) [ b ] 3 9 12 43 % Nephrotoxicity ( 36 ) [ c ] 5 12 17 47 % Preexisting renal impairment ( 16 ) [ d ] 1 7 8 50 % Total ( 80 ) 9 28 37 46 % There is no directly comparable control group for the patients described in the above table to be certain whether similar patients would have responded had amphotericin B deoxycholate therapy been continued .
A randomized study comparing AMPHOTEC with amphotericin B deoxycholate for therapy of invasive aspergillosis is currently undergoing analysis .
Renal Function Patients with Renal Dysfunction at Baseline The subset of patients with aspergillosis from the above five noncomparative open label studies , who initiated treatment with AMPHOTEC when their serum creatinine was ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL ( n = 47 ) experienced a mean decline in serum creatinine during treatment .
In part , this decline may be attributed to patient dropout over time from this group .
A historical control group was selected by reviewing medical charts of patients from January 1990 to June 1994 at 6 medical centers ( M . D . Anderson Cancer Center , Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center , H . Lee Moffitt Cancer Center , University of Pittsburgh , Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center , and Bone Marrow Transplant Program at Emory University ) .
The mean change in serum creatinine was evaluated for similar cohorts of patients from this historical control group , with the baseline for assessing change being the day each patient ’ s serum creatinine reached ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL .
As shown in the figure , serum creatinine levels were lower during treatment with AMPHOTEC when compared to the serum creatinine levels of amphotericin B deoxycholate patients in the historical control group .
There is no directly comparable group to be certain whether this decline is significantly better than the results of serum creatinine levels in patients who had continued on amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Since these data were obtained from two separate studies , no statistical testing of the differences between these two groups was performed .
Changes in Mean Serum Creatinine Over Time in Patients with Aspergillosis and Baseline Serum Creatinine ≥ 2 . 0 mg / dL [ a ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ a ] These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient , but that of an openlabel cohort of patients .
[ b ] Administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Patients with Normal Renal Function at Baseline In a randomized , double - blind , multicenter study , 213 febrile neutropenic patients were given empirically either 4 mg / kg / day of AMPHOTEC or 0 . 8 mg / kg / day of amphotericin B deoxycholate for a maximum of 14 days .
This study was primarily designed to compare the safety profiles of these two treatments .
NOTE : AMPHOTEC is NOT approved for empirical treatment in febrile neutropenic patients .
In the above study , patients had largely normal renal function at baseline ; median serum creatinine levels were 0 . 8 mg / dL for both treatment groups .
The mean change in serum creatinine was evaluated for patients with baseline creatinine ≤ 1 . 5 mg / dL .
As shown in the graph , patients in both treatment groups showed an increase in serum creatinine while on study , however AMPHOTEC patients experienced significantly less creatinine increase at each time point .
Changes in Mean Serum Creatinine Over Time in Patients with Febrile Neutropenia , and Baseline Serum Creatinine ≤ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ a ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ a ] These curves do not represent the clinical course of a given patient , but that of a cohort of patients .
[ b ] Administered as amphotericin B deoxycholate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hypokalemia In the same empiric study , significantly more amphotericin B deoxycholate patients had at least one laboratory result of serum potassium < 3 . 0 mEq / L at least one time in the study compared with AMPHOTEC patients ( 23 % vs . 7 % ) , although concomitant supplemental potassium was allowed in the study design .
Both groups received approximately equal amounts of potassium supplementation .
Hypomagnesemia In the same empiric study , there was no overall trend for decreasing serum magnesium in either group .
CONTRAINDICATIONS AMPHOTEC should not be administered to patients who have documented hypersensitivity to any of its components , unless , in the opinion of the physician , the advantages of using AMPHOTEC outweigh the risks of hypersensitivity .
WARNINGS Anaphylaxis has been reported with amphotericin B deoxycholate and other amphotericin B - containing drugs .
Immediate treatment of anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions is required .
Epinephrine , oxygen , intravenous steroids , and airway management should be administered as indicated .
If severe respiratory distress occurs , the infusion should be immediately discontinued .
The patient should not receive further infusions of AMPHOTEC .
PRECAUTIONS General AMPHOTEC should be administered intravenously .
Acute infusionrelated reactions including fever , chills , hypoxia , hypotension , nausea , or tachypnea , may occur 1 to 3 hours after starting intravenous infusion .
These reactions are usually more severe or more frequent with the initial doses of AMPHOTEC and usually diminish with subsequent doses .
Acute infusion - related reactions can be managed by pretreatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids and / or by reducing the rate of infusion and by prompt administration of antihistamines and corticosteroids .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Rapid intravenous infusion should be avoided .
Laboratory Tests Particularly tests of renal and hepatic function , serum electrolytes , complete blood count and prothrombin time should be monitored as medically indicated .
Drug Interactions No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with AMPHOTEC ® .
When administered concomitantly , the following drugs are known to interact with amphotericin B ; therefore the following drugs may interact with AMPHOTEC .
Antineoplastic Agents Concurrent use of antineoplastic agents and amphotericin B may enhance the potential for renal toxicity , bronchospasm , and hypotension .
Caution is urged when antineoplastic agents are given concomitantly with AMPHOTEC .
Corticosteroids and Corticotropin ( ACTH ) Concurrent use of corticosteroids and corticotropin ( ACTH ) with amphotericin B may potentiate hypokalemia which could predispose the patient to cardiac dysfunction .
If corticosteroids or corticotropin are used concomitantly with AMPHOTEC , serum electrolytes and cardiac function should be monitored .
Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus In the same randomized , double - blind , empiric trial to compare AMPHOTEC and amphotericin B deoxycholate , patients with normal baseline serum creatinine were prospectively enrolled into four strata : adults receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus ( n = 89 ) ; or pediatric patients ( < 16 years old ) receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus ( n = 15 ) ; adults not receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus ( n = 75 ) ; or pediatric patients not receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus ( n = 34 ) .
Patients were assessed for renal toxicity defined as either a doubling or an increase of 1 . 0 mg / dL or more from baseline serum creatinine , or ≥ 50 % decrease from baseline calculated creatinine clearance .
Adults and pediatric patients receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus in addition to AMPHOTEC had a significantly lower rate of renal toxicity ( 31 % , 16 / 51 ) , compared to the amphotericin B deoxycholate patients receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus ( 68 % , 34 / 50 ) .
In the adults and pediatric patients not receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus , only 8 % ( 4 / 51 ) of the AMPHOTEC patients experienced renal toxicity compared to 35 % ( 17 / 49 ) of the amphotericin B deoxycholate patients .
Digitalis Glycosides Concurrent use of amphotericin B may induce hypokalemia and may potentiate digitalis toxicity .
If digitalis glycosides are administered concomitantly with AMPHOTEC , serum potassium levels should be closely monitored .
Flucytosine Concurrent use of flucytosine with amphotericin B containing preparations may increase the toxicity of flucytosine by possibly increasing its cellular uptake and / or impairing its renal excretion .
Caution is urged when flucytosine is given concomitantly with AMPHOTEC .
Imidazoles ( e . g . , ketoconazole , miconazole , clotrimazole , fluconazole , etc . ) Antagonism between amphotericin B and imidazole derivatives such as miconazole and ketoconazole which inhibit ergosterol synthesis , has been reported in both in vitro and in vivo animal studies .
The clinical significance of these findings has not been determined .
Other Nephrotoxic Medications Concurrent use of amphotericin B and agents such as aminoglycosides and pentamidine may enhance the potential for drug - induced renal toxicity .
Caution is urged if aminoglycosides or pentamidine are used concomitantly with AMPHOTEC .
Intensive monitoring of renal function is recommended in patients requiring any combination of nephrotoxic medications .
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants Amphotericin B - induced hypokalemia may enhance the curariform effect of skeletal muscle relaxants ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) due to hypokalemia .
If skeletal muscle relaxants are administered concomitantly with AMPHOTEC , serum potassium levels should be closely monitored .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed with AMPHOTEC or amphotericin B deoxycholate to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
AMPHOTEC and / or amphotericin B deoxycholate were not mutagenic in vitro with and without an exogenous mammalian microsomal metabolic activation system when assayed in the Salmonella reverse mutation assay , the CHO chromosomal aberration assay and the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay .
AMPHOTEC was also negative in vivo in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
No studies have been conducted to determine if AMPHOTEC affects fertility or if it produces adverse effects when administered peri - or post - natally in animals .
In multiple dose toxicity studies of up to 13 weeks in rats at doses up to 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose and in dogs at doses up to 0 . 4 times the recommended human dose ( based on body surface area ) , ovarian and testicular histology were unaffected .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B : There are no reports of pregnant women having been treated with AMPHOTEC .
Reproductive studies with AMPHOTEC in rats at doses up to 0 . 4 times the recommended human dose and in rabbits at doses up to 1 . 1 times the recommended human dose have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to treatment with AMPHOTEC .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response and because adequate and well controlled studies have not been conducted in pregnant women , AMPHOTEC should be used during pregnancy only if the anticipated benefit to the patient outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether AMPHOTEC is excreted in milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from amphotericin B , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue treatment with AMPHOTEC , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Ninety - seven pediatric patients with systemic fungal infections have been treated with AMPHOTEC , at daily doses ( mg / kg ) similar to those given to adults .
No unexpected adverse events have been reported .
In the same empiric , multicenter trial , pediatric patients ( < 16 years ) treated with AMPHOTEC had significantly less renal toxicity than amphotericin B deoxycholate patients .
Only 12 % ( 3 / 25 ) of pediatric patients treated with AMPHOTEC developed nephrotoxicity compared to 52 % ( 11 / 21 ) of pediatric patients receiving amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Renal toxicity defined as either a doubling or an increase of 1 . 0 mg / dL or more from baseline serum creatinine , or ≥ 50 % decrease from baseline calculated creatinine clearance .
Geriatric Use Sixty - eight patients at least 65 years of age have been treated with AMPHOTEC .
No unexpected adverse events have been reported .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse events are based on the experience of 572 AMPHOTEC patients from 5 open studies of patients with systemic fungal infections , of whom 526 were treated with a daily dose of 3 - 6 mg / kg .
Additionally , comparative adverse event data from 150 AMPHOTEC ( 4 or 6 mg / kg / day ) and 146 amphotericin B deoxycholate ( 0 . 8 or 1 mg / kg / day ) patients in prospectively randomized doubleblinded studies of empiric treatment of febrile and neutropenic patients or treatment of aspergillosis are also provided .
Infusion - related adverse events : Infusion - related adverse events ( 1 to 3 hours after starting intravenous infusion ) occurred most frequently in association with the first infusion of AMPHOTEC .
Their frequency and severity decreased with subsequent dosing .
Based on the combined non - comparative studies , 35 % ( 197 / 569 ) of the patients reported chills or chills and fever , possibly or probably related to AMPHOTEC , on the first day of dosing , compared to 14 % ( 58 / 422 ) by the seventh dose .
In the comparative studies , a similar decreasing trend was noted for AMPHOTEC and amphotericin B deoxycholate .
Adverse events that were considered to be possibly or probably related to AMPHOTEC and that occurred in 5 % or more of the patients are summarized in the table below : Summary of Probably and Possibly Related Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 5 % of AMPHOTEC Patients Non - Comparative Studies Comparative Studies [ a ] Adverse Event AMPHOTEC ( n = 572 ) % AMPHOTEC Aspergillosis Patients ( n = 161 ) % AMPHOTEC ( n = 150 ) % Amphotericin B Deoxycholate ( n = 146 ) % [ a ] From AMPHOTEC ( 4 or 6 mg / kg / day ) and amphotericin B deoxycholate ( 0 . 8 or 1 mg / kg / day ) patients in prospectively randomized double - blinded studies of empiric treatment of febrile and neutropenic patients or treatment of first - line aspergillosis , respectively .
[ b ] Includes patients with “ kidney function abnormal ” which was associated with an increase in creatinine .
Body as a Whole Chills 50 55 77 56 Fever 33 34 55 47 Headache 5 8 4 3 Chills and fever 3 3 7 2 Cardiovascular System Hypotension 10 9 12 5 Tachycardia 10 12 9 5 Hypertension 7 9 7 6 Digestive System Nausea 8 12 7 7 Nausea and vomiting 7 11 4 7 Vomiting 6 8 11 8 Liver function test abnormal 4 4 11 8 Hemic and Lymphatic System Thrombocytopenia 6 7 1 1 Metabolic / Nutritional Disorders Creatinine increased [ b ] 12 12 21 34 Hypokalemia 8 7 26 29 Hypomagnesemia 4 7 6 11 Hyperbilirubinemia 3 2 19 17 Alkaline phosphatase increased 3 3 7 8 Hyperglycemia 1 1 6 9 Respiratory System Dyspnea 5 4 9 4 Hypoxia 5 6 9 5 Additionally , the following adverse events also occurred in 5 % or more of AMPHOTEC patients ; however , the causal relationship of these adverse events is uncertain : General ( body as a whole ) Abdomen enlarged , abdominal pain , back pain , chest pain , face edema , injection site inflammation , mucous membrane disorder , pain , sepsis Cardiovascular System Cardiovascular disorder , hemorrhage , postural hypotension Digestive System Diarrhea , dry mouth , hematemesis , jaundice , stomatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System Anemia , coagulation disorder , prothrombin decreased Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Edema , generalized edema , hypocalcemia , hypophosphatemia , peripheral edema , weight gain Nervous System Confusion , dizziness , insomnia , somnolence , thinking abnormal , tremor Respiratory System Apnea , asthma , cough increased , epistaxis , hyperventilation , lung disorder , rhinitis Skin and Appendages Maculopapular rash , pruritis , rash , sweating Special Senses Eye hemorrhage Urogenital Hematuria The following adverse events occurred in 1 % to less than 5 % of AMPHOTEC patients .
The causal association between these adverse events and AMPHOTEC is uncertain .
General ( body as a whole ) Accidental injury , allergic reaction , asthenia , death , hypothermia , immune system disorder , infection , injection site pain , injection site reaction , neck pain Cardiovascular System Arrhythmia , atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , congestive heart failure , heart arrest , phlebitis , shock , supraventricular tachycardia , syncope , vasodilatation , venoocclusive liver disease , ventricular extrasystoles Digestive System Anorexia , bloody diarrhea , constipation , dyspepsia , fecal incontinence , gamma glutamyl transpeptidase increased , gastrointestinal disorder , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gingivitis , glossitis , hepatic failure , melena , mouth ulceration , oral moniliasis , rectal disorder Hemic and Lymphatic System Ecchymosis , fibrinogen increased , hypochromic anemia , leukocytosis , leukopenia , petechia , thromboplastin decreased Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Acidosis , BUN increased , dehydration , hyponatremia , hyperkalemia , hyperlipemia , hypernatremia , hypervolemia , hypoglycemia , hypoproteinemia , lactic dehydrogenase increased , AST ( SGOT ) increased , ALT ( SGPT ) increased , weight loss Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia , myalgia Nervous System Agitation , anxiety , convulsion , depression , hallucinations , hypertonia , nervousness , neuropathy , paresthesia , psychosis , speech disorder , stupor Respiratory System Hemoptysis , lung edema , pharyngitis , pleural effusion , respiratory disorder , sinusitis Skin and Appendages Acne , alopecia , petechial rash , skin discoloration , skin disorder , skin nodule , skin ulcer , urticaria , vesiculobullous rash Special Senses Amblyopia , deafness , ear disorder , tinnitus Urogenital System Albuminuria , dysuria , glycosuria , kidney failure , oliguria , urinary incontinence , urinary retention , urinary tract disorder OVERDOSAGE AMPHOTEC is not dialyzable .
Amphotericin B deoxycholate overdose has been reported to result in cardio - respiratory arrest .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients is 3 - 4 mg / kg as required , once a day .
AMPHOTEC , reconstituted in Sterile Water for Injection , is administered diluted in 5 % Dextrose for Injection by intravenous infusion at a rate of 1 mg / kg / hour .
A test dose immediately preceding the first dose is advisable when commencing all new courses of treatment .
A small amount of drug ( e . g . , 10 mL of the final preparation containing between 1 . 6 to 8 . 3 mg ) should be infused over 15 to 30 minutes and the patient carefully observed for the next 30 minutes .
The infusion time may be shortened to a minimum of 2 hours for patients who show no evidence of intolerance or infusion - related reactions .
If the patient experiences acute reactions or cannot tolerate the infusion volume , the infusion time may be extended .
Directions for reconstitution and preparation of infusion admixture AMPHOTEC must be reconstituted by addition of Sterile Water for Injection .
Using sterile syringe and a 20 - gauge needle , rapidly add the following volumes to the vial to provide a liquid containing 5 mg of amphotericin B per mL .
Shake gently by hand , rotating the vial until all solids have dissolved .
Note that the fluid may be opalescent or clear .
50 mg / vial add 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection 100 mg / vial add 20 mL Sterile Water for Injection For infusion , further dilute the reconstituted liquid to a final concentration of approximately 0 . 6 mg / mL ( range 0 . 16 mg / mL to 0 . 83 mg / mL ) .
The following table provides dilution recommendations : Dose of AMPHOTEC Volume of Reconstituted AMPHOTEC Infusion Bag Size for 5 % Dextrose for Injection 10 – 35 mg 2 – 7 mL 50 mL 35 – 70 mg 7 – 14 mL 100 mL 70 – 175 mg 14 – 35 mL 250 mL 175 – 350 mg 35 – 70 mL 500 mL 350 – 1000 mg 70 – 200 mL 1000 mL Do not reconstitute the lyophilized powder with saline or dextrose solutions , or admix the reconstituted liquid with saline or electrolytes .
The use of any solution other than those recommended , or the presence of a bacteriostatic agent ( e . g . , benzyl alcohol ) in the solution may cause precipitation of AMPHOTEC .
Do not filter or use an in - line filter with AMPHOTEC .
Do not mix the infusion admixture with other drugs .
If administered through an existing intravenous line , flush with 5 % Dextrose for Injection prior to , and following , infusion of AMPHOTEC , otherwise administer via a separate line .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use if a precipitate or foreign matter is present , or if the seal is not intact .
Strict aseptic technique always should be observed during reconstitution and dilution since no preservatives are present in the lyophilized drug or in the solutions used for reconstitution and dilution .
After reconstitution , the drug should be refrigerated at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) and used within 24 hours .
Do not freeze .
After further dilution with 5 % Dextrose for Injection , the infusion should be stored in a refrigerator ( 2 - 8 ° C ) and used within 24 hours .
Partially used vials should be discarded .
HOW SUPPLIED AMPHOTEC ® ( Amphotericin B ) Cholesteryl Sulfate Complex for Injection is a sterile lyophilized powder supplied in single use glass vials .
Each vial is individually packaged .
AMPHOTEC 50 mg in 20 mL vial ( NDC 64116 - 025 - 01 ) AMPHOTEC 100 mg in 50 mL vial ( NDC 64116 - 021 - 01 ) STORAGE Store unopened vials of AMPHOTEC at 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
AMPHOTEC should be retained in the carton until time of use .
Manufactured by : Ben Venue Laboratories , Inc . , Bedford , OH 44146 , USA Distributed by : InterMune , Inc . , Brisbane , CA 94005 U . S . Patent Numbers 4 , 822 , 777 ; 5 , 032 , 582 ; 5 , 194 , 266 ; 5 , 077 , 057 .
Rx Only REFERENCES 1 Denning DW , Lee JY , Hostetler JS , et al .
NIAID Mycoses Study Group multicenter trial of oral itraconazole therapy for invasive aspergillosis .
Am J Med .
1994 ; 97 : 135 - 144 .
July 2001 LB - 1004 . 2
