DESCRIPTION : Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , solution of sodium bicarbonate ( NaHCO3 ) in Water for Injection .
It is added to an appropriate local anesthetic as a neutralizing agent immediately prior to administration .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for single - use .
pH is adjusted with carbon dioxide .
Per the USP monograph for Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , pH is between 7 . 0 and 8 . 5 .
Osmolar concentration is 2 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
Sodium bicarbonate , 84 mg is equal to one milliequivalent each of Na + and HCO3 - .
Sodium Bicarbonate , USP is chemically designated as NaHC03 , a white crystalline powder soluble in water .
Sodium bicarbonate in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and bicarbonate ( HCO3 - ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Bicarbonate ( HCO3 - ) is a normal constituent of body fluids and the normal plasma level ranges from 24 to 31 mEq / liter .
Bicarbonate anion is considered “ labile ” since at a proper concentration of hydrogen ion ( H + ) it may be converted to carbonic acid ( H2CO3 ) and thence to its volatile form , carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) excreted by the lung .
Normally a ratio of 1 : 20 ( carbonic acid ; bicarbonate ) is present in the extracellular fluid .
In a healthy adult with normal kidney function , practically all the glomerular filtered bicarbonate ion is reabsorbed ; less than 1 % is excreted in the urine .
Non - neutral parenteral solutions with a low ( acidic ) pH are known to cause chemical irritation of tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution is indicated to hasten onset of analgesia and reduce injection pain , by adjusting commercial preparations of Lidocaine w / Epinephrine anesthetic solution to a more physiologic pH . The practitioner should choose a volume of Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution to be mixed with Lidocaine w / Epinephrine in a ratio of 1 : 10 ( local anesthetic solution to sodium bicarbonate solution ) .
The below table provides a mixing guide showing for convenience the volumes of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Neutralizing Additive Solution to be added to the commercial preparations of Lidocaine with Epinephrine in order to achieve a mixed ratio of 10 : 1 .
10 : 1 Anesthetic - to - Bicarbonate Solution Ratio Mixing Guide for 10 : 1 Volume ( mL ) , Lidocaine w / Epinephrine ( container type ) Volume ( mL ) , 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Solution 1 . 8 mL ( cartridge ) 0 . 18 mL 20 mL ( Vial ) 2 . 0 mL 30 mL ( Vial ) 3 . 0 mL 50 mL ( Vial ) 5 . 0 m CONTRAINDICATIONS : Not for use as a systemic alkalizer .
WARNINGS : None known .
PRECAUTIONS : Administer local anesthetic solution immediately after combining with Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution .
When combining local anesthetic solution with Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly , and do not store .
Do not use unless Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution is clear , colorless , and free of particulates or cloudiness , and the container or seal is intact .
Do not use if the inner or outer packaging are damaged .
Discard unused portion .
Do not use local anesthetic combined with Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution unless the combined solution is clear , colorless , and free of particulates or cloudiness .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter , cloudiness and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Drug Interactions Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution and Lidocaine w / Epinephrine are compatible .
See Compatibility section under Sodium Bicarbonate in The Handbook on Injectable Drugs by Lawrence A . Trissel , 14 th ed .
2007 ( American Society of Health - System Pharmacists , Bethesda , MD ) .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted in which Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution was evaluated .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted in which Lidocaine w / Epinephrine that has been pH adjusted by the addition of Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution was evaluated .
It is not known whether Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or whether it can affect reproduction capacity .
It is not known whether Lidocaine w / Epinephrine that has been pH adjusted by the addition of Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or whether it can affect reproduction capacity .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : None known .
OVERDOSAGE : Adding a volume of Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution to Lidocaine w / Epinephrine solution such that the pH of the Lidocaine w / Epinephrine is raised above physiologic pH may cause anesthetic to precipitate out of solution , reducing the clinical effectiveness of the anesthetic .
See , e . g . , Mulroy MF , Regional Anesthesia , An Illustrated Procedural Guide , 3 rd Ed .
2002 ( Lippincott Williams and Wilkins , Philadelphia , PA ) .
In addition , solutions that contain precipitate should not be injected .
Adding a volume of Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP Neutralizing Additive Solution to Lidocaine w / Epinephrine solution such that the pH of the Lidocaine w / Epinephrine is raised well above ( 7 . 8 ) physiologic pH may cause tissue irritation when the solution is injected .
See Whitcomb M , et al , A Prospective Randomized , Double Blind Study of the Anesthetic Efficacy of Sodium Bicarbonate Buffered 2 % Lidocaine with 1 : 100 , 000 Epinephrine in Inferior Alveolar Nerve Blocks , Anesth Prog , vol 57 , p 59 ( 2010 ) .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Bicarbonate Inj . , 8 . 4 % USP is supplied in 2 . 7 mL or 1 . 7 mL single - dose cartridges , packaged in a four - cartridge package .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
( See USP ) .
REFERENCES , INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Barash PG , Cullen BF , Stoelting RK , Clinical Anesthesia ( 4 th Ed .
2001 Lippincott Williams and Wilken ) .
Bhatt H , Powell KJ , Jean DA , First Aid for the Anesthesiology Boards , An Insider ' s Guide ( 2011 , McGraw - Hill Medical ) .
Cepeda MS , Tzortzopoulou A , Thackrey M , Hudcova J , Arora Gandhi P , Schumann R . , Adjusting the pH of lidocaine for reducing pain on injection .
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010 , Issue 12 .
Art .
No . : CD006581 .
Chu LF , Clinical Anesthesiology Board Review ( 2005 , McGraw - Hill Medical ) .
Malamed SF , Handbook of Local Anesthesiology ( 5 th Ed .
2004 , Elsevier Mosby ) .
Miller RD , Miller ' s Anesthesia ( 6 th Ed .
2004 ) .
Stoelting RK , Miller RD , Basics of Anesthesia ( 5 th Ed .
2007 , Churchill Livingstone Elsevier ) .
REFERENCES , DOSAGE : Christoph RA , Buchanan L , Begalla K , Schwartz S , Pain reduction in local anesthetic administration through pH buffering , Annals of Emergency Medicine , vol 17 , no 2 , p 117 ( 1988 ) .
Martin AJ , pH - adjustment and discomfort caused by the intradermal injection of lignocaine , Anaesthesia , vol 45 , p 975 ( 1990 ) .
Masters JE , Randomised control trial of pH buffered lignocaine with adrenaline in outpatient operations , British Journal of Plastic Surgery , vol 51 , p 385 ( 1998 ) .
McKay W , Morris R , Mushlin P , Sodium bicarbonate attenuates pain on skin infiltration with or without epinephrine , Anesthesia and Analgesia , vol 66 , p 572 ( 1987 ) .
Narvaez J , Wessels I , Bacon G , Chin VR , Baqai WK , Zimmerman GJ , Prospective randomized evaluation of short - term complications when using buffered or unbuffered lidocaine 1 % with epinephrine for blepharoplasty surgery , Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery , vol 26 , no1 , p 33 ( 2010 ) .
Talu H , Elibol O , Yanyali A , Karabas L , Alp B , Caglar Y , Effect of warming and buffering lidocaine on pain during facial anesthesia , Annals of Ophthalmology , vol 33 , no 1 , p 43 ( 2001 ) .
Manufactured for Onpharma Inc . , Los Gatos , CA 95030 Customer Care Center : ( 877 ) 336 - 6738 NDC 50509 - 100 - 01 NDC 50509 - 100 - 03 Copyright © 2011 Onpharma Inc .
All Rights Reserved ( 11 / 2011 ) LS013 - D 1 . 7 mL Vial Carton Image : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 . 7 mL Vial Label Image : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
