Active ingredient Clotrimazole USP 1 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Cream Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Cures athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) .
Relieves the itching , irritation , redness , scaling and discomfort which can accompany these conditions .
Warnings ● For external use only ● Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
● Avoid contact with eyes .
● If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ’ s foot or ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly .
● Apply a thin layer of this product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor .
● Supervise children in the use of this product .
● For athlete ’ s foot , pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
● For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
● If conditions persists longer , consult a doctor .
● This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Stop Use and ask a doctor if • Irritation occurs • There is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot or ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
Inactive Ingredients Dimethyl Sulfoxide , Ethylparaben , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Laureth - 23 , Light Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Stearyl Alcohol , Water Other Information • store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • Close cap tightly after use .
Other Information FootCure ® Clotrimazole Anti - Fungal Cream is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , owner of the registered trademark Lotrimin ® AF .
Questions Adverse Event call 1 888 296 9067 For questions , refund or replacment needed please contact us support @ myfootcure . com www . myfootcure . com Packaging and Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
