Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Keep out of Reach of Children If Swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Immediately .
Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritataions , inflammation and rashes due to • Eczema • Insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine , genital and anal itching Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • For the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor • For external genital itching , if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor When using this Product • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• For external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor • Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop Using this product and ask a doctor if • Conditions worsen • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Directions Adults and children 2 years and older • Apply to affected area not mroe than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • Do not use • Consult a doctor For External and Anal Itching • Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• Children under 12 years of age with external anal itching ; consult a doctor .
Other Information Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis leaf juice , Cetostearyl alcohol , Edtate disodium , Glyceryl monostearate , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sorbitan Monostearate , White Petrolatum Questions Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 If for any reason you are not satisfied with this product , please return it to the store where purchased for a full refund .
Other Information This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem Inc . distributor of Cortizone - 10 ® Aloe Distributed By : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC .
407 East Lancaster Avenue Wayne , PA . 19087 Product of PRC Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
