DESCRIPTION Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP is a sterile , topical anti - infective agent for ophthalmic use .
Gentamicin is obtained from cultures of Micromonospora purpurea .
It is a mixture of the sulfate salts of gentamicin C1 , C2 , and C1A .
All three components appear to have similar antimicrobial activity .
Gentamicin sulfate occurs as a white to buff powder and is soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains : Active : gentamicin sulfate equivalent to 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) gentamicin base .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride .
Inactives : edetate disodium ; polyvinyl alcohol 1 . 4 % ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; sodium phosphate , dibasic ; and hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . The solution is an aqueous , buffered solution with a shelf life pH range of 6 . 5 to 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Gentamicin sulfate is active in vitro against many strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , acute meibomianitis , and dacryocystitis , caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of topical antibiotics may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms , including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to gentamicin may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
If irritation or hypersensitivity to any component of the drug develops , the patient should discontinue use of this preparation and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Information for Patients To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to the eye , eyelid or any surface .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no published carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility studies on gentamicin .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to be non - mutagenic .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Gentamicin has been shown to depress body weights , kidney weights and median glomerular counts in newborn rats when administered systemically to pregnant rats in daily doses approximately 500 times the maximum recommended ophthalmic human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Gentamicin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in neonates have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with gentamicin ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are ocular burning and irritation upon drug instillation , non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival epithelial defects and conjunctival hyperemia .
Other adverse reactions which have occurred rarely are allergic reactions , thrombocytopenic purpura and hallucinations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour .
HOW SUPPLIED Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution , USP 0 . 3 % is supplied sterile in white opaque LDPE plastic bottles and tips with white high impact polystyrene ( HIPS ) caps as follows : • 5 mL in 10 mL bottle – NDC 63187 - 163 - 05 Storage : Store at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F or above ) .
Revised : 08 / 2013 Distributed for : Allegan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 Made in the U . S . A . © 2013 Allergan , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . ® mark owned by Allergan , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 71759PY11 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
