Active ingredient Purpose Benzoyl Peroxide , 2 . 5 % ....................................... Acne Treatment Use - for the management of acne Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Use morning and night .
Apply a small ( dime sized ) amount to dampened skin and gently massage for one to two minutes .
- rinse thoroughly with warm water - pat dry - if bothersome drying or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day - if going outside , use a sunscreen Other Information - this product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics - avoid storing at extreme temperatures ( below 40 degrees F and above 100 degrees F ) Warnings For external use only .
Do not use this medication if you have very sensitive skin or if you are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product .
This may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water - Keep away from lips and mouth - Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Use morning and night .
Apply a small ( dime sized ) amount to dampened skin and gently massage for one to two minutes .
- rinse thoroughly with warm water - pat dry - if bothersome drying or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day - if going outside , use a sunscreen Other Information - this product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics - avoid storing at extreme temperatures ( below 40 degrees F and above 100 degrees F ) Inactive Ingredients purified water , disodium PEG - 12 diemthicone sulfonsuccinate , magnesium aluminum silicate , glyceryl stearate , tridecyl stearate , neopentyl glycol dicaprylate / dicaprate , tridecyl trimellate , PEG - 100 stearate , sorbitol , dimethyl isosorbide , polyethylene , cetyl esters , anthemis nobilis flower extract , xanthan gum , proplyene glycol , imidazolidinyl urea , solium hyaluronate , sodium PCA , methylparaben , propylparaben , fragrance [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
