Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 11 . 7 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 4 . 5 % Oxybenzone 5 . 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk reqularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , propylene glycol , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , triethanolamine , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , oleth - 3 , polyamide - 8 , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , fragrance , disodium EDTA May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sport High Performance Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
Distributed by : Family Dollar Services Inc .
10401 Monroe Rd . , Matthews , NC 28105 , USA principal display panel Tropic Sun Sport Sunscreen Lotion Broad spectrum SPF 50 Compare to Coppertone Sport Sunscreen * SPF 50 Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) UVA / UVB sunscreen Paraben free 3 FL OZ ( 89 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
