Tucks ® Hemorrhoidal Cream Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Glycerin 15 . 0 % ( w / w ) Protectant Lidocaine 5 . 0 % ( w / w ) Local anesthetic Uses • temporarily relieves the local pain , itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • temporarily relieves rectal irritation and burning Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed to do so by a doctor • do not put directly in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product .
If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , or other symptoms develop or increase , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly  • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients arachidyl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , avena sativa kernel flour ( colloidal oatmeal ) , behenyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , ethylhexylglycerin , microcrystalline wax , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , polyglyceryl - 3 diisostearate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sorbitan isostearate , stearyl behenate Tucks ® Medicated Cooling Pads Drug Facts Active ingredient Witch hazel ( 50 % w / w ) Purpose Astringent Uses • temporarily relieves the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas • temporarily relieves irritation and burning Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • DO NOT FLUSH - after application , discard pad in trash and wash hands • for use as a moist compress — if necessary , first cleanse the area and place wipe in contact with irritated area for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed but not to exceed directions for use Inactive ingredients citric acid , disodium EDTA , ethylhexylglycerin , glycerin , phenoxyethanol , potassium sorbate , purified water , sodium citrate PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton TUCKS ® MULTI - CARE RELIEF KIT Cream : Local Anesthetic / Protectant Pads : Astringent Lidocaine 5 % Cream to numb & protect painful hemorrhoids + Witch Hazel Pads to cleanse & soothe rectal or vaginal areas TUCKS ® HEMORRHOIDAL CREAM MAXIMUM STRENGTH LIDOCAINE with Colloidal Oatmeal TUCKS ® MEDICATED COOLING PADS WITH WITCH HAZEL 40 PADS with Ultra - soft Fabric Net Wt .
0 . 5 oz .
( 14 g ) - 1 Tube 2 - Product Value 40 Pads 1 Jar [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
