[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Cardioplegic Solution is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , essentially isotonic , formulation of electrolytes in water for injection .
It is a " core solution " intended for use only after addition of sodium bicarbonate to adjust pH prior to administration .
After buffering with sodium bicarbonate it is suitable for cardiac instillation ( usually with hypothermia ) to induce arrest during open heart surgery .
Other agents may be added to the solution prior to instillation ( See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ) .
Each 100 mL of solution contains calcium chloride , dihydrate 17 . 6 mg , magnesium chloride , hexahydrate 325 . 3 mg , potassium chloride 119 . 3 mg and sodium chloride 643 mg in water for injection .
May contain HCl or NaOH for pH adjustment .
Electrolyte content per liter ( not including ions for pH adjustment ) : Calcium ( Ca + + ) 2 . 4 mEq ; magnesium ( Mg + + ) 32 mEq ; potassium ( K + ) 16 mEq ; sodium ( Na + ) 110 mEq ; chloride ( Cl ‾ ) 160 mEq .
Osmolar concentration , 304 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
; pH 3 . 8 ( 3 . 5 to 3 . 9 ) prior to sodium bicarbonate addition .
It is required that 10 mL ( 840 mg ) of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP ( 10 mEq each of sodium and bicarbonate ) be added aseptically and thoroughly mixed with each 1000 mL of cardioplegic solution to adjust pH . Use 10 mL of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP , to achieve the approximate pH of 7 . 8 when measured at room temperature .
Use of any other Sodium Bicarbonate Injection may not achieve this pH due to the varying pH ' s of Sodium Bicarbonate Injections .
Due to its inherent instability with other components , sodium bicarbonate must be added just prior to administration .
After this addition , the solution must be stored under refrigeration and be used within 24 hours .
The buffered admixture contains the following electrolytes ( per liter ) : Ca + + 2 . 4 mEq , Mg + + 32 mEq , K + 16 mEq , Na + 120 mEq , Cl ‾ 160 mEq and bicarbonate ( HCO3 ‾ ) 10 mEq ; osmolar concentration , 324 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
; pH 7 . 8 ( approx . )
.
If other agents are added , these values may be altered .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , or antimicrobial agent and is intended only for use ( after adjusting pH with sodium bicarbonate ) in a single operative procedure .
When smaller amounts are required , the unused portion should be discarded .
Cardioplegic Solution with added sodium bicarbonate used as a coronary artery infusate induces cardiac arrest , combats ischemic ionic disturbances , buffers ischemic acidosis and protects energy sources for functional recovery after ischemia .
Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride , dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2 H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Magnesium Chloride , USP is chemically designated magnesium chloride , hexahydrate ( MgCl2 • 6 H2O ) , deliquescent flakes or crystals very soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cardioplegic Solution with added sodium bicarbonate when cooled and instilled into the coronary artery vasculature , causes prompt arrest of cardiac electromechanical activity , combats intracellular ion losses and buffers ischemic acidosis .
When used with hypothermia and ischemia , the action may be characterized as cold ischemic potassium - induced cardioplegia .
This is conducive to providing the surgeon with a quiet , relaxed heart and bloodless field of operation .
Calcium ( Ca + + ) ion in low concentration is included in the solution to maintain integrity of cell membrane to ensure that there is no likelihood of calcium paradox during reperfusion .
Magnesium ( Mg + + ) ion may help stabilize the myocardial membrane by inhibiting a myosin phosphorylase , which protects adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) reserves for postischemic activity .
The protective effects of magnesium and potassium have been shown to be additive .
Potassium ( K + ) ion concentration is responsible for prompt cessation of mechanical myocardial contractile activity .
The immediacy of the arrest thus preserves energy supplies for postischemic contractile activity in diastole .
The chloride ( Cl ‾ ) and sodium ( Na + ) ions have no specific role in the production of cardiac arrest .
Sodium is essential to maintain ionic integrity of myocardial tissue .
The chloride ions are present to maintain the electroneutrality of the solution .
Added bicarbonate ( HCO3 ‾ ) anion is included as a buffer to render the solution slightly alkaline and compensate for the metabolic acidosis that accompanies ischemia .
Extemporaneous alternative buffering to the described formulation of this solution is not recommended .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cardioplegic Solution when suitably buffered in combination with ischemia and hypothermia is used to induce cardiac arrest during open heart surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cardioplegic Solution must not be administered without the addition of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP .
NOT FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
This solution is only for instillation into cardiac vasculature after buffering with sodium bicarbonate .
WARNINGS This solution should be used only by those trained to perform open heart surgery .
This solution is intended only for use during cardiopulmonary bypass when the coronary circulation is isolated from the systemic circulation ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Do not instill the solution into the coronary vasculature unless sodium bicarbonate has been added .
If large volumes of cardioplegic solution are infused and allowed to return to the heart lung machine without any venting from the right heart , then plasma magnesium and potassium levels may rise .
Development of severe hypotension and metabolic acidosis while on bypass has been reported when large volumes ( 8 to 10 liters ) of solution are instilled and allowed to enter the pump and then the systemic circulation .
Right heart venting is therefore recommended .
The buffered solution with added sodium bicarbonate should be cooled to 4 ° C prior to administration and used within 24 hours of mixing .
PRECAUTIONS Myocardial temperature should be monitored during surgery to maintain hypothermia .
Continuous electrocardiogram monitoring is essential to detect changes in myocardial activity during the procedure .
Appropriate equipment to defibrillate the heart following cardioplegia should be readily available .
Inotropic support drugs should be available during postoperative recovery .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store ( See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ) .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Cardioplegic Solution .
It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cardioplegic Solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of differences in structure , function , and metabolism , clinical myocardial protection strategies and Cardioplegia solutions that are effective in adult hearts may be less effective in the immature heart .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Cardioplegic Solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they responded differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between older and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosage range reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease .
This product is unique in that there is no hepatic or renal excretion and specific adjustments for dosing in the elderly are not known .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Intraoperative and perioperative potential hazards of open heart surgery include myocardial infarction , electrocardiographic abnormalities , and arrhythmias , including ventricular fibrillation .
Spontaneous recovery after cardioplegic cardiac arrest may be delayed or absent when circulation is restored .
Defibrillation by electric shock may be required to restore normal cardiac function .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overzealous instillation of the solution may result in unnecessary dilatation of the myocardial vasculature and leakage into the perivascular myocardium , possibly causing tissue edema ( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The following information is suggested as a guide and is subject to variation according to the preference and experience of the surgeon .
It is required that 10 mL ( 840 mg ) of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP ( 10 mEq each of sodium and bicarbonate ) be added aseptically and thoroughly mixed with each 1000 mL of cardioplegic solution to adjust pH . Use 10 mL of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP , to achieve the approximate pH of 7 . 8 when measured at room temperature .
Use of any other Sodium Bicarbonate Injection may not achieve this pH due to the varying pH ' s of Sodium Bicarbonate Injections .
Due to its inherent instability with other components , sodium bicarbonate must be added just prior to administration .
After this addition , the solution must be used within 24 hours .
The solution should be cooled to 4 ° C prior to use .
Following institution of cardiopulmonary bypass at perfusate temperatures of 28 ° to 30 ° C , and after cross - clamping of the ascending aorta , the buffered solution is administered by rapid infusion into the aortic root .
The initial rate of infusion may be 300 mL / m2 / minute ( about 540 mL / min in a 5 ' 8 " , 70 kg adult with 1 . 8 square meters of surface area ) given for a period of two to four minutes .
Concurrent external cooling ( regional hypothermia of the pericardium ) may be accomplished by instilling a refrigerated ( 4 ° C ) physiologic solution such as Normosol ® - R ( balanced electrolyte replacement solution ) or Ringer ' s Injection , USP into the chest cavity .
Should myocardial electromechanical activity persist or recur , the solution may be reinfused at a rate of 300 mL / m2 / min for a period of two minutes .
Reinfusion of the solution may be repeated every 20 to 30 minutes or sooner if myocardial temperature rises above 15 ° to 20 ° C or returning cardiac activity is observed .
The regional hypothermia solution around the heart also may be replenished continuously or periodically in order to maintain adequate hypothermia .
Suction may be used to remove warmed infusates .
An implanted thermistor probe may be used to monitor myocardial temperature .
The volumes of solution instilled into the aortic root may vary depending on the duration or type of open heart surgical procedure .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Flexible Plastic Container ( freeflex ® bag ) Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
The intact port cap provides visual tamper evidence .
Do not use if port cap is prematurely removed .
Maintain strict aseptic technique during handling .
To Open • Always inspect the solution container before and after removal from the overwrap .
• Place the solution container on a clean , flat surface .
Remove the solution container from the overwrap .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , discard .
To add 10 mL of 8 . 4 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP , and if other supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
To Add Medication • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward solution container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port .
• Using aseptic technique , insert needle ( 18 to 23 gauge ) through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix solution container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) • Close the flow control clamp of the administration set .
• Immediately before inserting the administration set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from solution container .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port , twist and push the spike until the spike is fully inserted .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
• The BLUE infusion port contains a selfsealing septum that helps prevent leakage after removing the spike .
The infusion port is not intended to be spiked more than once .
• Suspend solution container from hanger hole .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Attach aortic infusion device to set .
• Open flow control clamp to expel air from set and aortic infusion device .
Close clamp .
• Position aortic infusion device to introduce solution into aortic root .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
• For Single use Only .
Discard unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED Cardioplegic Solution is supplied ( without sodium bicarbonate ) in a single - dose 1000 mL freeflex ® plastic container as follows : Product Code Unit of Use Unit of Sale 258810 NDC 65219 - 258 - 01 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag NDC 65219 - 258 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 Made in Germany 451744 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us Issued : April 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Cardioplegic Solution for Cardiac Perfusion 1000 mL Bag Label NDC 65219 - 258 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 mL CARDIOPLEGIC SOLUTION For Cardiac Perfusion WARNING : NOT FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Cardioplegic Solution Additive Label 1000 mL NDC 65219 - 258 - 01 Additive Label Cardioplegic Solution WARNING : NOT FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
