RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions , Alveolar Hemorrhage ( 5 . 12 ) 03 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GRANIX is indicated to reduce the duration of severe neutropenia in adult and pediatric patients 1 month and older with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anticancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia .
GRANIX ( tbo - filgrastim ) is a leukocyte growth factor indicated in adult and pediatric patients 1 month and older for reduction in the duration of severe neutropenia in patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti - cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose : 5 mcg / kg per day administered as a subcutaneous injection .
• Administer the first dose no earlier than 24 hours following myelosuppressive chemotherapy .
Do not administer within 24 hours prior to chemotherapy ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage The recommended dose of GRANIX is 5 mcg / kg per day administered as a subcutaneous injection .
Administer the first dose of GRANIX no earlier than 24 hours following myelosuppressive chemotherapy .
Do not administer GRANIX within 24 hours prior to chemotherapy .
Daily dosing with GRANIX should continue until the expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range .
Monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) prior to chemotherapy and twice per week until recovery .
2 . 2 General Considerations for Administration GRANIX may be administered by either a healthcare professional , a patient or caregiver .
Before a decision is made to allow GRANIX to be administered by a patient or caregiver , ensure that the patient is an appropriate candidate for self - administration or administration by a caregiver .
Proper training on storage , preparation , and administration technique should be provided .
If a patient or caregiver is not an appropriate candidate for any reason , then in such patients , GRANIX should be administered by a healthcare professional .
Dispense only the pre - filled syringe without a safety needle guard device to patient or caregiver .
Instruct patients and caregivers to follow the Instructions for Use provided with the GRANIX prefilled syringe to properly administer an injection after training by a healthcare professional .
Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not administer GRANIX if discoloration or particulates are observed .
The prefilled syringe and vial are for single - dose only .
Discard unused portions .
GRANIX and all its components are not made with natural rubber latex .
Recommended sites for subcutaneous GRANIX injections include the abdomen ( except for the two - inch area around the navel ) , the front of the middle thighs , the upper outer areas of the buttocks , or the upper back portion of the upper arms .
The injection site should be varied daily .
GRANIX should not be injected into an area that is tender , red , bruised , or hard , or that has scars or stretch marks .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use of the Safety Needle Guard Device by Healthcare Professionals Hold the syringe assembly by the open sides of the device and remove the needle shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Expel any extra volume depending on dose needed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inject GRANIX subcutaneously as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Push the plunger as far as it will go to inject all the medication .
Injection of the entire prefilled syringe contents is necessary to activate the needle guard .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] With the plunger still pressed all the way down , remove the needle from the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Slowly let go of the plunger and allow the empty syringe to move up inside the device until the entire needle is guarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Discard the syringe assembly in approved containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GRANIX is a clear , colorless , preservative - free solution available as : Prefilled Syringe : Injection : 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL ( 600 mcg / mL ) solution in single - dose prefilled syringe Injection : 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL ( 600 mcg / mL ) solution in single - dose prefilled syringe Vial : Injection : 300 mcg / 1 mL solution in single - dose vial Injection : 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL ( 300 mcg / mL ) solution in single - dose vial Prefilled Syringe • Injection : 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL solution in single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) • Injection : 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL solution in single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) Vial • Injection : 300 mcg / 1 mL solution in single - dose vials ( 3 ) • Injection : 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL solution in single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS GRANIX is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to filgrastim products or pegfilgrastim products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to filgrastim products or pegfilgrastim products .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fatal Splenic Rupture : Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture .
( 5 . 1 ) • Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) : Monitor for and manage immediately .
Discontinue GRANIX if suspected ( 5 . 2 ) • Serious Allergic Reactions Including Anaphylaxis : Permanently discontinue GRANIX in patients with serious allergic reactions ( 5 . 3 ) • Sickle Cell Disorders : Severe and sometimes fatal crisis can occur .
Discontinue GRANIX if suspected ( 5 . 4 ) • Glomerulonephritis : Evaluate and consider dose - reduction or interruption of GRANIX if causality is likely ( 5 . 5 ) • Capillary Leak Syndrome : Monitor if symptoms develop and administer standard symptomatic treatment ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Fatal Splenic Rupture Splenic rupture , including fatal cases , can occur following administration of filgrastim products .
Evaluate patients who report upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture .
Discontinue GRANIX if splenic rupture is suspected or confirmed .
5 . 2 Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) can occur in patients receiving filgrastim products .
Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress after receiving GRANIX , for ARDS .
Discontinue GRANIX in patients with ARDS .
5 . 3 Serious Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , can occur in patients receiving GRANIX .
Reactions can occur on initial exposure .
The administration of antihistamines ‚ steroids ‚ bronchodilators ‚ and / or epinephrine may reduce the severity of the reactions .
Permanently discontinue GRANIX in patients with serious allergic reactions .
Do not administer GRANIX to patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to filgrastim or pegfilgrastim .
5 . 4 Sickle Cell Disorders Severe and sometimes fatal sickle cell crises can occur in patients with sickle cell disorders receiving filgrastim products .
Discontinue GRANIX if sickle cell crisis occurs .
5 . 5 Glomerulonephritis Glomerulonephritis can occur in patients receiving filgrastim products .
The diagnoses were based on azotemia , hematuria ( microscopic and macroscopic ) , proteinuria , and renal biopsy .
Generally , events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or discontinuation of the filgrastim product .
If glomerulonephritis is suspected , evaluate for cause .
If causality is likely , consider dose reduction or interruption of GRANIX .
5 . 6 Capillary Leak Syndrome Capillary leak syndrome ( CLS ) can occur in patients receiving filgrastim products and is characterized by hypotension , hypoalbuminemia , edema and hemoconcentration .
Episodes vary in frequency , severity and may be life - threatening if treatment is delayed .
Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment , which may include a need for intensive care .
5 . 7 Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells The granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G ‑ CSF ) receptor through which GRANIX acts has been found on tumor cell lines .
The possibility that GRANIX acts as a growth factor for any tumor type , including myeloid malignancies and myelodysplasia , diseases for which GRANIX is not approved , cannot be excluded .
5 . 8 Leukocytosis White blood cell counts of 100 ‚ 000 / mm3 or greater were observed in approximately 2 % of patients receiving filgrastim products at dosages above 5 mcg / kg / day .
In patients with cancer receiving GRANIX as an adjunct to myelosuppressive chemotherapy ‚ to avoid the potential risks of excessive leukocytosis ‚ it is recommended that GRANIX therapy be discontinued if the ANC surpasses 10 ‚ 000 / mm3 after the chemotherapy - induced ANC nadir has occurred .
Monitor CBCs at least twice weekly during therapy .
Dosages of GRANIX that increase the ANC beyond 10 ‚ 000 / mm3 may not result in any additional clinical benefit .
In patients with cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy ‚ discontinuation of filgrastim products therapy usually resulted in a 50 % decrease in circulating neutrophils within 1 to 2 days ‚ with a return to pretreatment levels in 1 to 7 days .
5 . 9 Simultaneous Use with Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy Not Recommended The safety and efficacy of filgrastim products , including GRANIX , given simultaneously with cytotoxic chemotherapy have not been established .
Because of the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy ‚ do not use GRANIX in the period 24 hours before through 24 hours after the administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of GRANIX have not been evaluated in patients receiving concurrent radiation therapy .
Avoid the simultaneous use of GRANIX with chemotherapy and radiation therapy .
5 . 10 Nuclear Imaging Increased hematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been associated with transient positive bone - imaging changes .
Consider this when interpreting bone - imaging results .
5 . 11 Aortitis Aortitis has been reported in patients receiving another filgrastim product .
It may occur as early as the first week after start of therapy .
Manifestations may include generalized signs and symptoms such as fever , abdominal pain , malaise , back pain , and increased inflammatory markers ( e . g . , c ‑ reactive protein and white blood cell count ) .
Consider aortitis in patients who develop these signs and symptoms without known etiology .
Discontinue GRANIX if aortitis is suspected .
5 . 12 Alveolar Hemorrhage Alveolar hemorrhage manifesting as pulmonary infiltrates and hemoptysis requiring hospitalization has been reported in healthy donors undergoing peripheral blood progenitor cell ( PBPC ) collection treated with another filgrastim product .
Hemoptysis resolved with discontinuation of filgrastim .
The use of GRANIX for PBPC mobilization in healthy donors is not an approved indication .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following potential serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Fatal Splenic Rupture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Serious Allergic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Sickle Cell Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Glomerulonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Capillary Leak Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Leukocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Simultaneous Use with Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy Not Recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Aortitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Most common adverse reaction ( ≥ 1 % ) to GRANIX is bone pain ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1 ‑ 866 - 832 - 8537 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Adverse Reactions in Adult Patients GRANIX clinical trials safety data are based upon the results of three randomized clinical trials in patients receiving myeloablative chemotherapy for breast cancer ( N = 348 ) , lung cancer ( N = 240 ) and non - Hodgkin ’ s lymphoma ( N = 92 ) .
In the breast cancer study , 99 % of patients were female , the median age was 50 years , and 86 % of patients were Caucasian .
In the lung cancer study , 80 % of patients were male , the median age was 58 years , and 95 % of patients were Caucasian .
In the non - Hodgkin ’ s lymphoma study , 52 % of patients were male , the median age was 55 years , and 88 % of patients were Caucasian .
In all three studies a placebo ( Cycle 1 of the breast cancer study only ) or a non - US - approved filgrastim product were used as controls .
Both GRANIX and the non - US - approved filgrastim product were administered at 5 mcg / kg subcutaneously once daily beginning one day after chemotherapy for at least five days and continued to a maximum of 14 days or until an ANC of ≥ 10 , 000 x 106 / L after nadir was reached .
Bone pain was the most frequent treatment - emergent adverse reaction that occurred in at least 1 % or greater in patients treated with GRANIX at the recommended dose and was numerically two times more frequent than in the placebo group .
The overall incidence of bone pain in Cycle 1 of treatment was 3 . 4 % ( 3 . 4 % GRANIX , 1 . 4 % placebo , 7 . 5 % non - US - approved filgrastim product ) .
Leukocytosis In clinical studies , leukocytosis ( WBC counts > 100 , 000 x 106 / L ) was observed in less than 1 % patients with non - myeloid malignancies receiving GRANIX .
No complications attributable to leukocytosis were reported in clinical studies .
Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions known to occur following administration of filgrastim products include myalgia , headache , vomiting , cutaneous vasculitis and thrombocytopenia .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients GRANIX clinical trials safety data in pediatric patients are based upon the results of one single - arm clinical trial in 50 pediatric patients who received myelosuppressive chemotherapy for treatment of solid tumors without marrow involvement [ see Use in Special Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
In this study , GRANIX was administered at 5 mcg / kg subcutaneously once daily beginning one day after chemotherapy .
The most common ( > 5 % ) adverse reactions included thrombocytopenia ( 34 % ) , pyrexia ( 8 % ) , pain in extremity ( 6 % ) , headache ( 6 % ) and diarrhea ( 6 % ) .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay , and the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to GRANIX with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
Binding antibodies to GRANIX were detected using a validated bridging immunoassay .
Anti - drug antibodies to tbo - filgrastim occurred in 1 . 4 % of 486 adult and pediatric patients .
None of these patients had cross - reactive antibodies to the native G - CSF .
All antibody responses were transient and of low titers .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of GRANIX .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Sweet ’ s syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) , asthenia , diarrhea , and fatigue 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS GRANIX should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited published data on filgrastim product use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of tbo - filgrastim to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis resulted in increased spontaneous abortion and fetal malformations at systemic exposures 50 - 90 times the human exposure expected at the recommended human dose ( see Data ) .
GRANIX should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population ( s ) are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal developmental study , pregnant rabbits were administered subcutaneous doses of tbo - filgrastim during the period of organogenesis at 1 , 10 and 100 mcg / kg / day .
Increased abortions were evident in rabbits treated with tbo - filgrastim at 100 mcg / kg / day .
This dose was maternally toxic as demonstrated by reduced body weight .
Other embryofetal findings at this dose level consisted of post - implantation loss ‚ decrease in mean live litter size and fetal weight , and fetal malformations such as malformed hind limbs and cleft palate .
The dose of 100 mcg / kg / day corresponds to a systemic exposure ( AUC ) of approximately 50 - 90 times the exposures observed in patients treated with the clinical tbo - filgrastim dose of 5 mcg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation No data are available regarding the presence of tbo - filgrastim in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed child , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Another filgrastim product was detected in human milk for up to 3 days after filgrastim administration .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of GRANIX have been established for pediatric patients 1 month to < 17 years old ( no data for the age group < 1 month old ) .
Use of GRANIX in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of GRANIX in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] with additional safety and pharmacokinetics data from a single - arm trial of 50 pediatric patients with solid tumors treated with GRANIX for chemotherapy - induced neutropenia .
The 50 pediatric patients had a median age of 9 . 2 years ( range , 1 . 4 - 15 . 9 years ) ; 2 were infants ( 1 month to < 2 years old ) , 30 were children ( 2 to < 12 years old ) , and 18 were adolescents ( 12 to < 17 years old ) .
The pharmacokinetics and safety profile of GRANIX in the pediatric population were similar to those seen in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Among 677 cancer patients enrolled in clinical trials of GRANIX , a total of 111 patients were 65 years of age and older , and 14 patients were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients age 65 and older and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION GRANIX ( tbo - filgrastim ) is a non - glycosylated recombinant methionyl human granulocyte colony - stimulating growth factor ( r - metHuG - CSF ) manufactured by recombinant DNA technology using the bacterium strain E coli K802 .
It has a molecular weight of approximately 18 . 8 kDa and is composed of 175 amino acids .
The endogenous human G - CSF is glycosylated and does not have the additional methionine amino acid residue in its NH2 terminal end .
The product is a sterile , clear , colorless , preservative - free solution containing tbo - filgrastim , glacial acetic acid , sorbitol , polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide , and Water for Injection .
The product is available in single - dose prefilled syringes that contain either 300 mcg or 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim at a fill volume of 0 . 5 mL or 0 . 8 mL , respectively and single - dose vials that contain either 300 mcg or 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim at a fill volume of 1 mL or 1 . 6 mL , respectively .
See table below for product composition of each presentation .
Product Composition 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL Syringe 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL Syringe 300 mcg / 1 mL Vial 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL Vial Tbo - filgrastim 300 mcg 480 mcg 300 mcg 480 mcg Glacial Acetic Acid 0 . 3 mg 0 . 48 mg 0 . 6 mg 0 . 96 mg Polysorbate 80 0 . 0275 mg 0 . 044 mg 0 . 055 mg 0 . 088 mg Sorbitol 25 mg 40 mg 50 mg 80 mg Sodium Hydroxide q . s . to pH 4 . 2 q . s . to pH 4 . 2 q . s . to pH 4 . 2 q . s . to pH 4 . 2 Water for Injection q . s . to 0 . 5 mL q . s . to 0 . 8 mL q . s . to 1 . 0 mL q . s . to 1 . 6 mL q . s . = quantity sufficient to make 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tbo - filgrastim is a human granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ( G - CSF ) produced by recombinant DNA technology .
Tbo - filgrastim binds to G - CSF receptors and stimulates proliferation of neutrophils .
G - CSF is known to stimulate differentiation commitment and some end - cell functional activation , which increases neutrophil counts and activity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The time to the maximum ANC level was between 3 to 5 days and returned to baseline by 21 days following completion of chemotherapy .
Doubling the tbo - filgrastim subcutaneous dose from 5 mcg / kg to 10 mcg / kg resulted in a 16 % to 19 % increase in the maximum ANC level and a 33 % to 36 % increase in the area under the effect curve for ANC .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At an intravenous dose of 5 mcg / kg , tbo - filgrastim did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Tbo - filgrastim exhibits nonlinear pharmacokinetics .
Increasing the dose of subcutaneous GRANIX from 5 to 10 mcg / kg resulted in an approximate 2 . 5 - fold increase in the maximum serum concentration ( Cmax ) and 3 . 0 - fold increase in the area under the curve ( AUC ) .
In adult patients enrolled across three studies , subcutaneous GRANIX 5 mcg / kg resulted in median time to maximal serum tbo - filgrastim concentrations ( Tmax ) within 4 to 6 hours .
Geometric mean [ coefficient of variation ( CV % ) ] serum Cmax was 20 to 31 ng / mL [ 24 % to 65 % ] within 4 to 6 hours .
Geometric mean serum tbo - filgrastim area under the curve ( AUC0 - 12 h ) ranged from 151 to 227 ng / mL * h [ 24 % - 60 % ] .
No accumulation in serum tbo - filgrastim concentrations was observed after multiple dosing .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of 5 mcg / kg subcutaneous tbo - filgrastim was 33 % .
Metabolism / Elimination Tbo - filgrastim clearance is primarily dependent on G - CSF receptor - mediated clearance which can be saturated by high serum concentrations of tbo - filgrastim and diminished in neutropenia .
The median serum elimination half - life of tbo - filgrastim ( 5 mcg / kg sc ) was 3 . 0 to 3 . 5 hours .
Specific Populations No sex - related differences were observed .
Pediatric Patients : The geometric mean [ coefficient of variation ( CV % ) ] of Cmax was 18 ng / mL ( 56 % ) and AUC0 - 12 h was 130 ng * hr / mL ( 52 % ) following subcutaneous administration of GRANIX 5 mcg / kg in 49 pediatric patients ( 1 . 4 to 15 . 9 years ) after chemotherapy .
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of GRANIX were observed between infants , children and adolescents .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 60 to 89 mL / min by Cockcroft - Gault ) had no effect on tbo - filgrastim pharmacokinetics .
The pharmacokinetics in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment has not been studied .
The pharmacokinetics in patients with hepatic impairment has not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and genetic toxicology studies have not been conducted with tbo - filgrastim .
A fertility study was not conducted with tbo - filgrastim .
Toxicology studies of up to 26 weeks in rats or monkeys did not reveal findings in male or female reproductive organs that would suggest impairment of fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of GRANIX was evaluated in a multinational , multicenter , randomized and controlled Phase 3 study in 348 chemotherapy - naive patients with high - risk stage II , stage III , or stage IV breast cancer receiving doxorubicin ( 60 mg / m2 ) and docetaxel ( 75 mg / m2 ) comparing GRANIX to placebo and a non - US - approved filgrastim product as controls .
The median age of the patients was 50 years ( range 25 to75 years ) with 99 % female and 86 % Caucasian .
GRANIX , placebo , and the non - US - approved filgrastim product were administered at 5 mcg / kg subcutaneously once daily beginning one day after chemotherapy for at least five days and continued to a maximum of 14 days or until an ANC of ≥ 10 , 000 x 106 / L after nadir was reached .
GRANIX was superior to placebo in duration of severe neutropenia ( DSN ) with a statistically significant reduction in DSN ( 1 . 1 days vs . 3 . 8 days , p < 0 . 0001 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING GRANIX solution for injection is supplied as a single - dose , preservative - free clear solution , in either a vial or , a prefilled syringe made from Type I glass which has a permanently attached stainless steel needle .
The active substance is tbo - filgrastim .
Prefilled Syringes ( UltraSafe Passive ® Needle Guard ) GRANIX 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL : Each prefilled syringe contains 300 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 0 . 5 mL solution with a blue plunger in : • Pack of 1 with a safety needle guard in blister : NDC 63459 - 910 - 11 • Packs of 10 with a safety needle guard in blisters : NDC 63459 - 910 - 15 GRANIX 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL : Each prefilled syringe contains 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 0 . 8 mL solution with a clear plunger in : • Pack of 1 with a safety needle guard in blister : NDC 63459 - 912 - 11 • Packs of 10 with a safety needle guard in blisters : NDC 63459 - 912 - 15 Prefilled Syringes GRANIX 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL : Each prefilled syringe contains 300 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 0 . 5 mL solution with a blue plunger in : • Pack of 1 without a safety needle guard ( for patients and caregivers ) : NDC 63459 - 910 - 17 • Packs of 5 without a safety needle guard ( for patients and caregivers ) : NDC 63459 - 910 - 36 GRANIX 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL : Each prefilled syringe contains 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 0 . 8 mL solution with a clear plunger in : • Pack of 1 without a safety needle guard ( for patients and caregivers ) : NDC 63459 - 912 - 17 • Packs of 5 without a safety needle guard ( for patients and caregivers ) : NDC 63459 - 912 - 36 Vials GRANIX 300 mcg / 1 mL : Each vial contains 300 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 1 mL solution .
• Packs of 10 single - dose vials : ( NDC 63459 - 918 - 59 ) GRANIX 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL : Each vial contains 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 1 . 6 mL solution .
• Packs of 10 single - dose vials : ( NDC 63459 - 920 - 59 ) GRANIX and all its components are not made with natural rubber latex [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Store GRANIX in a refrigerator at 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
Within its shelf life , the product may be removed from 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) storage for a single period of up to 5 days between 73 ° to 81 ° F ( 23 ° to 27 ° C ) .
If not used within 5 days , the product may be returned to 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) up to the expiration date .
Dispose of syringes if stored at room temperature for more than 5 days .
Avoid shaking .
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use .
Only clear solutions without particles should be used .
Exposure to 23 ° to 30 ° F ( - 1 ° to - 5 ° C ) for up to 72 hours and temperatures as low as 5 ° to - 13 ° F ( - 15 ° to - 25 ° C ) for up to 24 hours do not adversely affect the stability of GRANIX .
Single - dose syringe and single - dose vial – discard unused portion .
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements .
If GRANIX gets on the skin , wash the area with soap and water .
If GRANIX gets in the eyes , thoroughly flush the exposed eye / eyes with water .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Availability of Patient Information and Instructions for Use Advise all patients and / or caregivers to read the FDA - approved Patient Information .
For patients that are candidates for self - administration , assist patients and caregivers in understanding the contents of the Patient Information as well as the GRANIX Instructions for Use that are included with the product , and give them the opportunity to ask questions prior to initiating therapy .
Patient Training Once it is determined that a patient is an appropriate candidate for self - administration or administration by a caregiver , instruct the patient or caregivers on the proper storage , preparation , and administration technique for GRANIX .
Patients should be advised not to skip or change their dose or stop taking GRANIX without talking to their healthcare provider first .
Advise the patients to read the FDA - approved Patient Information and Instructions for Use for further information .
Bone Pain Bone pain is common .
Analgesics such as acetaminophen or NSAIDS may be necessary [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Rupture or Enlargement of Spleen Rupture or enlargement of the spleen may occur , which may be signaled by abdominal pain , left upper quadrant pain , or left shoulder pain .
Advise patients to report onset of pain in these areas to their doctor immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dyspnea Dyspnea with or without fever , progressing to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome , may occur .
Advise patients to report dyspnea immediately to their doctor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , rash , and urticaria : Patients should report such reactions immediately to their doctor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Sickle Cell Disorders In patients with sickle cell disorders , sickle cell crisis and death has occurred .
Discuss the potential risks and benefits for patients with sickle cell disorders prior to the administration of GRANIX [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Glomerulonephritis Symptoms may include swelling of the face or ankles , dark colored urine or blood in the urine , or a decrease in urine production .
Advise patients to report signs or symptoms of glomerulonephritis to their physician immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Infections GRANIX is used in circumstances where the risk of infection is increased .
Patients should be alert for signs of infection such as fever , redness or swelling , and should report these findings to their doctor immediately .
Pregnancy Inform patients not to become pregnant while receiving GRANIX .
If pregnancy occurs , advise patients of the possibility of fetal harm [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Inform lactating women that filgrastim was detected in breast milk for up to 3 days after dosing [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
See FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) and Instructions for Use .
TBO - 009 [ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2014 - 2019 Cephalon , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
All rights reserved .
Manufactured by : UAB Teva Baltics Vilnius , Lithuania U . S . License No . 1803 Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Product of Israel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information GRANIX ( GRAN - icks ) ( tbo - filgrastim ) injection , for subcutaneous use What is GRANIX ? GRANIX is a prescription medicine : • used in people with certain types of cancer ( non - myeloid malignancies ) , who are receiving chemotherapy that affects the bone marrow • given to help decrease the length of time that the number of certain white blood cells ( neutrophils ) are very low ( severe neutropenia ) .
Neutrophils are white blood cells that are important in fighting bacterial infections .
It is not known if GRANIX is safe and effective in children younger than 1 month of age .
Do not take GRANIX if you have had a serious allergic reaction to filgrastim products or pegfligrastim products .
Before you receive GRANIX , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a sickle cell disorder • have kidney problems • plan to have bone scans or tests • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if GRANIX will harm your unborn baby .
You should not become pregnant during treatment with GRANIX .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if GRANIX passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive GRANIX ?
• GRANIX is given by an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous ) by a healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider may decide injections can be given at home by you or your caregiver .
If GRANIX is given at home , see the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” that comes with your GRANIX for information on how to prepare and inject a dose of GRANIX .
• Your healthcare provider will show you and your caregiver how to prepare and inject GRANIX before you use it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much GRANIX to inject and when to inject it .
Do not stop using GRANIX or change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• GRANIX injections are usually given 1 time each day until your white blood cell count returns to normal .
• Your first dose of GRANIX is given at least 24 hours after you receive your chemotherapy .
• Do not inject GRANIX within 24 hours before your next dose of chemotherapy .
• Your healthcare provider will test your blood before your chemotherapy and during treatment with GRANIX .
• If GRANIX gets on your skin or your caregiver ’ s skin , wash the area with soap and water .
• If GRANIX gets in your eyes or your caregiver ’ s eyes , flush the eyes well with water .
What are the possible side effects of GRANIX ? GRANIX can cause serious side effects , including : • Spleen rupture .
Your spleen may become enlarged and can rupture .
A ruptured spleen can cause death .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in your left upper stomach ( abdomen ) - area or your left shoulder during treatment with GRANIX .
• A serious lung problem called acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if you have shortness of breath with or without fever , trouble breathing , or a fast rate of breathing .
• Serious allergic reactions .
GRANIX can cause serious allergic reactions .
These reactions can cause a rash over your whole body , shortness of breath , wheezing , dizziness , swelling around your mouth or eyes , fast heart rate , and sweating .
If you have any of these symptoms , stop using GRANIX and call your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away .
• Sickle cell crisis .
You may have a serious sickle cell crisis if you have a sickle cell disorder and use GRANIX .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms of sickle cell crisis such as pain or difficulty breathing .
• Kidney injury ( glomerulonephritis ) .
GRANIX can cause kidney injury .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling of your face or ankles • blood in your urine or dark colored urine • you urinate less than usual • Capillary Leak Syndrome .
GRANIX can cause fluid to leak from blood vessels into your body ’ s tissues .
This condition is called “ Capillary Leak Syndrome ” ( CLS ) .
CLS can quickly cause you to have symptoms that may become life - threatening .
Get emergency medical help right away if you develop any of the following symptoms : • swelling or puffiness and are urinating less than usual • trouble breathing • swelling of your stomach - area ( abdomen ) and feeling of fullness • dizziness or feeling faint • a general feeling of tiredness • Inflammation of the aorta ( aortitis ) .
Inflammation of the aorta ( the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body ) has been reported in patients who received another filgrastim product .
Symptoms may include fever , abdominal pain , feeling tired , and back pain .
Call your healthcare provider if you experience these symptoms .
Your healthcare provider may decrease your dose , temporarily stop , or permanently stop treatment with GRANIX if you have certain side effects .
The most common side effect of GRANIX is bone pain .
Other possible side effects of other filgrastim products that may also happen with GRANIX may include muscle aches ( myalgia ) , headache , weakness , diarrhea , fatigue , vomiting , inflamed blood vessels in the skin ( cutaneous vasculitis ) , low platelet count ( thrombocytopenia ) , and Sweet ’ s syndrome ( a rare skin condition that mainly includes fever and painful skin lesions that appear mostly on the arms , neck , head and trunk ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of GRANIX .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GRANIX ?
• Store GRANIX in the refrigerator between 36 ˚ F to 46 ˚ F ( 2 ˚ C to 8 ˚ C ) .
• Keep GRANIX way from light to protect it .
If your GRANIX prefilled syringe or vial comes in a carton , keep it in the carton until you are ready to use it , to protect from light .
• Do not shake .
• Take GRANIX out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• GRANIX can be left at room temperature for up to 5 days .
If not used within 5 days , return GRANIX back to the refrigerator .
Throw away ( dispose of ) GRANIX that has been left at room temperature for more than 5 days .
• After you inject your dose , throw away ( dispose of ) any unused GRANIX left in the syringe or the vial .
Do not save unused GRANIX in the syringe or vial for later use .
Keep GRANIX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of GRANIXMedicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use GRANIX for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GRANIX to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about GRANIX that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in GRANIX ? Active ingredient : tbo - filgrastim Inactive ingredients : glacial acetic acid , polysorbate 80 , sorbitol , sodium hydroxide , and Water for Injection Manufactured by : UAB Teva Baltics Vilnius , Lithuania U . S . License No . 1803 Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Product of Israel [ MULTIMEDIA ] TBOPL - 007 © 2014 - 2019 Cephalon , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
All rights reserved .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 896 - 5855 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 11 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use - Syringe GRANIX ( GRAN - icks ) ( tbo - filgrastim ) injection , for subcutaneous use Important : Keep the GRANIX syringe out of the reach of children .
About the GRANIX syringe Depending on the prescription that your healthcare provider gave you , you will receive a syringe that provides a dose of either 0 . 1 mL to 0 . 5 mL or 0 . 1 mL to 0 . 8 mL .
If you are prescribed a dose over 0 . 8 mL , two syringes will be required to reach your prescribed dose .
Your healthcare provider will determine how many syringes and the correct dose in milliliters ( mL ) you will need to give based on your body weight .
You should continue to give GRANIX daily until your healthcare provider informs you that your white blood cell count has returned to normal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure you understand the following : • How to store your syringes .
• How to read the syringe markings .
• How to adjust the amount of GRANIX in the syringe for your prescribed dose .
• How to prepare and give the injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not shake syringes .
Do not remove the needle cap until you are ready to inject .
Do not re - use a syringe .
The syringe is for single - use only .
Your first dose of GRANIX is given at least 24 hours after you receive your chemotherapy .
Do not inject GRANIX within 24 hours before your next dose of chemotherapy .
Dosing schedule Inject your total daily dose 1 time each day as prescribed by your healthcare provider , starting at least 24 hours ( 1 day ) after the end of your chemotherapy cycle .
You should continue to give GRANIX daily until your white blood cell count returns to normal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to store your GRANIX syringes • Store GRANIX in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Store GRANIX in the original carton to protect it from light .
• Do not shake .
• Take GRANIX out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• GRANIX syringes can be left at room temperature for a single period of up to 5 days , and if not used can be returned to the refrigerator .
Throw away ( dispose of ) any GRANIX syringes that have been left at room temperature for more than 5 days .
• After you inject your dose , throw away ( dispose of ) any unused GRANIX left in the syringe .
Do not save unused GRANIX in the syringe for later use .
Keep GRANIX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Determining how many syringes you need for your daily dose • If your prescribed daily dose is 0 . 5 mL or less , use 1 syringe .
• If your prescribed daily dose is 0 . 8 mL or less , use 1 syringe .
• If your prescribed daily dose is more than 0 . 8 mL you will need to prepare 2 syringes in order to match your prescribed dose : • Adjust your first syringe to 0 . 8 mL .
• Adjust your second syringe to the additional amount required to make up your total prescribed dose .
• Make sure the amounts in both syringes add up to your prescribed dose ( See the table to the right to determine how much medicine should be in each syringe ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For example : If your prescribed dose is 1 mL you would prepare 1 syringe with 0 . 8 mL and a second syringe with 0 . 2 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : When using two syringes always adjust the first syringe to 0 . 8 mL .
How to read the syringe markings What the markings on the syringe mean : The syringe is labeled in 0 . 1 mL unit increments from 0 . 1 mL to 0 . 8 mL .
There is a line next to each 0 . 1 mL unit increment .
To read the dose scale always hold the syringe with the needle - end facing up so that 0 . 1 mL is at the top and 0 . 8 mL is at the bottom .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to adjust the medicine level for your prescribed dose • When setting your dose , ( See 2 C ) you will line up the top edge of the grey rubber stopper with the line on the syringe scale that matches your prescribed dose .
• Note : The top edge of the grey rubber stopper is the edge directly below the dome at the top of the stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use the top of the cone or the middle or lower edges of the grey stopper to measure your dose .
Injection procedure ( follow the steps below for each day of dosing ) 1 .
Prepare for injection 1 A Each time you inject a dose gather the following supplies : • GRANIX syringe ( s ) • Alcohol swabs • Paper towel • Cotton ball or gauze • Bandage ( optional ) • Sharps container ( hard - walled container for discarding syringes ) Note : GRANIX and all of the parts of the prefilled syringe do not contain natural rubber latex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 B Take the carton with the syringe ( s ) out of the refrigerator [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 C Check the label and the expiration date on the side of the carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Do not inject if : • “ GRANIX ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) ” is not listed on the carton .
• The expiration date on the syringe label has passed .
1 D Remove the syringe ( s ) from the carton Open the carton by breaking the tamper proof seal and lifting the lid .
Remove the number of syringes required for your daily dose by grasping each at the middle of the syringe body .
After removing your required number of syringes , place the carton back in the refrigerator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 E Look carefully at the syringe ( s ) and the medicine Hold the syringe body and check to make sure it is not damaged .
Inspect the medicine in the syringe .
GRANIX should be a clear liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Do not inject if : • GRANIX ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) is not listed on the syringe label .
• The medicine is cloudy , discolored , or foamy .
• The medicine contains lumps , flakes , or particles .
1 F Wait 30 minutes for the syringe ( s ) to warm to room temperature Wait 30 minutes for GRANIX to naturally warm to room temperature .
This will provide a more comfortable injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 G Wash your hands When ready to inject , wash your hands with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly with a clean towel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 H Choose an injection site The recommended injection sites are : If you are self - injecting : Stomach - area ( abdomen ) : Except for a 2 - inch area around the navel ( belly button ) .
Thighs : Top or middle area of thighs .
If a caregiver is injecting GRANIX for you : Arms : Fleshy areas on upper , back part of the arm .
Upper hip or buttock : Fleshy areas around the back of the upper hips and upper sides of the buttocks .
If 2 injections will be performed , then the second injection should be at least 1 inch away from the first injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not inject into areas that are tender , red , bruised , hard , or have scars or stretch marks .
Important : • You should select a different injection site each time you give yourself an injection .
• If you want to use the same injection site for a dose requiring 2 injections , make sure the second injection site is at least 1 inch away from the first injection site .
1 I Clean the injection site using an alcohol swab Allow site to dry for 5 - 10 seconds to avoid stinging .
If giving 2 injections , then the distance between the 2 injection sites should be at least 1 inch apart .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not touch or blow on site after cleaning .
2 .
Adjust medicine level for your prescribed dose 2 A Remove the needle cap from the syringe Place a paper towel on the table .
To remove the needle cap , hold the body of the syringe firmly with 1 hand ( with the needle facing away from you ) .
Pull the needle cap straight off , extending your hand away from the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : Throw away the needle cap in a sharps container .
Do not recap the needle now or after the injection .
2 B Hold the syringe upright and tap Hold the syringe upright ( needle pointing up ) , as shown .
Gently tap the barrel with your fingers to make sure any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 C Slowly and carefully adjust the medicine level Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up and slightly away from you , as shown .
Make sure you can easily see the syringe markings and numbers .
Holding the plunger as shown , very slowly and carefully push the plunger up until the top edge of the grey rubber stopper is even with the line that corresponds to your prescribed dose .
Note : • If GRANIX gets on your skin , wash your skin with soap and water .
• If GRANIX get in your eyes , flush well with water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : If you accidentally removed too much GRANIX , contact your healthcare provider before giving your injection .
3 .
INJECT MEDICATION 3 A Pinch skin [ MULTIMEDIA ] Use your free hand to firmly pinch the skin you previously cleaned .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 B Insert the needle at a 45 to 90 degree angle Hold the body of the syringe between your thumb and index finger .
Use a quick motion to fully insert the needle straight into the pinched skin at a 45 to 90 degree angle .
When the needle is inserted , you can release the pinched skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not hold or push on the plunger while inserting the needle into the skin .
3 C Push the plunger down injecting all of the GRANIX Use your finger to gently push down on the plunger .
When the plunger head is as far down as it will go , all of the GRANIX has been injected .
When done , gently remove the needle from the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 D Dispose of used syringe Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
3 E Treat the injection site if needed and wash your hands If you see drops of blood at the injection site , you can press a cotton ball or gauze over the injection site for several seconds to stop the bleeding .
Apply bandage , if needed .
When you are finished , wash your hands with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly with a clean towel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Repeat the procedure with the second syringe ( If dose is more than 0 . 8 mL ) If your dose is more than 0 . 8 mL : • Follow instructions 3 A through 3 E for injecting .
• Choose a different site for your second injection .
If you want to use the same part of your body , make sure the second injection site is at least 1 inch away from the first injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : UAB Teva Baltics Vilnius , Lithuania U . S . License No . 1803 Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Product of Israel Revised : 11 / 2019 TBOIFU - 003 [ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2014 - 2019 Cephalon , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
All rights reserved .
GRANIX is a trademark of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use - Vial Instructions for Use GRANIX ( GRAN - icks ) ( tbo - filgrastim ) for subcutaneous injection Single - Dose Vial Important : Read the Prescribing information and Patient Package insert for important information about GRANIX .
Before you use a GRANIX vial , read this important information : • GRANIX vial is supplied as either 300 mcg in 1 . 0 mL solution , or 480 mcg of tbo - filgrastim in 1 . 6 mL solution .
Your healthcare provider will determine which strength of GRANIX to prescribe for you .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the correct number of vials , and the dose in milliliters ( mL ) that you will need to inject based on your body weight .
• When you receive your vials of GRANIX at the pharmacy , check the label to be sure that the dose strength on the vial matches the dose strength that your healthcare provider prescribed for you .
If you are not sure , ask your pharmacist .
• If you are told that more than 1 injection is needed for each dose of GRANIX , the total dose should be divided into two equal parts .
Each of the two parts of your dose should be drawn from a separate vial .
• Your healthcare provider will show you how to measure the correct dose of GRANIX before you try to inject it for the first time .
This dose will be measured in milliliters ( mL ) .
How to store your GRANIX vial • Store GRANIX in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Keep GRANIX vials away from light to protect it .
If your GRANIX vial comes in a carton , keep it in the carton until you are ready to use it to protect from light .
• Do not freeze • Take GRANIX out of the refrigerator 30 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• GRANIX vials can be left at room temperature for a single period of up to 5 days , and if not used can be returned to the refrigerator to use later .
Throw away ( dispose of ) any GRANIX vials that have been left at room temperature for more than 5 days .
• After you inject your dose , properly dispose of any unused GRANIX left in the vial .
Do not save unused GRANIX for later use .
Keep GRANIX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Using your vial • It is important that you do not try to give the injection unless you or your caregiver has received training from your healthcare provider .
• Make sure that the name GRANIX appears on the carton and vial label .
• Check the label and the expiration date on the side of the carton .
Do not use a vial after the expiration date on the label .
• Do not shake the vial .
• Do not use the vial if the medicine is cloudy or discolored , or contains flakes or particles .
Do not inject your first dose of GRANIX until at least 24 hours after you receive your chemotherapy .
You should continue to receive GRANIX daily until your healthcare provider tells you that your white blood cell count has returned to normal .
Do not inject GRANIX less than 24 hours before your next dose of chemotherapy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
FOLLOW THE STEPS BELOW FOR EACH DAY OF DOSING STEP 1 : Prepare Step 1 A : Remove GRANIX from the refrigerator Take the GRANIX ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) carton out of the refrigerator .
Open the carton by lifting the lid and breaking the seal .
Step 1 B : Check the label and the expiration date on the carton • Check to make sure GRANIX ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) ” is listed on the carton • Do not use if the expiration date on the carton has passed Remove the number of vials needed for the daily dose .
Return the carton containing any unused vials to the refrigerator .
Step 1 C : Wait 30 minutes for the vials to reach room temperature .
Place the vials of GRANIX on a clean , well - lit flat work surface for about 30 minutes to warm to room temperature .
This will help to provide a more comfortable injection .
• Do not try to warm the vial by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave • Protect the vial from light • Do not shake the vial • Use a vial only 1 time .
Step 1 D : Inspect the vial Hold each vial and check to make sure it is not damaged .
Inspect the medicine in the vial .
Make sure the medicine in the vial is clear and colorless .
• Check to make sure GRANIX is listed on the vial label .
• Do not use the vial if : • The medicine is cloudy or discolored , or contains flakes or particles .
• The expiration date on the vial label has passed • In these cases , use a new vial and call your healthcare provider .
Step 1 E : Gather the following supplies needed for each injection and place them on your clean work surface ( Figure A ) : • 1 GRANIX vial • 1 disposable syringe and needles • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 cotton balls or gauze pad ( s ) • 1 adhesive Bandage ( s ) , if needed • 1 sharps disposal container [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Only use disposable syringes and needles that your healthcare provider prescribes .
• Only use the syringes and needles 1 time .
Throw away ( dispose of ) any used syringes and needles in a sharps disposal container .
• You should only use syringes that are marked in tenths of milliliters ( mL ) .
• Your healthcare provider will show you how to measure the correct dose of GRANIX .
This dose will be measured in milliliters ( mL ) .
Step 1 F : Wash your hands .
When ready to inject , wash your hands well with soap and water , and dry with a clean towel .
STEP 2 : Get ready Step 2 A : Take the cap off the vial ( Figure B ) .
Clean the rubber stopper with 1 alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 B : Check the packaging for the syringe and needle .
If the packaging has been open or damaged , do not use that syringe and needle .
Throw away ( dispose of ) that syringe and needle in your sharps disposal container .
Step 2 C : Hold the syringe by the barrel with the needle cap pointing up .
Carefully pull the needle cap straight off and away from your body ( Figure C ) .
Important : Throw away ( Dispose of ) the needle cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 D : Keep the vial on the flat work surface and insert the needle straight down through the rubber stopper on top of the vial .
Do not insert the needle through the rubber stopper more than 1 time ( Figure D ) .
Step 2 E : Push the plunger down and inject all the air from the syringe into the vial of GRANIX ( Figure D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 F : Keep the needle in the vial and turn the vial upside down .
Make sure that the GRANIX liquid is covering the tip of the needle ( Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 G : Keep the vial upside down and slowly pull back on the plunger to fill the syringe barrel with GRANIX to the correct marking amount ( mL ) of medicine that matches the dose your healthcare provider prescribed .
Step 2 H : Keep the needle in the vial and check for air bubbles in the syringe .
If there are air bubbles , gently tap the syringe barrel with your finger until the air bubbles rise to the top .
Slowly push the plunger up to push the air bubbles out of the syringe ( Figure F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 I : Keep the tip of the needle in the liquid and pull the plunger back to the number on the syringe barrel that matches your dose .
Check again for air bubbles .
The air in the syringe will not hurt you , but too large an air bubble can reduce your dose of GRANIX .
If there are still air bubbles , repeat the steps above to remove them .
Step 2 J : Check again to make sure that you have the correct dose in the syringe .
It is important that you use the exact dose prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Do not remove the needle from the vial .
Lay the vial down on its side with the needle still in the vial while you prepare the injection site ( Figure G ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 3 – Select and prepare the injection site Step 3 A : Choose an injection site ( Figure H ) You can use : • Stomach - area ( abdomen ) : Except for a 2 - inch area around the navel ( belly button ) • Thighs : Top or middle area of thighs • Arms : Fleshy areas on upper , back part of the arm ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) • Upper outer area of your buttocks : Fleshy areas around the back of the upper hips and upper sides of the buttocks ( only if someone else if giving you the injection ) .
• If 2 injections will be performed , then the second injection should be at least 1 inch away from the first injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not inject into areas that are tender , red , bruised , hard , or have scars or stretch marks .
Important : You should select a different injection site each time you give yourself an injection .
If you want to use the same injection site for a dose requiring 2 injections , make sure the second injection site is at least 1 inch away from the first injection site .
Step 3 B : Clean the injection site using a new alcohol swab ( Figure I ) .
Allow site to dry for 5 - 10 seconds to avoid stinging .
If giving 2 injections , then the distance between the 2 injection sites should be at least 1 inch apart .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not touch this area again before injecting .
STEP 4 – Inject medication Step 4 A : Remove the prepared syringe and needle from the vial .
Step 4 B : With your other hand , pinch the skin around the injection site to create a firm surface ( Figure J ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Keep skin pinched while inserting the needle .
Step 4 C : Insert the needle at a 45 to 90 degree angle ( Figure K ) • Hold the body of the syringe between your thumb and index finger .
• Use a quick motion to fully insert the needle straight into the pinched skin at a 45 to 90 degree angle .
• When the needle is inserted , you can release the pinched skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not hold or push on the plunger while inserting the needle into the skin .
Step 4 D Push the plunger down to inject all of the GRANIX ( Figure L ) • Use your finger to gently push down on the plunger .
• When the plunger head is as far down as it will go , all of the GRANIX has been injected .
When done , gently remove the needle from the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 E : Throw away ( dispose of ) used needle and syringe • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
Step 4 F : Treat the injection site if needed and wash your hands .
If you see drops of blood at the injection site , you can press a cotton ball or gauze over the injection site for several seconds to stop the bleeding .
Apply bandage , if needed .
When you are finished , wash your hands with soap and water ( Figure M ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 G : Repeat steps 1 E through 4 F with a new vial of GRANIX if your healthcare provider instructs you that your dose is more than 1 vial .
If you have any questions or concerns about your dose of GRANIX or how to prepare and give your injections , call your healthcare provider .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : UAB Teva Baltics Vilnius , Lithuania U . S . License No . 1803 Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Product of Israel Revised : 11 / 2019 TBOIFUV - 002 [ MULTIMEDIA ] © 2014 - 2019 Cephalon , Inc . , a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel 63459 - 910 - 11 NDC 63459 - 910 - 11 Rx only Granix ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL For Subcutaneous Use Only A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E Coli 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL For Healthcare Professional Use Only 1 Single - dose prefilled syringe with a safety needle guard Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , 63459 - 910 - 17 NDC 63459 - 910 - 17 Granix ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL For Subcutaneous Use Only A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E Coli 1 Single - dose prefilled syringe WITHOUT a safety needle guard Rx only Discard unused portion 300 mcg / 0 . 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel 63459 - 912 - 11 NDC 63459 - 912 - 11 Rx only Granix ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL For Subcutaneous Use Only A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E Coli 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL For Healthcare Professional Use Only 1 Single - dose prefilled syringe with a safety needle guard Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , 63459 - 912 - 17 NDC 63459 - 912 - 17 Rx only Granix ® ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL For Subcutaneous Use Only A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E Coli 480 mcg / 0 . 8 mL For Healthcare Professional Use Only 1 Single - dose prefilled syringe WITHOUT a safety needle guard Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , 63459 - 918 - 59 NDC 63459 - 918 - 59 10 x 300 mcg / mL Single - Dose Vials ( containing 1 mL ) Granix ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 300 mcg / mL For Subcutaneous Use Only .
A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E . coli .
Discard unused portion .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , 63459 - 920 - 59 NDC 63459 - 920 - 59 10 x 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL Single - Dose Vials Granix ( tbo - filgrastim ) Injection 480 mcg / 1 . 6 mL For Subcutaneous Use Only .
A recombinant Granulocyte Colony - Stimulating Factor ( rG - CSF ) derived from E . coli .
Discard unused portion .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
