Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 % , Homosalate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 2 . 75 % , and Oxybenzone 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do no use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents uner pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 0 F .
Directions • spray liberally and evenly spread by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
• do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions .
Use in well ventilated areas Inactive Ingredients Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphhalate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Polyester - 8 , SD Alcohol 40 - B , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun .
May stain some fabrics Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 840 - 5225 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Panama Jack SPF 30 BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 + CONTINUOUS CLEAR SUNSCREEN SPRAY WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) NON - GREASY FORMULA QUICK & EVEN COVERAGE 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
