Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 2 . 75 % , and Oxybenzone 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Directions • apply liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Blue 1 ( CI 42090 ) , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Glycerin , Polyester - 8 , Red 40 ( CI 16035 ) , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( Alcohol Denat . )
, VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract , Water ( Aqua ) , Yellow 5 ( CI 19140 ) Other information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun • avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration .
Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXOTIC BLEND # 1 Fragrance 30 Continuous Spray Sunscreen with instant BRONZER BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) Australian Gold 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
