Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Oxybenzone 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse eyes with water to remove .
• Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • inmediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Fragrance , Propylene Glycol , Water , Pseudopterogorgia Elisabethae Plant Extract , SD Alcohol ( Alcohol Denat . )
.
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• may stain fabrics .
Question or comments ?
Call 305 . 592 . 8565 Miami Beach Sport Sunscreen Spray 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
