Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 % , Homosalate 10 % , Octisalate 5 % , and Oxybenzone 3 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If use as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer & early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use : on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Content is under pressure - do not pumcture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Directions • Hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin & spray to apply .
Spread evenly by hand 15 minuted before sun exposure • DO NOT spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions .
• Use in a well - ventilated area Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer & early aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and othre sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Fragrance ( Parfum ) , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( Alcohol Denat . )
, VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other Information • Protect this product from exessive heat and direct sunlight • avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Can Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fair & Square Ultra Protection Sunscreen Continuous Spray 15 Broad Spectrum SPF 15 UVA / UVB Protection Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Oil - Free , Non - Greasy Formula Compare to Coppertone 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
