Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 2 . 75 % , and Oxybenzone 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If use as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep away from face to avoid breathing it • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Avoid long term storage above 104ºF ( 40º ) .
Avoid Spraying in eyes .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF .
Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Ensure skin is completely covered with product • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions .
Use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and othe sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Fragrance ( Parfum ) , SD Alcohol 40 - B , tocopheryl acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other Information • avoid spraying on fabrics could cause discoloration • protect this product from exessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
SolScents , LLC . 2200 N . W . 92 nd Avenue .
Miami , Florida 33172 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Can Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] SolScents Sunscreen Broad spectrum SPF 30 Skin Nourishing Antioxidants Deep Love Sugares Plums & Freesia 30 Continuous Spray Sunscreen Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) MADE IN THE USA 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
