Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , heat and smoking .
Contents under presssure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Store at temperatures below 120ºC ( 48ºC ) .
Directions • shake well before use • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Extract , Fragrance , Glycerin , Polyester - 8 , Porphyra Umbilicalis Extract , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract , Tocopheryl Acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Water Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration Question or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) Botanical Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Natural [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
