Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 8 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn .
• • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information • • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , arachidyl alcohol , beheynl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , steareth - 2 , glycerin , steareth - 21 , dimethicone , phenyl trimethicone , polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , butylparaben , propylparaben , isobutylparaben , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , polymethyl methacrylate , lecithin , soy isoflavones , polysorbate 80 , alcohol , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , fragrance , benzalkonium chloride , BHT , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Awaken by Quality Choice ® illuminating daily moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Clinically proven Evens out skin tone & texture Exclusive soy complex & light diffusers * Compare to Aveeno ® Positively Radiant ™ 4 FL OZ .
( 120 mL ) THE RESULTS Illuminating Daily Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen is clinically proven to : • • Leave smoother skin • • Improve skin ’ s tone and texture • • Visibly even out discolorations • • Improve skin ’ s radiance This unique moisturizer has an exclusive soy complex and light diffusers that work together to naturally even out skin tone and texture , immediately reflecting light to visibly smooth skin imperfections , bringing out skin ’ s natural radiance .
This light and quickly absorbed moisturizer is gentle enough for sensitive skin to help maintain healthy - looking skin .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE After cleansing , smooth over face and neck every day for healthier , younger - looking skin .
Soy is nature ’ s secret for naturally radiant skin .
Soy in known for multiple health & skin benefits including : moisturizing , texture smoothing , and evening out skin tone for healthier looking skin .
This oil - free hypoallergenic and non - comedogenic product is gentle enough for everyday use .
Dermatologists recommend the everyday use of an SPF 15 sunscreen as essential to healthy skin care .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson , owner of the registered trademark Aveeno ® Positively Radiant ™ SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 Made in Israel 52326 CD C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
