DESCRIPTION Verapamil HCl is a calcium antagonist or slow channel inhibitor .
Verapamil Hydrochloride is available in 5 mg / 2 mL single dose vials ( for intravenous administration ) .
Each mL contains Verapamil HCI 2 . 5 mg , Sodium Chloride 8 . 5 mg and Water for Injection q . s . pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
The pH of the solution is between 4 and 6 . 5 .
Protect contents from light .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
The structural formula of Verapamil HCI is given below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Verapamil HCI is an almost white , crystalline powder , practically free of odor , with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , chloroform and methanol .
Verapamil HCI is not chemically related to other antiarrhythmic drugs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Verapamil inhibits the calcium ion ( and possibly sodium ion ) influx through slow channels into conductile and contractile myocardial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells .
The antiarrhythmic effect of verapamil appears to be due to its effect on the slow channel in cells of the cardiac conduction system .
The vasodilatory effect of verapamil appears to be due to its effect on blockade of calcium channels as well as α receptors .
In the isolated rabbit heart , concentrations of verapamil that markedly affect SA nodal fibers or fibers in the upper and middle regions of the AV node , have very little effect on fibers in the lower AV node ( NH region ) and no effect on atrial action potentials or His bundle fibers .
Electrical activity in the SA and AV nodes depends , to a large degree , upon calcium influx through the slow channel .
By inhibiting this influx , verapamil slows AV conduction and prolongs the effective refractory period within the AV node in a rate - related manner .
This effect results in a reduction of the ventricular rate in patients with atrial flutter and / or atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular response .
By interrupting reentry at the AV node , verapamil can restore normal sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias ( PSVT ) , including PSVT associated with Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome .
Verapamil does not induce peripheral arterial spasm .
Verapamil has a local anesthetic action that is 1 . 6 times that of procaine on an equimolar basis .
It is not known whether this action is important at the doses used in man .
Verapamil does not alter total serum calcium levels .
Hemodynamics : Verapamil reduces afterload and myocardial contractility .
The commonly used intravenous doses of 5 to 10 mg verapamil hydrochloride produce transient , usually asymptomatic , reduction in normal systemic arterial pressure , systemic vascular resistance and contractility ; left ventricular filling pressure is slightly increased .
In most patients , including those with organic cardiac disease , the negative inotropic action of verapamil is countered by reduction of afterload , and cardiac index is usually not reduced .
However , in patients with moderately severe to severe cardiac dysfunction ( pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mm Hg , ejection fraction less than 30 % ) , acute worsening of heart failure may be seen .
Peak therapeutic effects occur within 3 to 5 minutes after a bolus injection .
Pharmacokinetics : Intravenously administered Verapamil has been shown to be rapidly metabolized .
Following intravenous infusion in man , verapamil is eliminated biexponentially , with a rapid early distribution phase ( half - life about 4 minutes ) and a slower terminal elimination phase ( half - life 2 to 5 hours ) .
In healthy men , orally administered verapamil hydrochloride undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver ; 12 metabolites having been identified , most in only trace amounts .
The major metabolites have been identified as various N - and 0 - dealkylated products of verapamil .
Approximately 70 % of an administered dose is excreted in the urine and 16 % or more in the feces within 5 days .
About 3 to 4 % is excreted as unchanged drug .
Aging may affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil given to hypertensive patients .
Elimination half - life may be prolonged in the elderly .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intravenous Verapamil HCI is indicated for the following : • Rapid conversion to sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias , including those associated with accessory bypass tracts ( Wolff - Parkinson - White [ W - P - W ] and Lown - Ganong - Levine [ L - G - L ] syndromes ) .
When clinically advisable , appropriate vagal maneuvers ( e . g . , Valsalva maneuver ) should be attempted prior to verapamil hydrochloride administration .
• Temporary control of rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation except when the atrial flutter and / or atrial fibrillation are associated with accessory bypass tracts ( Wolff - Parkinson - White [ W - P - W ] and Lown - Ganong - Levine [ L - G - L ] syndromes ) .
In controlled studies in the United States , about 60 % of patients with supraventricular tachycardia converted to normal sinus rhythm within 10 minutes after intravenous verapamil .
Uncontrolled studies reported in the world literature describe a conversion rate of about 80 % .
About 70 % of patients with atrial flutter and / or fibrillation with a fast ventricular rate respond with a decrease in ventricular rate of at least 20 % .
Conversion of atrial flutter or fibrillation to sinus rhythm is uncommon ( about 10 % ) after verapamil and may reflect the spontaneous conversion rate , since the conversion rate after placebo was similar .
Slowing of the ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation / flutter lasts 30 to 60 minutes after a single injection .
Because a small fraction ( < 1 % ) of patients treated with verapamil respond with life - threatening adverse responses ( rapid ventricular rate In atrial flutter / fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract , marked hypotension , or extreme bradycardia / asystole - see Contraindications and Warnings ) , the initial use of intravenous verapamil should , if possible , be in a treatment setting with monitoring and resuscitation facilities , including DC - cardioversion capability ( see Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions ) .
As familiarity with the patient ' s response is gained , use in an office setting may be acceptable .
Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after intravenous verapamil .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Intravenous Verapamil HCI is contraindicated in : • Severe hypotension or cardiogenic shock .
• Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Sick sinus syndrome ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Severe congestive heart failure ( unless secondary to a supraventricular tachycardia amenable to verapamil therapy . )
• Patients receiving intravenous beta adrenergic blocking drugs ( e . g . , propranolol ) .
Intravenous verapamil and intravenous beta adrenergic blocking drugs should not be administered in close proximity to each other ( within a few hours ) , since both may have a depressant effect on myocardial contractility and AV conduction .
• Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract ( i . e . Wolff - Parkinson - White , Lown - Ganong - Levine syndromes ) are at risk to develop ventricular tachyarrhythmia including ventricular fibrillation if verapamil is administered .
Therefore , the use of verapamil in these patients is contraindicated .
• Ventricular Tachycardia .
Administration of intravenous verapamil to patients with wide - complex ventricular - tachycardia ( QRS ≥ 0 . 12 sec ) can result in marked hemodynamic deterioration and ventricular fibrillation .
Proper pretherapy diagnosis and differentiation from wide - complex supraventricular tachycardia is imperative in the emergency room setting .
• Known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride .
WARNINGS VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Hypotension : Intravenous Verapamil HCI often produces a decrease in blood pressure below baseline levels that is usually transient and asymptomatic but may result in dizziness .
Systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg and / or diastolic pressure less than 60 mm Hg was seen in 5 to 10 % of patients in controlled U . S . trials in supraventricular tachycardia and in about 10 % of the patients with atrial flutter / fibrillation .
The incidence of symptomatic hypotension observed in studies conducted in the U . S . was approximately 1 . 5 % .
Three of the five symptomatic patients required intravenous pharmacologic treatment ( norepinephrine bitartrate , metaraminol bitartrate , or 10 % calcium gluconate ) .
All recovered without sequelae .
Extreme Bradycardia / Asystole : Verapamil HCI affects the AV and SA nodes and rarely may produce second - or third - degree AV block , bradycardia and , in extreme cases , asystole .
This is more likely to occur in patients with a sick sinus syndrome ( SA nodal disease ) , which is more common in older patients .
Bradycardia associated with sick sinus syndrome was reported in 0 . 3 % of the patients treated in controlled double - blind trials in the United States .
The total incidence of bradycardia ( ventricular rate less than 60 beats / min ) was 1 . 2 % in these studies .
Asystole in patients other than those with sick sinus syndrome is usually of short duration ( few seconds or less ) , with spontaneous return to AV nodal or normal sinus rhythm .
If this does not occur promptly , appropriate treatment should be initiated immediately .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS and Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions . )
Heart Failure : When heart failure is not severe or rate related , it should be controlled with digitalis glycosides and diuretics , as appropriate , before verapamil is used .
In patients with moderately severe to severe cardiac dysfunction ( pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mm Hg , ejection fraction less than 30 % ) , acute worsening of heart failure may be seen .
Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy : Digitalis : Intravenous verapamil has been used concomitantly with digitalis preparations without the occurrence of serious adverse effects .
However , since both drugs slow AV conduction , patients should be monitored for AV block or excessive bradycardia .
Procainamide : Intravenous verapamil has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral procainamide without the occurrence of serious adverse effects .
Quinidine : Intravenous verapamil has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral quinidine without the occurrence of serious adverse effects .
However , three patients have been described in whom the combination resulted in an exaggerated hypotensive response presumably from the combined ability of both drugs to antagonize the effects of catecholamines on α - adrenergic receptors .
Caution should therefore be used when employing this combination of drugs .
Beta Adrenergic Blocking Drugs : Intravenous verapamil has been administered to patients receiving oral beta blockers without the development of serious adverse effects .
However , since both drugs may depress myocardial contractility and AV conduction , the possibility of detrimental interactions should be considered .
The concomitant administration of intravenous beta blockers and intravenous verapamil has resulted in serious adverse reactions ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) , especially in patients with severe cardiomyopathy , congestive heart failure or recent myocardial infarction .
Disopyramide : Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and all forms of disopyramide phosphate are obtained , disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration .
Flecainide : A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects reducing myocardial contractility , prolonging AV conduction , and prolonging repolarization .
Heart Block : Verapamil prolongs AV conduction time .
While high degree AV block has not been observed in controlled clinical trials in the U . S . , a low percentage ( less than 0 . 5 % ) has been reported in the world literature .
Development of second - or third - degree AV block or unifascicular , bifascicular or trifascicular bundle branch block requires reduction in subsequent doses or discontinuation of verapamil and institution of appropriate therapy , if needed .
( See Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions ) .
Hepatic and Renal Failure : Significant hepatic and renal failure should not increase the effects of a single intravenous dose of Verapamil HCI but may prolong its duration .
Repeated injections of intravenous verapamil in such patients may lead to accumulation and an excessive pharmacologic effect of the drug .
There is no experience to guide use of multiple doses in such patients and this generally should be avoided .
If repeated injections are essential , blood pressure and PR interval should be closely monitored and smaller repeat doses should be utilized .
Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
Premature Ventricular Contractions : During conversion to normal sinus rhythm , or marked reduction in ventricular rate , a few benign complexes of unusual appearance ( sometimes resembling premature ventricular contractions ) may be seen after treatment with Verapamil HCI .
Similar complexes are seen during spontaneous conversion supraventricular tachycardias , after D . C . - cardioversion and other pharmacologic therapy .
These complexes appear to have no clinical significance .
Duchenne ' s Muscular Dystrophy : Intravenous Verapamil HCI can precipitate respiratory muscle failure in these patients and should , therefore , be used with caution .
Increased Intracranial Pressure : Intravenous Verapamil HCI has been seen to increase intracranial pressure in patients with supratentorial tumors at the time of anesthesia induction .
Caution should be taken and appropriate monitoring performed .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions : ( See WARNINGS : Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy ) Intravenous Verapamil HCI has been used concomitantly with other cardioactive drugs ( especially digitalis ) without evidence of serious negative drug interactions .
In rare instances , including when patients with severe cardiomyopathy , congestive heart failure or recent myocardial infarction were given intravenous beta - adrenergic blocking agents or disopyramide concomitantly with intravenous verapamil , serious adverse effects have occurred .
Concomitant use of verapamil with β - adrenergic blockers may result in an exaggerated hypotensive response .
Such an effect was observed in one study , following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin .
It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and / or dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly .
As verapamil is highly bound to plasma proteins , it should be administered with caution to patients receiving other highly protein bound drugs .
OTHER : Cimetidine : The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied .
In acute studies of healthy volunteers , clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged .
Lithium : Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium ( neurotoxicity ) has been reported during concomitant verapamil - lithium therapy with either no change or an increase in serum lithium levels .
The addition of verapamil , however , has also resulted in the lowering of serum lithium levels in patients receiving chronic stable oral lithium .
Patients receiving both drugs must be monitored carefully .
Carbamazepine : Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy .
This may produce carbamazepine side effects such as diplopia , headache , ataxia , or dizziness .
Rifampin : Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability .
Phenobarbital : Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance .
Cyclosporin : Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporin .
InhalatIon Anesthetics : Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions .
When used concomitantly , inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists ( such as verapamil ) should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression .
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents : Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of depolarizing and nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents , it may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and / or the dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly .
Dantrolene : Two animal studies suggest concomitant intravenous use of verapamil and dantrolene sodium may result in cardiovascular collapse .
There has also been one report of hyperkalemia and myocardial depression following the coadministration of oral verapamil and intravenous dantrolene .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at oral verapamil doses up to 1 . 5 ( 15 mg / kg / day ) and 6 ( 60 mg / kg / day ) times the human oral daily dose , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
In the rat , however , this multiple of the human dose was embryocidal and retarded fetal growth and development , probably because of adverse maternal effects reflected in reduced weight gains of the dams .
This oral dose has also been shown to cause hypotension in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery : There have been few controlled studies to determine whether the use of verapamil during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , or whether it prolongs the duration of labor or increases the need for forceps delivery or other obstetric intervention .
Such adverse experiences have not been reported in the literature , despite a long history of use of intravenous verapamil in Europe in the treatment of cardiac side effects of beta - adrenergic agonist agents used to treat premature labor .
Nursing Mothers : Verapamil crosses the placental barrier and can be detected in umbilical vein blood at delivery .
Also verapamil is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from verapamil , nursing should be discontinued while verapamil is administered .
Pediatric Use : Controlled studies with verapamil have not been conducted in pediatric patients , but uncontrolled experience with intravenous administration in more than 250 patients , about half under 12 months of age and about 25 % newborn , indicated that results of treatment are similar to those in adults .
In rare instances , however , severe hemodynamic side effects - some of them fatal - have occurred following the intravenous administration of verapamil to neonates and infants .
Caution should therefore be used when administering verapamil to this group of pediatric patients .
The most commonly used single doses in patients up to 12 months of age have ranged from 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg / kg of body weight , while in patients aged 1 to 15 years , the most commonly used single doses ranged from 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Most of the patients received the lower dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg once but , in some cases , the dose was repeated once or twice every 10 to 30 minutes .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions were reported with intravenous Verapamil HCI used in controlled U . S . clinical trials involving 324 patients .
Cardiovascular : Symptomatic hypotension ( 1 . 5 % ) ; bradycardia ( 1 . 2 % ) ; severe tachycardia ( 1 % ) .
The worldwide experience in open clinical trials in more than 7 , 900 patients was similar .
Central Nervous System Effects : Dizziness ( 1 . 2 % ) ; headache ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Occasional cases of seizures during verapamil injection have been reported .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea ( 0 . 9 % ) : abdominal discomfort ( 0 . 6 % ) .
In rare cases of hypersensitive patients , broncho / laryngeal spasm accompanied by itch and urticaria have been reported .
The following reactions have been reported at low frequency : emotional depression , rotary nystagmus , sleepiness , vertigo , muscle fatigue , diaphoresis , and respiratory failure .
Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions * The frequency of these adverse reactions was quite low and experience with their treatment has been limited . Adverse Reaction Proven Effective Treatment Supportive Treatment * Actual treatment and dosage should depend on the severity of the clinical situation and the judgement and experience of the treating physician .
1 .
Symptomatic hypotension requiring treatment Calcium chloride ( IV ) Norepinephrine bitartrate ( IV ) Metaraminol bitartrate ( IV ) Isoproterenol HCI ( IV ) Dopamine ( IV ) Intravenous fluids Trendelenburg position 2 .
Bradycardia , AV block , Asystole Isoproterenol HCI ( IV ) Calcium chloride ( IV ) Cardiac pacing LevarterenoI bitartrate ( IV ) Atropine ( IV ) Intravenous fluids ( slow drip ) 3 .
Rapid ventricular rate ( due to antegrade conduction in flutter / fibrillation with W - P - W or L - G - L syndromes ) DC - cardioversion ( high energy may be required ) Procainamide ( IV ) Lidocaine ( IV ) Intravenous fluids ( slow drip ) OVERDOSAGE : Treatment of overdosage should be supportive and individualized .
Beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or parenteral administration of calcium solutions may increase calcium ion flux across the slow channel , and have been effectively used in treatment of deliberate overdosage with oral Verapamil HCI .
Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
Clinically significant hypotensive reactions or high degree AV block should be treated with vasopressor agents or cardiac pacing , respectively .
Asystole should be handled by the usual measures including isoproterenol hydrochloride , other vasopressor agents or cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( see Treatment of Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( For Intravenous Use Only ) VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME UNDER CONTINUOUS ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC AND BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING .
The recommended intravenous doses of verapamil are as follows : ADULT : Initial dose : 5 to 10 mg ( 0 . 075 to 0 . 15 mg / kg body weight ) given as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes .
Repeat dose : 10 mg ( 0 . 15 mg / kg body weight ) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate .
An optimal interval for subsequent l . V . doses has not been determined , and should be individualized for each patient .
Older Patients : The dose should be administered over at least 3 minutes to minimize the risk of untoward drug effects .
PEDIATRIC : Initial dose : 0 - 1 yr : 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg / kg body weight ( usual single dose range 0 . 75 to 2 mg ) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring .
1 - 15 yrs : 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 mg / kg body weight ( usual single dose range 2 to 5 mg ) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes .
Do not exceed 5 mg .
Repeat dose : 0 - 1 yr : 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg / kg body weight ( usual single dose range 0 . 75 to 2 mg ) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate ( under continuous ECG monitoring ) .
An optimal interval for subsequent I . V . doses has not been determined , and should be individualized for each patient .
1 - 15 yrs : 0 . 1 to 0 . 3 mg / kg body weight ( usual single dose range 2 to 5 mg ) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate .
Do not exceed 10 mg as a single dose .
An optimal interval for subsequent l . V . doses has not been determined , and should be individualized for each patient .
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Verapamil is physically compatible and chemically stable for at least 24 hours at 25 ° C protected from light in most common large volume parenteral solutions .
Admixing verapamil hydrochloride with albumin , amphotericin B , hydralazine HCI and trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole should be avoided .
Verapamil hydrochloride will precipitate in any solution with a pH above 6 .
HOW SUPPLIED : Verapamil Hydrochloride Injection , USP ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) 0517 - 5402 - 25 2 mL Single Dose Vial ( 5 mg / 2 mL ) packaged in 25 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP ) .
Protect from light .
IN0501 Rev . 1 / 03 AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967
