DESCRIPTION Methergine ® ( methylergonovine maleate ) is a semi - synthetic ergot alkaloid used for the prevention and control of postpartum hemorrhage .
Methergine is available in tablets for oral ingestion containing 0 . 2 mg methylergonovine maleate .
Tablets Active ingredient : Methylergonovine maleate , USP , 0 . 2 mg .
Inactive ingredients : acacia , corn starch , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , propylparaben , stearic acid , and tartaric acid .
Chemically , methylergonovine maleate is designated as ergoline - 8 - carboxamide , 9 , 10 - didehydro - N - [ 1 - ( hydroxymethyl ) propyl ] - 6 - methyl - , [ 8β ( S ) ] - , ( Z ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methergine ( methylergonovine maleate ) acts directly on the smooth muscle of the uterus and increases the tone , rate , and amplitude of rhythmic contractions .
Thus , it induces a rapid and sustained tetanic uterotonic effect which shortens the third stage of labor and reduces blood loss .
The onset of action after I . V . administration is immediate ; after I . M . administration , 2 - 5 minutes , and after oral administration , 5 - 10 minutes .
Pharmacokinetic studies following an I . V . injection have shown that methylergonovine is rapidly distributed from plasma to peripheral tissues within 2 - 3 minutes or less .
The bioavailability after oral administration was reported to be about 60 % with no accumulation after repeated doses .
During delivery , with intramuscular injection , bioavailability increased to 78 % .
Ergot alkaloids are mostly eliminated by hepatic metabolism and excretion , and the decrease in bioavailability following oral administration is probably a result of first - pass metabolism in the liver .
Bioavailability studies conducted in fasting healthy female volunteers have shown that oral absorption of a 0 . 2 mg methylergonovine tablet was fairly rapid with a mean peak plasma concentration of 3243 ± 1308 pg / mL observed at 1 . 12 ± 0 . 82 hours .
For a 0 . 2 mg intramuscular injection , a mean peak plasma concentration of 5918 ± 1952 pg / mL was observed at 0 . 41 ± 0 . 21 hours .
The extent of absorption of the tablet , based upon methylergonovine plasma concentrations , was found to be equivalent to that of the I . M . solution given orally , and the extent of oral absorption of the I . M . solution was proportional to the dose following administration of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , and 0 . 4 mg .
When given intramuscularly , the extent of absorption of Methergine solution was about 25 % greater than the tablet .
The volume of distribution ( Vd ss / F ) of methylergonovine was calculated to be 56 . 1 ± 17 . 0 liters , and the plasma clearance ( CLp / F ) was calculated to be 14 . 4 ± 4 . 5 liters per hour .
The plasma level decline was biphasic with a mean elimination half - life of 3 . 39 hours ( range 1 . 5 to 12 . 7 hours ) .
A delayed gastrointestinal absorption ( T max about 3 hours ) of Methergine tablet might be observed in postpartum women during continuous treatment with this oxytocic agent .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Following delivery of placenta , for routine management of uterine atony , hemorrhage and subinvolution of the uterus .
For control of uterine hemorrhage in the second stage of labor following delivery of the anterior shoulder .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypertension ; toxemia ; pregnancy ; and hypersensitivity .
WARNINGS General This drug should not be administered I . V . routinely because of the possibility of inducing sudden hypertensive and cerebrovascular accidents .
If I . V administration is considered essential as a lifesaving measure , Methergine ( methylergonovine maleate ) should be given slowly over a period of no less than 60 seconds with careful monitoring of blood pressure .
Intra - arterial or periarterial injection should be strictly avoided .
Caution should be exercised in presence of impaired hepatic or renal function .
Breast - feeding Mothers should not breast - feed during treatment with Methergine .
Milk secreted during this period should be discarded .
Methergine may produce adverse effects in the breast - feeding infant .
Methergine may also reduce the yield of breast milk .
Mothers should wait at least 12 hours after administration of the last dose of Methergine before initiating or resuming breast feeding .
Coronary artery disease Patients with coronary artery disease or risk factors for coronary artery disease ( e . g . , smoking , obesity , diabetes , high cholesterol ) may be more susceptible to developing myocardial ischemia and infarction associated with methylergonovine - induced vasospasm .
Medication errors Inadvertent administration of Methergine to newborn infants has been reported .
In these cases of inadvertent neonatal exposure , symptoms such as respiratory depression , convulsions , cyanosis and oliguria have been reported .
Usual treatment is symptomatic .
However , in severe cases , respiratory and cardiovascular support is required .
Methergine has been administered instead of vitamin K and Hepatitis B vaccine , medications which are routinely administered to the newborn .
Due to the potential for accidental neonatal exposure , Methergine injection should be stored separately from medications intended for neonatal administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution should be exercised in the presence of sepsis , obliterative vascular disease .
Also use with caution during the second stage of labor .
The necessity for manual removal of a retained placenta should occur only rarely with proper technique and adequate allowance of time for its spontaneous separation .
Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors ) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs ( e . g . , dihydroergotamine and ergotamine ) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors , resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities .
Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone , potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine .
Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin , troleandomycin , clarithromycin ) , HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , delavirdine ) or azole antifungals ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , voriconazole ) .
Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution .
Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir , nefazodone , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , zileuton , and clotrimazole .
These lists are not exhaustive , and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine .
CYP3A4 inducers Drugs ( e . g . nevirapine , rifampicin ) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of Methergine .
Beta - blockers Caution should be exercised when Methergine is used concurrently with beta - blockers .
Concomitant administration with beta - blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids .
Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothan and methoxyfluran may reduce the oxytocic potency of Methergine .
Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs .
No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known .
Caution should be exercised when Methergine ( methylergonovine maleate ) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors , ergot alkaloids , or prostaglandins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies have been performed in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
The effect of the drug on mutagenesis or fertility has not been determined .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Methergine .
It is also not known whether methylergonovine maleate can cause fetal harm or can affect reproductive capacity .
Use of Methergine is contraindicated during pregnancy because of its uterotonic effects .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Labor and Delivery The uterotonic effect of Methergine is utilized after delivery to assist involution and decrease hemorrhage , shortening the third stage of labor .
Nursing Mothers Mothers should not breast - feed during treatment with Methergine and at least 12 hours after administration of the last dose .
Milk secreted during this period should be discarded .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Methergine did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and / or headache .
Hypotension has also been reported .
Abdominal pain ( caused by uterine contractions ) , nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally .
Rarely observed reactions have included : acute myocardial infarction , transient chest pains , vasoconstriction , vasospasm , coronary arterial spasm , bradycardia , tachycardia , dyspnea , hematuria , thrombophlebitis , water intoxication , hallucinations , leg cramps , dizziness , tinnitus , nasal congestion , diarrhea , diaphoresis , palpitation , rash , and foul taste .
1 There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis , without a proven causal relationship to the drug product .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post - marketing experience with Methergine via spontaneous case reports .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known .
Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident , paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation , ventricular tachycardia , angina pectoris , atrioventricular block DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Methergine ( methylergonovine maleate ) has not been associated with drug abuse or dependence of either a physical or psychological nature .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of acute overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , oliquria , abdominal pain , numbness , tingling of the extremities , rise in blood pressure , in severe cases followed by hypotension , respiratory depression , hypothermia , convulsions , and coma .
Because reports of overdosage with Methergine ( methylergonovine maleate ) are infrequent , the lethal dose in humans has not been established .
The oral LD 50 ( in mg / kg ) for the mouse is 187 , the rat 93 , and the rabbit 4 . 5 2 .
Several cases of accidental Methergine injection in newborn infants have been reported , and in such cases 0 . 2 mg represents an overdose of great magnitude .
However , recovery occurred in all but one case following a period of respiratory depression , hypothermia , hypertonicity with jerking movements , and convulsions .
Also , several children 1 - 3 years of age have accidentally ingested up to 10 tablets ( 2 mg ) with no apparent ill effects .
A postpartum patient took 4 tablets at one time in error and reported paresthesias and clamminess as her only symptoms .
Treatment of acute overdosage is symptomatic and includes the usual procedures of : • removal of offending drug by inducing emesis , gastric lavage , catharsis , and supportive diuresis .
• maintenance of adequate pulmonary ventilation , especially if convulsions or coma develop .
• correction of hypotension with pressor drugs as needed .
• control of convulsions with standard anticonvulsant agents .
• control of peripheral vasospasm with warmth to the extremities if needed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Intramuscularly 1 mL , 0 . 2 mg , after delivery of the anterior shoulder , after delivery of the placenta , or during the puerperium .
May be repeated as required , at intervals of 2 - 4 hours .
Intravenously 1 mL , 0 . 2 mg , administered slowly over a period of no less than 60 seconds ( See WARNINGS . )
Orally One tablet , 0 . 2 mg , 3 or 4 times daily in the puerperium for a maximum of 1 week .
HOW SUPPLIED White , round , biconvex compressed tablets debossed with " n " on one side and " 01 " on the other side .
Available in bottles of 7 , 12 , 28 and 100 tablets .
Bottles of 7 … … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 27437 - 050 - 19 Bottles of 12 … … … … … … … … … … … .
NDC 27437 - 050 - 57 Bottles of 28 … … … … … … … … … … … .
NDC 27437 - 050 - 56 Bottles of 100 … … … … … … … … … ... … NDC 27437 - 050 - 01 STORE AND DISPENSE Tablets : Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; in tight , light - resistant container .
Methergine is a registered trademark of Novartis AG Manufactured by : Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Manufactured for : Lupin Pharma Baltimore , MD 21202 PI1400003901 Iss .
01 / 2016 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Methergine ( methylergonovinemaleate ) tablets , USP Container Labels 7 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 28 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 Count [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
