Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Each gram of Alcortin ® A contains 2 . 0 % ( 20 mg ) Hydrocortisone Acetate and 1 . 0 % ( 10 mg ) Iodoquinol .
Also contains 1 . 0 % ( 10 mg ) Aloe polysaccharide [ 1 ] .
Other ingredients : Purified Water , Carbopol , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , PPG - 20 Methyl Glucose Ether , Aminomethyl Propanol , Propylene Glycol , Glycerine , Benzyl Alcohol , SD Alcohol 40 B , Biopeptide , Hydrochloric Acid , FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Yellow # 10 .
[ 1 ] U . S . Patents # 6 , 436 , 679 ; # 6 , 271 , 214 ; # 6 , 133 , 440 ; # 5 , 708 , 038 ; patent pending Iodoquinol Iodoquinol is an antifungal and antibacterial agent .
Chemically , Iodoquinol is [ 5 , 7 - diiodo - 8 - quinolinol ] with the molecular formula ( C9H5I2NO ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Acetate Hydrocortisone acetate is an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agent .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is [ Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - ] with the molecular formula ( C21H30O5 ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocortisone Acetate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
While the mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity is unclear , there is evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in humans .
Iodoquinol has both antifungal and antibacterial properties .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical steroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
Hydrocortisone acetate can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other inflammatory disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , hydrocortisone acetate is metabolized in the liver and most body tissue to hydrogenated and degraded forms such as tetrahydrocortisone and tetrahydrocortisol .
These are excreted in the urine , mainly conjugated as glucuronides , together with a very small proportion of unchanged hydrocortisone acetate .
There are no data available regarding the percutaneous absorption of iodoquinol ; however , following oral administration , 3 - 5 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as a glucuronide .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of a related drug by the National Research Council and subsequent FDA classification for that drug , the indications are as follows : " Possibly " Effective : Contact or atopic dermatitis ; impetiginized eczema ; nummular eczema ; endogenous chronic infectious dermatitis ; stasis dermatitis ; pyoderma ; nuchal eczema and chronic eczematoid otitis externa ; acne urticata ; localized or disseminated neurodermatitis ; lichen simplex chronicus ; anogenital pruritus ( vulvae , scroti , ani ) ; folliculitis ; bacterial dermatoses ; mycotic dermatoses such as tinea ( capitis , cruris , corporis , pedis ) ; monliasis ; intertrigo .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Alcortin A is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate , iodoquinol , aloe vera , glycine , histidine , lysine , palmitic acid or any other components of the preparation .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS For external use only .
Keep away from eyes .
If irritation develops , the use of Alcortin A should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Staining of the skin , hair and fabrics may occur .
Not intended for use on infants or under diapers or occlusive dressings .
If extensive areas are treated or if the occlusive dressing technique is used , the possibility exists of increased systemic absorption of the corticosteroid , and suitable precautions should be taken .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Iodoquinol may be absorbed through the skin and interfere with thyroid function tests .
If such tests are contemplated , wait at least one month after discontinuance of therapy to perform these tests .
The ferric chloride test for phenylketonuria ( PKU ) can yield a false positive result if iodoquinol is present in the diaper or urine .
Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms requiring appropriate therapy .
Keep out of reach of children .
Burning , itching , irritation and dryness have been reported infrequently following the use of topical corticosteroids .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenisis and Impairment of Fertility Long term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect on fertility of hydrocortisone or iodoquinol .
In vitro studies to determine mutagenicity with hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Mutagenicity studies have not been performed with iodoquinol .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Alcortin A .
It is not known whether Alcortin A can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproductive capacity .
Alcortin A should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Alcortin A is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence .
Burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to affected area 3 - 4 times daily in accordance with physician ' s directions or as directed otherwise by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED FORM 48 . 0 gram carton of 24 - count of 2 . 0 gram gel individual packs NDC # 68040 - 705 - 13 2 . 0 gram gel individual pack NDC # 68040 - 705 - 02 10 count carton of 2 . 0 gram gel sample packs - not for resale NDC # 68040 - 705 - 08 Each 2 . 0 gram gel pack contains multiple doses depending on the surface area treated .
STORAGE Store at room temperature 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Rx only www . alcortin . com Distributed by : Primus Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Scottsdale , AZ 85251 www . primusrx . com Manufactured by : Sonar Products , Inc .
Carlstadt , NJ 07072 © 2007 Primus Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
ISS .
1207 # 00499 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 24 Pack Carton NDC 68040 - 705 - 13 Rx only Alcortin ® A Gel 1 % iodoquinol • 2 % hydrocortisone acetate 1 % aloe polysaccharides Anti - fungal • Anti - bacterial • Anti - inflammatory 24 PACK Hygienic • Convenient & Portable Contains moisturizers • For dermatological use only Biopeptide Aloe Complex ™ Deeper Penetration Patented Formula Net Wt .
48 . 0 g ( 1 . 69 oz . )
• 24 packs of 2 . 0 g ( 0 . 07 oz . )
each Each pack contains multiple doses ( depending on the surface area treated ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
