Benzocaine 15 mg Menthol 2 . 5 mg Benzocaine - Oral Pain Reliever Menthol - Oral Pain Reliever Use for the temporary relief of pain due to minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried to the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatique or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a physician or healthcare provider • for teething • in children under 12 years of age Stop use and ask a phyisican if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • make sure hands are dry and free of moisture as strip may be sticky / tacky • tear open pouch and remove blue strip Adults and children 12 years or age and over : Using either side of strip , immediately place directly onto the affected area keeping tongue and lips clear .
Gently press for 5 - 10 seconds until strip adheres to the area .
Strip will stay in place and dissolve slowly in mouth for up to 1 hour for duration of treatment .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a physician or healthcare provider .
Children under 12 years of age : Do not use Other Information • do not use if pouch is torn or cut prior to opening • do not use continously • for best results , avoid drinking warm beverages or eating for at least one hour after applying the product acid blue 9 , glycerin , PEG - 8 , PEG - 90 , polycarbophil , potassium sorbate , pullulan , PVP , titanium dioxide , water .
Questions • call us at 800 952 5080 Monday through Friday 9 am to 5 pm or visit our website at www orajel com # 1 ORAL PAIN Reliever Brand For Toothache NEW !
SLOW DISSOLVING STRIPS For Lasting Relief Orajel ™ TOOTHACHE STRIPS MEDICATED FOR TOOTHACHE & GUM INSTANT & TARGETED PAIN RELIEF • Long - Lasting Pain Relief • Maximum level of Pain Relief with 15 mg Benzocaine * • Stays in place for Targeted Relief • Soothes gums with Menthol Cool Mint Taste 8 STRIPS Individually Wrapped Oral Pain Reliever [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
