1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine Hydrochloride , USP 15 mg and 30 mg is indicated as a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg / m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg / m 2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
Below is a chart of Body Mass Index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ’ s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ’ s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches x 0 . 0254 = meters .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The limited usefulness of agents of this class , including Phentermine hydrochloride , [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 2 ) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below .
Phentermine Hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short - term adjunct ( a few weeks ) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg / m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg / m 2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
( 1 ) The limited usefulness of agents of this class , including Phentermine hydrochloride , should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use .
( 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
( 2 . 1 ) • Late evening administration should be avoided ( risk of insomnia ) .
( 2 . 1 ) • Phentermine Hydrochloride can be taken with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) • Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
The usual adult dose is 15 mg to 30 mg at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
Administration of one capsule ( 30 mg ) daily has been found to be adequate in depression of the appetite for 12 to 14 hours .
Phentermine is not recommended for use in patients 16 years of age and under .
Late Evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
2 . 2 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended maximum dosage of phentermine hydrochloride is 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairments ( eGFR 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
Avoid use of phentermine hydrochloride in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules containing 15 mg and 30 mg Phentermine Hydrochloride • Capsules containing 15 mg and 30 mg Phentermine Hydrochloride .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity , or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines • History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension ) ( 4 ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) • Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Agitated states ( 4 ) • History of drug abuse ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8 . 1 ) • Nursing ( 4 , 8 . 3 ) • Known hypersensitivity , or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Coadministration with other drugs for weight loss is not recommended ( safety and efficacy of combination not established ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • Rare cases of primary pulmonary hypertension have been reported .
Phentermine should be discontinued in case of new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
( 5 . 2 ) • Rare cases of serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease have been reported .
( 5 . 3 ) • Tolerance to the anorectic effect usually develops within a few weeks .
If this occurs , phentermine should be discontinued .
The recommended dose should not be exceeded .
( 5 . 4 ) • Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
( 5 . 5 ) • Risk of abuse and dependence .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
( 5 . 6 ) • Concomitant alcohol use may result in an adverse drug reaction .
( 5 . 7 ) • Use caution in patients with even mild hypertension ( risk of increase in blood pressure ) .
( 5 . 8 ) • A reduction in dose of insulin or oral hypoglycemic medication may be required in some patients .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Coadministration with Other Drug Products for Weight Loss Phentermine is indicated only as short - term ( a few weeks ) monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity .
The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations , and herbal products , or serotonergic agents such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , paroxetine ) , have not been established .
Therefore , coadministration of phentermine and these drug products is not recommended .
5 . 2 Primary Pulmonary Hypertension Primary Pulmonary Hypertension ( PPH ) – a rare , frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine .
The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea .
Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance .
Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema , and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
5 . 3 Valvular Heart Disease Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , primarily affecting the mitral , aortic and / or tricuspid valves , has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss .
The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known .
The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
5 . 4 Development of Tolerance , Discontinuation in Case of Tolerance When tolerance to the anorectant effect develops , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
5 . 5 Effect on the Ability to Engage in Potentially Hazardous Tasks Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
5 . 6 Risk of Abuse and Dependence Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to amphetamine ( d - and d / l - amphetamine ) and other related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused .
The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
5 . 7 Usage with Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with Phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
5 . 8 Use in Patients with Hypertension Use caution in prescribing Phentermine for patients with even mild hypertension ( risk of increase in blood pressure ) .
5 . 9 Use in Patients on Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemic Medications for Diabetes Mellitus A reduction in insulin or oral hypoglycemic medications in patients with diabetes mellitus may be required .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : • Primary pulmonary hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Valvular heart disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Effect on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Withdrawal effects following prolonged high dosage administration [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions to phentermine have been identified : Cardiovascular : Primary pulmonary hypertension and / or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , palpitation , tachycardia , elevation of blood pressure , ischemic events .
Central Nervous System : Overstimulation , restlessness , dizziness , insomnia , euphoria , dysphoria , tremor , headache , psychosis .
Gastrointestinal : Dryness of the mouth , unpleasant taste , diarrhea , constipation , other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Allergic : Urticaria .
Endocrine : Impotence , changes in libido .
Adverse events have been reported in the cardiovascular , central nervous , gastrointestinal , allergic , and endocrine systems .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact KVK - TECH , Inc . , at 215 - 579 - 1842 or customerservice @ kvktech . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors : Risk of hypertensive crisis .
( 4 , 7 . 1 ) • Alcohol : Consider potential interaction ( 7 . 2 ) • Insulin and oral hypoglycemics : Requirements may be altered .
( 7 . 3 ) • Adrenergic neuron blocking drugs : Hypotensive effect may be decreased by phentermine .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of Phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis .
7 . 2 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
7 . 3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
7 . 4 Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Discontinue drug or nursing taking into consideration importance of drug to mother .
( 4 , 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric use : Due to substantial renal excretion , use with caution .
( 8 . 5 ) • Renal Impairment : Avoid use in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL / min / m 2 or end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy category X Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant woman and may result in fetal harm .
A minimum weight gain , and no weight loss , is currently recommended for all pregnant women , including those who are already overweight or obese , due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy .
Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine ( d - and d / l - amphetamine ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known if Phentermine is excreted in human milk ; however , other amphetamines are present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because pediatric obesity is a chronic condition requiring long - term treatment , the use of this product , approved for short - term therapy , is not recommended .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Based on the reported excretion of Phentermine in urine , exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use caution when administering phentermine hydrochloride to patients with renal impairment .
In patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , limit the dosage of phentermine hydrochloride to 15 mg daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Phentermine hydrochloride has not been studied in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , including end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis ; avoid use in these populations .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Phentermine is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and other stimulant drugs have been extensively abused and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
9 . 3 Dependence Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times that recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
A severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
10 OVERDOSAGE The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
10 . 1 Acute Overdosage Manifestations of acute overdosage include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include tachycardia , arrhythmia , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Overdosage of pharmacologically similar compounds has resulted in fatal poisoning usually terminates in convulsions and coma .
Management of acute phentermine hydrochloride intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases phentermine excretion .
Intravenous phentolamine ( Regitine ® , CIBA ) has been suggested on pharmacologic grounds for possible acute , severe hypertension , if this complicates overdosage .
10 . 2 Chronic Intoxication Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Phentermine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic .
Its chemical name is α , α , - dimethylphenethylamine hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phentermine Hydrochloride is a white , odorless , hygroscopic , crystalline powder which is soluble in water and lower alcohols , slightly soluble in chloroform and insoluble in ether .
Phentermine hydrochloride is available as : a ) powder - filled capsules containing 15 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 12 mg Phentermine ) or 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , gelatin , lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the 15 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 , FD & C Red # 40 , titanium dioxide and the 30 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 3 , titanium dioxide .
b ) bead - filled capsules containing 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , sucrose , hypromellose , povidone , and talc .
In addition , the capsule contains FD & C blue # 1 / Brilliant blue FCF Aluminum Lake , D & C red # 28 and gelatin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as “ anorectics ” or “ anorexigenics . ”
It has not been established that the primary action of such drugs in treating obesity is one of appetite suppression since other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may also be involved .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Typical actions of amphetamines include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following the administration of Phentermine , Phentermine reaches peak concentrations ( C max ) after 3 to 4 . 4 hours .
Drug Interactions In a single - dose study comparing the exposures after oral administration of a combination capsule of 15 mg Phentermine and 92 mg topiramate to the exposures after oral administration of a 15 mg Phentermine capsule or a 92 mg topiramate capsule , there is no significant topiramate exposure change in the presence of Phentermine .
However in the presence of topiramate , Phentermine C max and AUC increase 13 % and 42 % , respectively .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment Cumulative urinary excretion of phentermine under uncontrolled urinary pH conditions was 62 % to 85 % .
Systemic exposure of phentermine may increase up to 91 % , 45 % , and 22 % in patients with severe , moderate , and mild renal impairment , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed with phentermine to determine the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In relatively short - term clinical trials , adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with “ anorectic ” drugs lost more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “ anorectic ” drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drugs prescribed , such as the physician - investigator , the population treated and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured over several years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks ’ duration ; thus , the total impact of drug - induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically limited .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 71335 - 0564 NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 1 30 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 2 7 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 3 42 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 4 28 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 5 60 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 6 14 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 7 21 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0564 - 8 90 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE Product : 71335 - 0678 NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 0 24 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 1 30 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 2 7 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 3 14 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 4 56 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 5 60 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 6 2 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 7 21 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 8 28 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0678 - 9 42 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNCELING INFORMATION Patients must be informed that Phentermine Hydrochloride is a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity , and that co - administration of Phentermine with other drugs for weight loss is not recommended [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Patients must be instructed on how much Phentermine to take , and when and how to take it [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advice pregnant women and nursing mothers not to use Phentermine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Patients must be informed about the risks of use of Phentermine ( including the risks discussed in Warnings and Precautions ) , about the symptoms of potential adverse reactions and when to contact a physician and / or take other action .
The risks include , but are not limited to : • Development of primary pulmonary hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Development of serious valvular heart disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Effects on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • The risk of an increase in blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • The risk of interactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] See also , for example , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 ) .
The patients must also be informed about • the potential for developing tolerance and actions if they suspect development of tolerance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] and • the risk of dependence and the potential consequences of abuse [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Tell patients to keep Phentermine in a safe place to prevent theft , accidental overdose , misuse or abuse .
Selling or giving away Phentermine may harm others and is against the law .
Regitine ® is a registered trademark of CIBA PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS , INC .
Manufactured by : KVK - TECH INC .
110 Terry Drive Newtown , PA 18940 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Item ID # 006070 / 04 12 / 2018 Manufacturer ’ s Code : 10702 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phentermine Hcl 30 mg ( CIV ) Caps .
( KVK ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phentermine HCI 30 mg ( CIV ) Capsule [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
