Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose sunscreen Use ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approaching a source of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove . contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the prodcut in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , stearoxytrimethylsilane , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces This product is not manufactured or distributed by Edgewell Personal Care , distributor of Banana Borat Sport Performance CoolZone Clear Sunscreen Spray UVA . UVB Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed !
( 888 ) 309 - 9030 DISTRIBUTED BY DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 085 . 000 / 085 AA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL STUDIO SELECTION SUN SPORT SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 Compare to Banana Boat Sport Performance Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + • Water - Resistant ( 80 minutes ) • UVA / UVB protection SPF 50 Octinoxate , Oxybenzone & Paraben Free NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
