[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS • Post - marketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin - associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the full prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age > 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR are a combination of canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events ( cardiovascular death , nonfatal myocardial infarction and nonfatal stroke ) in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) .
Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of end - stage kidney disease ( ESKD ) , doubling of serum creatinine , cardiovascular ( CV ) death , and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy with albuminuria greater than 300 mg / day .
INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR are a combination of canagliflozin , a sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor , and metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) , a biguanide , indicated : • as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ) • Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease ( 1 ) • Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of end - stage kidney disease , doubling of serum creatinine , cardiovascular death , and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy with albuminuria ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use : • INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients ( 1 ) Limitations of Use INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
It may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Individualize starting dose based on the patient ' s current regimen and renal function ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • Initiation of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , due to the metformin component ( 2 . 4 ) • INVOKAMET : one tablet , twice daily with meals , recommended starting dose of canagliflozin is 50 mg twice daily and metformin HCl 500 mg twice daily ( 2 . 2 ) • INVOKAMET XR : two tablets , once daily with the morning meal .
Swallow whole .
Never crush , cut , or chew ( 2 . 2 ) • Canagliflozin dose can be increased to a total daily dose of 300 mg in patients tolerating 100 mg who have an eGFR of 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or greater and require additional glycemic control .
Do not exceed a total daily canagliflozin dose of 300 mg ( 2 . 2 ) • Gradually escalate metformin HCl dose to reduce the gastrointestinal side effects while not exceeding a total daily dose of 2 , 000 mg ( 2 . 3 ) • Assess renal function before initiating and as clinically indicated ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • Dose adjustment for patients with renal impairment may be required ( 2 . 4 ) • Adjust canagliflozin dose when taken with an UDP - Glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) inducer ( 2 . 5 , 7 . 2 ) • May need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures ( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Prior to Initiation of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR • Assess renal function before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and as clinically indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] , Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• In patients with volume depletion , correct this condition before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 , 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Overview • INVOKAMET dosing is one tablet , twice daily with meals .
• INVOKAMET XR dosing is two tablets , once daily with the morning meal .
Swallow each tablet whole and never crush , cut , or chew .
• The starting and maintenance dose of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is based on the patient ' s current regimen and renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
• The maximum recommended daily dose is canagliflozin 300 mg and metformin HCl 2 , 000 mg in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) of 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or greater .
The recommended dosage for patients with renal impairment is shown in Table 1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Starting Dose Based on Patient ' s Current Regimen Individualize the starting dose of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR based on the patient ' s current regimen and renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] : Patients Currently not Treated with Either Canagliflozin or Metformin HCl • INVOKAMET : One tablet , twice daily , each tablet containing canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg ; • INVOKAMET XR : Two tablets , once daily , each tablet containing canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg .
Patients on Metformin HCl • INVOKAMET : One tablet , twice daily , where the total daily dose contains canagliflozin 100 mg and the same , or nearest appropriate , daily dose of metformin HCl ; • INVOKAMET XR : Two tablets , once daily , where the total daily dose contains canagliflozin 100 mg and the patient ' s same , or nearest appropriate , daily dose of metformin HCl .
Patients on Canagliflozin • INVOKAMET : One tablet , twice daily , where the total daily dose contains the same daily dose of canagliflozin and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg ; • INVOKAMET XR : Two tablets , once daily , where the total daily dose contains the patient ' s same daily dose of canagliflozin and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg .
Patients Already Treated with Canagliflozin and Metformin HCl • INVOKAMET : One tablet , twice daily , where the total daily dose contains the same daily dose of canagliflozin and the same , or nearest appropriate , daily dose of metformin HCl ; • INVOKAMET XR : Two tablets , once daily , where the total daily dose contains the same daily dose of canagliflozin and the same , or nearest appropriate , daily dose of metformin HCl .
Patients with eGFR of 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or Greater and Require Additional Glycemic Control • INVOKAMET : For patients tolerating canagliflozin 50 mg twice daily , increase the dose of canagliflozin to 150 mg twice daily , with gradual metformin HCl dose escalation based on tolerability [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] ; • INVOKAMET XR : For patients tolerating a daily dose of canagliflozin 100 mg , increase the dose to 300 mg once daily , with gradual metformin HCl dose escalation based on tolerability [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients on Evening Dose of Metformin HCl Extended - Release Tablets Patients taking an evening dose of metformin HCl extended - release tablets should skip their last dose before starting INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR the following morning .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment • Initiation of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is not recommended in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , due to the metformin component .
• Table 1 has dosage recommendations based on eGFR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosageestimated Glomerular Filtration Rate eGFR ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) Recommended Dosage eGFR 60 or greater [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
eGFR 45 to less than 60 Limit the dose of canagliflozin component to 100 mg daily ( two 50 mg tablets ) .
eGFR 30 to less than 45 Assess the benefit risk of continuing INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ; limit the dose of canagliflozin component to 100 mg daily ( two 50 mg tablets ) .
eGFR less than 30 Contraindicated ; discontinue INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
On dialysis Contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
2 . 5 Concomitant Use with UDP - Glucuronosyltransferase Enzyme Inducers Patients with eGFR 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or greater If an inducer of UDP - Glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) ( e . g . , rifampin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , ritonavir ) is co - administered with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to 200 mg in patients currently tolerating a total daily dose of canagliflozin 100 mg .
The total daily dose of canagliflozin may be increased to a maximum of 300 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 200 mg and who require additional glycemic control [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 If an inducer of UGTs ( e . g . , rifampin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , ritonavir ) is co - administered with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to a maximum of 200 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg .
2 . 6 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR of less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR if renal function is stable [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS INVOKAMET ( canagliflozin and metformin HCl ) tablets are available as follows : Canagliflozin Strength Metformin HCl Strength Color / Shape Tablet Identifiers [ 1 ] 50 mg 500 mg white / capsule - shaped CM 155 50 mg 1 , 000 mg beige / capsule - shaped CM 551 150 mg 500 mg yellow / capsule - shaped CM 215 150 mg 1 , 000 mg purple / capsule - shaped CM 611 [ 1 ] Embossing appears on both sides of tablet .
INVOKAMET XR ( canagliflozin and metformin HCl ) extended - release tablets are available as follows : Canagliflozin Strength Metformin HCl Strength Color / Shape Tablet Identifiers [ 1 ] 50 mg 500 mg almost white to light orange / oblong , biconvex CM1 50 mg 1 , 000 mg pink / oblong , biconvex CM3 150 mg 500 mg orange / oblong , biconvex CM2 150 mg 1 , 000 mg reddish brown / oblong , biconvex CM4 [ 1 ] Embossing appears on one side only of tablet .
INVOKAMET tablets : • Canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg • Canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg • Canagliflozin 150 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg • Canagliflozin 150 mg and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg ( 3 ) INVOKAMET XR extended - release tablets : • Canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg • Canagliflozin 50 mg and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg • Canagliflozin 150 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg • Canagliflozin 150 mg and metformin HCl 1 , 000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is contraindicated in patients : • With severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) or on dialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• With acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• With serious hypersensitivity reaction to canagliflozin or metformin HCl , such as anaphylaxis or angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• Severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) or on dialysis ( 4 ) • Metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Serious hypersensitivity reaction to canagliflozin or metformin HCl ( 4 , 5 . 9 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Lower Limb Amputation : Consider factors that may increase the risk of amputation before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Monitor patients for infection or ulcers of lower limb and discontinue if these occur ( 5 . 2 ) • Volume Depletion : May result in acute kidney injury .
Before initiating , assess and correct volume status in patients with renal impairment , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics .
Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy ( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Ketoacidosis : Assess patients who present with signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis for ketoacidosis , regardless of blood glucose level .
If suspected , discontinue , evaluate and treat promptly .
Before initiating , consider risk factors for ketoacidosis .
Patients may require monitoring and temporary discontinuation in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis ( 5 . 4 ) • Urosepsis and pyelonephritis : Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated ( 5 . 5 ) • Hypoglycemia : Consider a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination ( 5 . 6 ) • Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) : Serious , life - threatening cases have occurred in both females and males .
Assess patients presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise .
If suspected , institute prompt treatment ( 5 . 7 ) • Genital mycotic infections : Monitor and treat if indicated ( 5 . 8 ) • Hypersensitivity reactions : Discontinue and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve ( 5 . 9 ) • Bone fracture : Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR ( 5 . 10 ) • Vitamin B 12 deficiency : Metformin HCl may lower vitamin B 12 levels .
Measure hematological parameters annually and vitamin B 12 at 2 - to 3 - year intervals and manage any abnormalities ( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been post - marketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate : pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
In INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR - treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin is dialyzable , with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : Renal Impairment : The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ' s renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
• INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
Drug Interactions : The concomitant use of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance or increase metformin accumulation ( e . g . cationic drugs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Therefore , consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
Age 65 or Greater : The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ' s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Radiological Studies with Contrast : Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR if renal function is stable .
Surgery and Other Procedures : Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension and renal impairment .
INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
Hypoxic States : Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause pre - renal azotemia .
When such events occur , discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Excessive Alcohol Intake : Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism and this may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment have developed metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Lower Limb Amputation An increased risk of lower limb amputations associated with canagliflozin , a component of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , versus placebo was observed in CANVAS ( 5 . 9 vs 2 . 8 events per 1000 patient - years ) and CANVAS - R ( 7 . 5 vs 4 . 2 events per 1000 patient - years ) , two randomized , placebo - controlled trials evaluating patients with type 2 diabetes who had either established cardiovascular disease or were at risk for cardiovascular disease .
The risk of lower limb amputations was observed at both the 100 mg and 300 mg once daily dosage regimens .
The amputation data for CANVAS and CANVAS - R are shown in Tables 3 and 4 , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Amputations of the toe and midfoot ( 99 out of 140 patients with amputations receiving canagliflozin in the two trials ) were the most frequent ; however , amputations involving the leg , below and above the knee , were also observed ( 41 out of 140 patients with amputations receiving canagliflozin in the two trials ) .
Some patients had multiple amputations , some involving both lower limbs .
Lower limb infections , gangrene , and diabetic foot ulcers were the most common precipitating medical events leading to the need for an amputation .
The risk of amputation was highest in patients with a baseline history of prior amputation , peripheral vascular disease , and neuropathy .
Before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to the need for amputations , such as a history of prior amputation , peripheral vascular disease , neuropathy and diabetic foot ulcers .
Counsel patients about the importance of routine preventative foot care .
Monitor patients receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR for signs and symptoms of infection ( including osteomyelitis ) , new pain or tenderness , sores or ulcers involving the lower limbs , and discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR if these complications occur .
5 . 3 Volume Depletion Canagliflozin can cause intravascular volume contraction which may sometimes manifest as symptomatic hypotension or acute transient changes in creatinine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
There have been post - marketing reports of acute kidney injury which are likely related to volume depletion , some requiring hospitalizations and dialysis , in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including canagliflozin .
Patients with impaired renal function ( eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , elderly patients , or patients on loop diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension .
Before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in patients with one or more of these characteristics , assess and correct volume status .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion after initiating therapy .
5 . 4 Ketoacidosis Reports of ketoacidosis , a serious life - threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co - transporter - 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitors , including canagliflozin .
In placebo - controlled trials of patients with type 1 diabetes , the risk of ketoacidosis was increased in patients who received SGLT2 inhibitors compared to patients who received placebo .
The risk of ketoacidosis may be greater with higher doses .
Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have been reported in patients taking canagliflozin .
INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not indicated for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Patients treated with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels , as ketoacidosis associated with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg / dL .
If ketoacidosis is suspected , INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR should be discontinued , patient should be evaluated , and prompt treatment should be instituted .
Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin , fluid and carbohydrate replacement .
In many of the postmarketing reports , and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes , the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized and institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for diabetic ketoacidosis ( often less than 250 mg / dL ) .
Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , generalized malaise , and shortness of breath .
In some but not all cases , factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as insulin dose reduction , acute febrile illness , reduced caloric intake , surgery , pancreatic disorders suggesting insulin deficiency ( e . g . , type 1 diabetes , history of pancreatitis or pancreatic surgery ) , and alcohol abuse were identified .
Before initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency from any cause , caloric restriction , and alcohol abuse .
For patients who undergo scheduled surgery , consider temporarily discontinuing INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR for at least 3 days prior to surgery [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
Consider monitoring for ketoacidosis and temporarily discontinuing INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in other clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis ( e . g . , prolonged fasting due to acute illness or post - surgery ) .
Ensure risk factors for ketoacidosis are resolved prior to restarting INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of ketoacidosis and instruct patients to discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and seek medical attention immediately if signs and symptoms occur .
5 . 5 Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis There have been postmarketing reports of serious urinary tract infections including urosepsis and pyelonephritis requiring hospitalization in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including canagliflozin .
Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors increases the risk for urinary tract infections .
Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly , if indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Sulfonylurea or Insulin Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia .
INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin or an insulin secretagogue [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Therefore , a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
5 . 7 Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Reports of necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) , a rare but serious and life - threatening necrotizing infection requiring urgent surgical intervention , have been identified in postmarketing surveillance in patients with diabetes mellitus receiving SGLT2 inhibitors , including canagliflozin .
Cases have been reported in both females and males .
Serious outcomes have included hospitalization , multiple surgeries , and death .
Patients treated with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR presenting with pain or tenderness , erythema , or swelling in the genital or perineal area , along with fever or malaise , should be assessed for necrotizing fasciitis .
If suspected , start treatment immediately with broad - spectrum antibiotics and , if necessary , surgical debridement .
Discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , closely monitor blood glucose levels , and provide appropriate alternative therapy for glycemic control .
5 . 8 Genital Mycotic Infections Canagliflozin increases the risk of genital mycotic infections .
Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections and uncircumcised males were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor and treat appropriately .
5 . 9 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema and anaphylaxis , have been reported with canagliflozin .
These reactions generally occurred within hours to days after initiating canagliflozin .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue use of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR ; treat and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 10 Bone Fracture An increased risk of bone fracture , occurring as early as 12 weeks after treatment initiation , was observed in patients using canagliflozin in the CANVAS trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk prior to initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 11 Vitamin B 12 Levels In metformin HCl clinical trials of 29 - week duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B 12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B 12 absorption from the B 12 - intrinsic factor complex , may be associated with anemia but appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin HCl or vitamin B 12 supplementation .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B 12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B 12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters on an annual basis and vitamin B 12 at 2 - to 3 - year intervals in patients on INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and manage any abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Lactic Acidosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] • Lower Limb Amputation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Volume Depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Sulfonylurea or Insulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Genital Mycotic Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Bone Fracture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Vitamin B 12 Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Most common adverse reactions associated with canagliflozin ( 5 % or greater incidence ) : female genital mycotic infections , urinary tract infection , and increased urination ( 6 . 1 ) • Most common adverse reactions associated with metformin HCl ( 5 % or greater incidence ) are diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , flatulence , asthenia , indigestion , abdominal discomfort , and headache ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Pool of Placebo - Controlled Trials for Glycemic Control Canagliflozin The data in Table 2 is derived from four 26 - week placebo - controlled trials where canagliflozin was used as monotherapy in one trial and as add - on therapy in three trials .
These data reflect exposure of 1 , 667 patients to canagliflozin and a mean duration of exposure to canagliflozin of 24 weeks with 1 , 275 patients exposed to a combination of canagliflozin and metformin HCl .
Patients received canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 833 ) , canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 834 ) or placebo ( N = 646 ) once daily .
The mean daily dose of metformin HCl was 2 , 138 mg ( SD 337 . 3 ) for the 1 , 275 patients in the three placebo - controlled metformin HCl add - on trials .
The mean age of the population was 56 years and 2 % were older than 75 years of age .
Fifty percent ( 50 % ) of the population was male and 72 % were Caucasian , 12 % were Asian , and 5 % were Black or African American .
At baseline the population had diabetes for an average of 7 . 3 years , had a mean HbA 1 C of 8 . 0 % and 20 % had established microvascular complications of diabetes .
Baseline renal function was normal or mildly impaired ( mean eGFR 88 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
Table 2 shows common adverse reactions associated with the use of canagliflozin .
These adverse reactions were not present at baseline , occurred more commonly on canagliflozin than on placebo , and occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with either canagliflozin 100 mg or canagliflozin 300 mg .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions from Pool of Four 26 – Week Placebo - Controlled Studies Reported in ≥ 2 % of Canagliflozin - Treated Patients [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction Placebo N = 646 Canagliflozin 100 mg N = 833 Canagliflozin 300 mg N = 834 Note : Percentages were weighted by studies .
Study weights were proportional to the harmonic mean of the three treatment sample sizes .
Urinary tract infections [ 2 ] 3 . 8 % 5 . 9 % 4 . 4 % Increased urination [ 3 ] 0 . 7 % 5 . 1 % 4 . 6 % Thirst [ 4 ] 0 . 1 % 2 . 8 % 2 . 4 % Constipation 0 . 9 % 1 . 8 % 2 . 4 % Nausea 1 . 6 % 2 . 1 % 2 . 3 % N = 312 N = 425 N = 430 Female genital mycotic infections [ 5 ] 2 . 8 % 10 . 6 % 11 . 6 % Vulvovaginal pruritus 0 . 0 % 1 . 6 % 3 . 2 % N = 334 N = 408 N = 404 Male genital mycotic infections [ 6 ] 0 . 7 % 4 . 2 % 3 . 8 % [ 1 ] The four placebo - controlled trials included one monotherapy trial and three add - on combination trials with metformin HCl , metformin HCl and sulfonylurea , or metformin HCl and pioglitazone .
[ 2 ] Urinary tract infections include the following adverse reactions : Urinary tract infection , Cystitis , Kidney infection , and Urosepsis .
[ 3 ] Increased urination includes the following adverse reactions : Polyuria , Pollakiuria , Urine output increased , Micturition urgency , and Nocturia .
[ 4 ] Thirst includes the following adverse reactions : Thirst , Dry mouth , and Polydipsia .
[ 5 ] Female genital mycotic infections include the following adverse reactions : Vulvovaginal candidiasis , Vulvovaginal mycotic infection , Vulvovaginitis , Vaginal infection , Vulvitis , and Genital infection fungal .
[ 6 ] Male genital mycotic infections include the following adverse reactions : Balanitis or Balanoposthitis , Balanitis candida , and Genital infection fungal .
Abdominal pain was also more commonly reported in patients taking canagliflozin 100 mg ( 1 . 8 % ) , 300 mg ( 1 . 7 % ) than in patients taking placebo ( 0 . 8 % ) .
Canagliflozin and Metformin HCl The incidence and type of adverse reactions in the three 26 - week placebo - controlled metformin HCl tablets add - on trials , representing a majority of data from the four 26 - week placebo - controlled trials , was similar to the adverse reactions described in Table 2 .
There were no additional adverse reactions identified in the pooling of these three placebo - controlled trials that included metformin HCl tablets relative to the four placebo - controlled trials .
In a trial with canagliflozin as initial combination therapy with metformin HCl [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , an increased incidence of diarrhea was observed in the canagliflozin and metformin HCl combination groups ( 4 . 2 % ) compared to canagliflozin or metformin HCl monotherapy groups ( 1 . 7 % ) .
Placebo - Controlled Trial in Diabetic Nephropathy The occurrence of adverse reactions for canagliflozin was evaluated in patients participating in CREDENCE , a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy with albuminuria ˃ 300 mg / day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
These data reflect exposure of 2 , 201 patients to canagliflozin and a mean duration of exposure to canagliflozin of 137 weeks .
• The rate of lower limb amputations associated with the use of canagliflozin 100 mg relative to placebo was 12 . 3 vs 11 . 2 events per 1000 patient - years , respectively , with 2 . 6 years mean duration of follow - up .
• Incidence rates of adjudicated events of diabetic ketoacidosis ( DKA ) were 0 . 21 ( 0 . 5 % , 12 / 2 , 200 ) and 0 . 03 ( 0 . 1 % , 2 / 2 , 197 ) per 100 patient - years of follow - up with canagliflozin 100 mg and placebo , respectively .
• The incidence of hypotension was 2 . 8 % and 1 . 5 % on canagliflozin 100 mg and placebo , respectively .
Pool of Placebo - and Active - Controlled Trials for Glycemic Control and Cardiovascular Outcomes The occurrence of adverse reactions for canagliflozin was evaluated in patients participating in placebo - and active - controlled trials and in an integrated analysis of two cardiovascular trials , CANVAS and CANVAS - R .
The types and frequency of common adverse reactions observed in the pool of eight clinical trials ( which reflect an exposure of 6 , 177 patients to canagliflozin ) were consistent with those listed in Table 2 .
Percentages were weighted by studies .
Study weights were proportional to the harmonic mean of the three treatment sample sizes .
In this pool , canagliflozin was also associated with the adverse reactions of fatigue ( 1 . 8 % , 2 . 2 % , and 2 . 0 % with comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively ) and loss of strength or energy ( i . e . , asthenia ) ( 0 . 6 % , 0 . 7 % , and 1 . 1 % with comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively ) .
In the pool of eight clinical trials , the incidence rate of pancreatitis ( acute or chronic ) was 0 . 1 % , 0 . 2 % , and 0 . 1 % receiving comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
In the pool of eight clinical trials , hypersensitivity - related adverse reactions ( including erythema , rash , pruritus , urticaria , and angioedema ) was 3 . 0 % , 3 . 8 % , and 4 . 2 % of patients receiving comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
Five patients experienced serious adverse reactions of hypersensitivity with canagliflozin , which included 4 patients with urticaria and 1 patient with a diffuse rash and urticaria occurring within hours of exposure to canagliflozin .
Among these patients , 2 patients discontinued canagliflozin .
One patient with urticaria had recurrence when canagliflozin was re - initiated .
Photosensitivity - related adverse reactions ( including photosensitivity reaction , polymorphic light eruption , and sunburn ) occurred in 0 . 1 % , 0 . 2 % , and 0 . 2 % of patients receiving comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
Other adverse reactions occurring more frequently on canagliflozin than on comparator were : Lower Limb Amputation An increased risk of lower limb amputations associated with canagliflozin was observed in CANVAS ( 5 . 9 vs 2 . 8 events per 1000 patient - years ) and CANVAS - R ( 7 . 5 vs 4 . 2 events per 1000 patient - years ) , two randomized , placebo - controlled trials evaluating patients with type 2 diabetes who had either established cardiovascular disease or were at risk for cardiovascular disease .
Patients in CANVAS and CANVAS - R were followed for an average of 5 . 7 and 2 . 1 years , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The amputation data for CANVAS and CANVAS - R are shown in Tables 3 and 4 , respectively .
Table 3 : CANVAS Amputations Placebo N = 1441 Canagliflozin 100 mg N = 1445 Canagliflozin 300 mg N = 1441 Canagliflozin ( Pooled ) N = 2886 Note : Incidence is based on the number of patients with at least one amputation , and not the total number of amputation events .
A patient ' s follow - up is calculated from Day 1 to the first amputation event date .
Some patients had more than one amputation .
Patients with an amputation , n ( % ) 22 ( 1 . 5 ) 50 ( 3 . 5 ) 45 ( 3 . 1 ) 95 ( 3 . 3 ) Total amputations 33 83 79 162 Amputation incidence rate ( per 1000 patient - years ) 2 . 8 6 . 2 5 . 5 5 . 9 Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) -- 2 . 24 ( 1 . 36 , 3 . 69 ) 2 . 01 ( 1 . 20 , 3 . 34 ) 2 . 12 ( 1 . 34 , 3 . 38 ) Table 4 : CANVAS - R Amputations Placebo N = 2903 Canagliflozin 100 mg ( with up - titration to 300 mg ) N = 2904 Note : Incidence is based on the number of patients with at least one amputation , and not the total number of amputation events .
A patient ' s follow - up is calculated from Day 1 to the first amputation event date .
Some patients had more than one amputation .
Patients with an amputation , n ( % ) 25 ( 0 . 9 ) 45 ( 1 . 5 ) Total amputations 36 59 Amputation incidence rate ( per 1000 patient - years ) 4 . 2 7 . 5 Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) -- 1 . 80 ( 1 . 10 , 2 . 93 ) Renal Cell Carcinoma In the CANVAS trial ( mean duration of follow - up of 5 . 7 years ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] , the incidence of renal cell carcinoma was 0 . 15 % ( 2 / 1331 ) and 0 . 29 % ( 8 / 2716 ) for placebo and canagliflozin , respectively , excluding patients with less than 6 months of follow - up , less than 90 days of treatment , or a history of renal cell carcinoma .
A causal relationship to canagliflozin could not be established due to the limited number of cases .
Volume Depletion - Related Adverse Reactions Canagliflozin results in an osmotic diuresis , which may lead to reductions in intravascular volume .
In clinical trials for glycemic control , treatment with canagliflozin was associated with a dose - dependent increase in the incidence of volume depletion - related adverse reactions ( e . g . , hypotension , postural dizziness , orthostatic hypotension , syncope , and dehydration ) .
An increased incidence was observed in patients on the 300 mg dose .
The three factors associated with the largest increase in volume depletion - related adverse reactions in these trials were the use of loop diuretics , moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , and age 75 years and older ( Table 5 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 and 8 . 6 ) ] .
Table 5 : Patients With at Least One Volume Depletion - Related Adverse Reaction ( Pooled Results from 8 Clinical Trials for Glycemic Control ) Baseline Characteristic Comparator Group [ 1 ] % Canagliflozin 100 mg % Canagliflozin 300 mg % Overall population 1 . 5 % 2 . 3 % 3 . 4 % 75 years of age and older [ 2 ] 2 . 6 % 4 . 9 % 8 . 7 % eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 null 2 . 5 % 4 . 7 % 8 . 1 % Use of loop diuretic null 4 . 7 % 3 . 2 % 8 . 8 % [ 1 ] Includes placebo and active - comparator groups [ 2 ] Patients could have more than 1 of the listed risk factors Falls In a pool of nine clinical trials with mean duration of exposure to canagliflozin of 85 weeks , the proportion of patients who experienced falls was 1 . 3 % , 1 . 5 % , and 2 . 1 % with comparator , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
The higher risk of falls for patients treated with canagliflozin was observed within the first few weeks of treatment .
Genital Mycotic Infections In the pool of four placebo - controlled clinical trials for glycemic control , female genital mycotic infections ( e . g . , vulvovaginal mycotic infection , vulvovaginal candidiasis , and vulvovaginitis ) occurred in 2 . 8 % , 10 . 6 % , and 11 . 6 % of females treated with placebo , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections on canagliflozin .
Female patients who developed genital mycotic infections on canagliflozin were more likely to experience recurrence and require treatment with oral or topical antifungal agents and anti - microbial agents .
In females , discontinuation due to genital mycotic infections occurred in 0 % and 0 . 7 % of patients treated with placebo and canagliflozin , respectively .
In the pool of four placebo - controlled clinical trials , male genital mycotic infections ( e . g . , candidal balanitis , balanoposthitis ) occurred in 0 . 7 % , 4 . 2 % , and 3 . 8 % of males treated with placebo , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
Male genital mycotic infections occurred more commonly in uncircumcised males and in males with a prior history of balanitis or balanoposthitis .
Male patients who developed genital mycotic infections on canagliflozin were more likely to experience recurrent infections ( 22 % on canagliflozin versus none on placebo ) , and require treatment with oral or topical antifungal agents and anti - microbial agents than patients on comparators .
In males , discontinuations due to genital mycotic infections occurred in 0 % and 0 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo and canagliflozin , respectively .
In the pooled analysis of 8 randomized trials evaluating glycemic control , phimosis was reported in 0 . 3 % of uncircumcised male patients treated with canagliflozin and 0 . 2 % required circumcision to treat the phimosis .
Hypoglycemia In canagliflozin glycemic control trials , hypoglycemia was defined as any event regardless of symptoms , where biochemical hypoglycemia was documented ( any glucose value below or equal to 70 mg / dL ) .
Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event consistent with hypoglycemia where the patient required the assistance of another person to recover , lost consciousness , or experienced a seizure ( regardless of whether biochemical documentation of a low glucose value was obtained ) .
In individual clinical trials of glycemic control [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , episodes of hypoglycemia occurred at a higher rate when canagliflozin was co - administered with insulin or sulfonylureas ( Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Incidence of Hypoglycemia [ 1 ] in Randomized Clinical Studies of Glycemic Control Monotherapy ( 26 weeks ) Placebo ( N = 192 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 195 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 197 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 5 ( 2 . 6 ) 7 ( 3 . 6 ) 6 ( 3 . 0 ) In Combination with Metformin HCl ( 26 weeks ) Placebo + Metformin HCl ( N = 183 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 368 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 367 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 3 ( 1 . 6 ) 16 ( 4 . 3 ) 17 ( 4 . 6 ) Severe [ N ( % ) ] [ 2 ] 0 ( 0 ) 1 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 ( 0 . 3 ) In Combination with Metformin HCl ( 18 weeks ) [ 3 ] Placebo ( N = 93 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 93 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 93 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 3 ( 3 . 2 ) 4 ( 4 . 3 ) 3 ( 3 . 2 ) In Combination with Metformin HCl + Sulfonylurea ( 26 weeks ) Placebo + Metformin HCl + Sulfonylurea ( N = 156 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl + Sulfonylurea ( N = 157 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl + Sulfonylurea ( N = 156 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 24 ( 15 . 4 ) 43 ( 27 . 4 ) 47 ( 30 . 1 ) Severe [ N ( % ) ] null 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 0 In Combination with Metformin HCl + Pioglitazone ( 26 weeks ) Placebo + Metformin HCl + Pioglitazone ( N = 115 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl + Pioglitazone ( N = 113 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl + Pioglitazone ( N = 114 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 3 ( 2 . 6 ) 3 ( 2 . 7 ) 6 ( 5 . 3 ) In Combination with Insulin ( 18 weeks ) Placebo ( N = 565 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 566 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 587 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 208 ( 36 . 8 ) 279 ( 49 . 3 ) 285 ( 48 . 6 ) Severe [ N ( % ) ] null 14 ( 2 . 5 ) 10 ( 1 . 8 ) 16 ( 2 . 7 ) In Combination with Insulin and Metformin HCl ( 18 weeks ) [ 4 ] Placebo ( N = 145 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 139 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 148 ) Overall [ N ( % ) ] 66 ( 45 . 5 ) 58 ( 41 . 7 ) 70 ( 47 . 3 ) Severe [ N ( % ) ] null 4 ( 2 . 8 ) 1 ( 0 . 7 ) 3 ( 2 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Number of patients experiencing at least one event of hypoglycemia based on either biochemically documented episodes or severe hypoglycemic events in the intent - to - treat population [ 2 ] Severe episodes of hypoglycemia were defined as those where the patient required the assistance of another person to recover , lost consciousness , or experienced a seizure ( regardless of whether biochemical documentation of a low glucose value was obtained ) [ 3 ] Phase 2 clinical study with twice daily dosing ( 50 mg or 150 mg twice daily in combination with metformin HCl ) [ 4 ] Subgroup of patients ( N = 287 ) from insulin substudy on canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl and insulin ( with or without other antiglycemic agents ) Bone Fracture In the CANVAS trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] , the incidence rates of all adjudicated bone fracture were 1 . 09 , 1 . 59 , and 1 . 79 events per 100 patient - years of follow - up to placebo , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
The fracture imbalance was observed within the first 26 weeks of therapy and remained through the end of the trial .
Fractures were more likely to be low trauma ( e . g . , fall from no more than standing height ) , and affect the distal portion of upper and lower extremities .
Metformin HCl The most common adverse reactions ( 5 % or greater incidence ) due to initiation of metformin HCl are diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , flatulence , asthenia , indigestion , abdominal discomfort , and headache .
Long - term treatment with metformin HCl has been associated with a decrease in vitamin B 12 , which may result in clinically significant vitamin B 12 deficiency ( e . g . , megaloblastic anemia ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Laboratory and Imaging Tests Increases in Serum Creatinine and Decreases in eGFR Initiation of canagliflozin causes an increase in serum creatinine and decrease in estimated GFR .
In patients with moderate renal impairment , the increase in serum creatinine generally does not exceed 0 . 2 mg / dL , occurs within the first 6 weeks of starting therapy , and then stabilizes .
Increases that do not fit this pattern should prompt further evaluation to exclude the possibility of acute kidney injury [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
The acute effect on eGFR reverses after treatment discontinuation suggesting acute hemodynamic changes may play a role in the renal function changes observed with canagliflozin .
Increases in Serum Potassium In a pooled population of patients ( N = 723 ) in glycemic control trials with moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 45 to less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , increases in serum potassium to greater than 5 . 4 mEq / L and 15 % above occurred in 5 . 3 % , 5 . 0 % , and 8 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
Severe elevations ( greater than or equal to 6 . 5 mEq / L ) occurred in 0 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo , no patients treated with canagliflozin 100 mg , and 1 . 3 % of patients treated with canagliflozin 300 mg .
In these patients , increases in potassium were more commonly seen in those with elevated potassium at baseline .
Among patients with moderate renal impairment , approximately 84 % were taking medications that interfere with potassium excretion , such as potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin - converting - enzyme inhibitors , and angiotensin - receptor blockers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
In CREDENCE , no difference in serum potassium , no increase in adverse events of hyperkalemia , and no increase in absolute ( > 6 . 5 mEq / L ) or relative ( > upper limit of normal and > 15 % increase from baseline ) increases in serum potassium were observed with canagliflozin 100 mg relative to placebo .
Increases in Low - Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol ( LDL - C ) and non - High - Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol ( non - HDL - C ) In the pool of four glycemic control placebo - controlled trials , dose - related increases in LDL - C with canagliflozin were observed .
Mean changes ( percent changes ) from baseline in LDL - C relative to placebo were 4 . 4 mg / dL ( 4 . 5 % ) and 8 . 2 mg / dL ( 8 . 0 % ) with canagliflozin 100 mg and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively .
The mean baseline LDL - C levels were 104 to 110 mg / dL across treatment groups .
Dose - related increases in non - HDL - C with canagliflozin were observed .
Mean changes ( percent changes ) from baseline in non - HDL - C relative to placebo were 2 . 1 mg / dL ( 1 . 5 % ) and 5 . 1 mg / dL ( 3 . 6 % ) with canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg , respectively .
The mean baseline non - HDL - C levels were 140 to 147 mg / dL across treatment groups .
Increases in Hemoglobin In the pool of four placebo - controlled trials of glycemic control , mean changes ( percent changes ) from baseline in hemoglobin were - 0 . 18 g / dL ( - 1 . 1 % ) with placebo , 0 . 47 g / dL ( 3 . 5 % ) with canagliflozin 100 mg , and 0 . 51 g / dL ( 3 . 8 % ) with canagliflozin 300 mg .
The mean baseline hemoglobin value was approximately 14 . 1 g / dL across treatment groups .
At the end of treatment , 0 . 8 % , 4 . 0 % , and 2 . 7 % of patients treated with placebo , canagliflozin 100 mg , and canagliflozin 300 mg , respectively , had hemoglobin above the upper limit of normal .
Decreases in Bone Mineral Density Bone mineral density ( BMD ) was measured by dual - energy X - ray absorptiometry in a clinical trial of 714 older adults ( mean age 64 years ) .
At 2 years , patients randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg and canagliflozin 300 mg had placebo - corrected declines in BMD at the total hip of 0 . 9 % and 1 . 2 % , respectively , and at the lumbar spine of 0 . 3 % and 0 . 7 % , respectively .
Additionally , placebo - adjusted BMD declines were 0 . 1 % at the femoral neck for both canagliflozin doses and 0 . 4 % at the distal forearm for patients randomized to canagliflozin 300 mg .
The placebo - adjusted change at the distal forearm for patients randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg was 0 % .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of canagliflozin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Canagliflozin Ketoacidosis Acute Kidney Injury Anaphylaxis , Angioedema Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) Metformin HCl Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring ( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance ( such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) may increase the accumulation of metformin .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use ( 7 . 1 ) • Alcohol : Warn patients against excessive intake ( 7 . 1 ) • UGT inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) : Canagliflozin exposure is reduced .
Adjust canagliflozin dose ( 2 . 5 , 7 . 2 ) • Digoxin : Monitor digoxin levels ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interactions with Metformin Table 7 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with MetforminCarbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Intervention : Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Examples : Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) Drugs That Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
Examples : Ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine Alcohol Clinical Impact : Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin HCl on lactate metabolism .
Intervention : Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact : Coadministration of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin .
Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact : Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
Intervention : When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , monitor for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , monitor for hypoglycemia .
Examples : Thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blockers , and isoniazid .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions with Canagliflozin Table 8 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with CanagliflozinUGT Enzyme Inducers Clinical Impact : May reduce the efficacy of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Intervention : For patients with eGFR 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or greater , if an inducer of UGTs is co - administered with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to 200 mg in patients currently tolerating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR with a total daily dose of canagliflozin 100 mg .
The total daily dose of canagliflozin may be increased to 300 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 200 mg and who require additional glycemic control .
For patients with eGFR less than 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , if an inducer of UGTs is co - administered with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , increase the total daily dose of canagliflozin to 200 mg in patients currently tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Examples : Rifampin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , ritonavir Digoxin Clinical Impact : Canagliflozin increased digoxin exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor patients taking INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR with concomitant digoxin for a need to adjust dose of digoxin .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interference Positive Urine Glucose Test Intervention : Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors as SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
Interference with 1 , 5 - anhydroglucitol ( 1 , 5 - AG ) Assay Intervention : Monitoring glycemic control with 1 , 5 - AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1 , 5 - AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors .
Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Advise females of the potential risk to a fetus especially during the second and third trimesters ( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Not recommended when breastfeeding ( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy ( 8 . 3 ) • Geriatrics : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to reduced intravascular volume .
Assess renal function more frequently ( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 , 8 . 5 ) • Renal impairment : Higher incidence of adverse reactions related to hypotension and renal function ( 2 . 4 , 5 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data showing adverse renal effects from canagliflozin , INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy .
Limited data with INVOKAMET , INVOKAMET XR or canagliflozin in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage .
Published studies with metformin HCl use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with metformin HCl and major birth defect or miscarriage risk ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal studies , adverse renal pelvic and tubule dilatations that were not reversible were observed in rats when canagliflozin was administered at an exposure 0 . 5 - times the 300 mg clinical dose , based on AUC during a period of renal development corresponding to the late second and third trimesters of human pregnancy .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when metformin HCl was administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 2 - and 6 - times , respectively , a 2000 mg clinical dose , based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 – 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with an HbA 1 C > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 – 25 % in women with a HbA 1 C > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from post - marketing studies have not reported a clear association with metformin HCl and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when metformin HCl was used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any metformin - associated risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Canagliflozin Canagliflozin dosed directly to juvenile rats from postnatal day ( PND ) 21 until PND 90 at doses of 4 , 20 , 65 , or 100 mg / kg increased kidney weights and dose dependently increased the incidence and severity of renal pelvic and tubular dilatation at all doses tested .
Exposure at the lowest dose was greater than or equal to 0 . 5 - times the 300 mg clinical dose , based on AUC .
These outcomes occurred with drug exposure during periods of renal development in rats that correspond to the late second and third trimester of human renal development .
The renal pelvic dilatations observed in juvenile animals did not fully reverse within a 1 month recovery period .
In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , canagliflozin was administered for intervals coinciding with the first trimester period of organogenesis in humans .
No developmental toxicities independent of maternal toxicity were observed when canagliflozin was administered at doses up to 100 mg / kg in pregnant rats and 160 mg / kg in pregnant rabbits during embryonic organogenesis or during a study in which maternal rats were dosed from gestation day ( GD ) 6 through PND 21 , yielding exposures up to approximately 19 - times the 300 mg clinical dose , based on AUC .
Metformin HCl Metformin HCl did not cause adverse developmental effects when administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits up to 600 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
This represents an exposure of about 2 - and 6 - times a 2000 mg clinical dose based on body surface area ( mg / m 2 ) for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Canagliflozin and Metformin HCl No adverse developmental effects were observed when canagliflozin and metformin HCl were co - administered to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at exposures up to 11 and 13 times , respectively , the 300 mg and 2000 mg clinical doses of canagliflozin and metformin HCl based on AUC .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of INVOKAMET , INVOKAMET XR or canagliflozin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Limited published studies report that metformin is present in human milk ( see Data ) .
However , there is insufficient information on the effects of metformin HCl on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of metformin HCl on milk production .
Canagliflozin is present in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Since human kidney maturation occurs in utero and during the first 2 years of life when lactational exposure may occur , there may be risk to the developing human kidney .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed infant , advise women that use of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not recommended while breastfeeding .
Data Published clinical lactation studies report that metformin is present in human milk which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 11 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 13 and 1 .
However , the studies were not designed to definitely establish the risk of use of metformin HCl during lactation because of small sample size and limited adverse event data collected in infants .
Radiolabeled canagliflozin administered to lactating rats on day 13 post - partum was present at a milk / plasma ratio of 1 . 40 , indicating that canagliflozin and its metabolites are transferred into milk at a concentration comparable to that in plasma .
Juvenile rats directly exposed to canagliflozin showed a risk to the developing kidney ( renal pelvic and tubular dilatations ) during maturation .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as therapy with metformin HCl may result in ovulation in some anovulatory women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in pediatric patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR Because renal function abnormalities can occur after initiating canagliflozin , metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and aging can be associated with reduced renal function , monitor renal function more frequently after initiating INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in the elderly and then adjust dose based on renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Canagliflozin In 13 clinical trials of canagliflozin , 2 , 294 patients 65 years and older , and 351 patients 75 years and older were exposed to canagliflozin .
Of these patients , 1 , 534 patients 65 years and older and 196 patients 75 years and older were exposed to the combination of canagliflozin and metformin HCl [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients 65 years and older had a higher incidence of adverse reactions related to reduced intravascular volume with canagliflozin ( such as hypotension , postural dizziness , orthostatic hypotension , syncope , and dehydration ) , particularly with the 300 mg daily dose , compared to younger patients ; a more prominent increase in the incidence was seen in patients who were 75 years and older [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Smaller reductions in HbA 1 C with canagliflozin relative to placebo were seen in older ( 65 years and older ; - 0 . 61 % with canagliflozin 100 mg and - 0 . 74 % with canagliflozin 300 mg relative to placebo ) compared to younger patients ( - 0 . 72 % with canagliflozin 100 mg and - 0 . 87 % with canagliflozin 300 mg relative to placebo ) .
Metformin HCl Controlled clinical trials of metformin HCl did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin HCl should be conservative in patients with advanced age due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dose adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Canagliflozin The efficacy and safety of canagliflozin for glycemic control were evaluated in a trial that included patients with moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to less than 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
These patients had less overall glycemic efficacy , and patients treated with canagliflozin 300 mg per day had increases in serum potassium , which were transient and similar by the end of study .
Patients with renal impairment using canagliflozin for glycemic control may also be more likely to experience hypotension and may be at higher risk for acute kidney injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Efficacy and safety studies with canagliflozin did not enroll patients with ESKD on dialysis or patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Canagliflozin is contraindicated in patients with ESKD on dialysis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Metformin HCl Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is contraindicated in severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) or in patients on dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin HCl in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin HCl has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin HCl use has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin HCl overdose cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In the event of an overdose with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , contact the Poison Control Center .
Employ the usual supportive measures ( e . g . , remove unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract , employ clinical monitoring , and institute supportive treatment ) as dictated by the patient ' s clinical status .
Canagliflozin was negligibly removed during a 4 - hour hemodialysis session .
Canagliflozin is not expected to be dialyzable by peritoneal dialysis .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful partly for removal of accumulated metformin from patients in whom INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR overdosage is suspected .
11 DESCRIPTION INVOKAMET ® ( canagliflozin and metformin HCl ) and INVOKAMET ® XR ( canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) contain canagliflozin and metformin HCl .
Canagliflozin Canagliflozin is an inhibitor of sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) , the transporter responsible for reabsorbing the majority of glucose filtered by the kidney .
Canagliflozin is chemically known as ( 1 S ) - 1 , 5 - anhydro - 1 - [ 3 - [ [ 5 - ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) - 2 - thienyl ] methyl ] - 4 - methylphenyl ] - D - glucitol hemihydrate and its molecular formula and weight are C 24 H 25 FO 5 S ∙ 1 / 2 H 2 O and 453 . 53 , respectively .
The structural formula for canagliflozin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Canagliflozin is practically insoluble in aqueous media from pH 1 . 1 to 12 . 9 .
Metformin HCl Metformin HCl is a biguanide chemically known as 1 , 1 - Dimethylbiguanide hydrochloride and its molecular formula and weight are C 4 H 11 N 5 ∙ HCl and 165 . 62 , respectively .
The structural formula for metformin HCl is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR • INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR are supplied as film - coated tablets for oral administration .
Each 50 mg / 500 mg tablet and 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablet contains 51 mg of canagliflozin equivalent to 50 mg canagliflozin ( anhydrous ) and 500 mg or 1 , 000 mg metformin HCl ( equivalent to metformin 389 . 93 mg and 779 . 86 mg , respectively ) .
• Each 150 mg / 500 mg tablet and 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablet contains 153 mg of canagliflozin equivalent to 150 mg canagliflozin ( anhydrous ) and 500 mg or 1 , 000 mg metformin HCl ( equivalent to metformin 389 . 93 mg and 779 . 86 mg , respectively ) .
INVOKAMET contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The magnesium stearate is vegetable - sourced .
The tablets are finished with a commercially available film - coating consisting of the following inactive ingredients : macrogol / PEG3350 , polyvinyl alcohol ( partially hydrolyzed ) , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide yellow ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg and 150 mg / 500 mg tablets only ) , iron oxide red ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg , 150 mg / 500 mg and 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) , and iron oxide black ( 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
INVOKAMET XR contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate ( vegetable - sourced ) , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene oxide , and silicified microcrystalline cellulose ( 50 mg / 500 mg and 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
The tablets are finished with a commercially available film - coating consisting of the following inactive ingredients : macrogol / PEG3350 , polyvinyl alcohol ( partially hydrolyzed ) , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , and iron oxide black ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg and 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
INVOKAMET XR tablets provide canagliflozin for immediate - release and metformin HCl for extended - release .
Each bilayer tablet is compressed from two separate granulates , one for each active ingredient of the tablet , and finished with a film - coating .
The metformin HCl extended - release layer is based on a polymer matrix which controls the drug release by passive diffusion through the swollen matrix in combination with tablet erosion .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Canagliflozin Sodium - glucose co - transporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) , expressed in the proximal renal tubules , is responsible for the majority of the reabsorption of filtered glucose from the tubular lumen .
Canagliflozin is an inhibitor of SGLT2 .
By inhibiting SGLT2 , canagliflozin reduces reabsorption of filtered glucose and lowers the renal threshold for glucose ( RT G ) , and thereby increases urinary glucose excretion ( UGE ) .
Canagliflozin increases the delivery of sodium to the distal tubule by blocking SGLT2 - dependent glucose and sodium reabsorption .
This is believed to increase tubuloglomerular feedback and reduce intraglomerular pressure .
Metformin HCl Metformin HCl is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Metformin HCl decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may decrease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Canagliflozin Following single and multiple oral doses of canagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes , dose - dependent decreases in RT G and increases in urinary glucose excretion were observed .
From a starting RT G value of approximately 240 mg / dL , canagliflozin at 100 mg and 300 mg once daily suppressed RT G throughout the 24 - hour period .
Data from single oral doses of canagliflozin in healthy volunteers indicate that , on average , the elevation in urinary glucose excretion approaches baseline by about 3 days for doses up to 300 mg once daily .
Maximal suppression of mean RT G over the 24 - hour period was seen with the 300 mg daily dose to approximately 70 to 90 mg / dL in patients with type 2 diabetes in Phase 1 trials .
The reductions in RT G led to increases in mean UGE of approximately 100 g / day in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with either 100 mg or 300 mg of canagliflozin .
The 24 - h mean RT G at steady state was similar following once daily and twice daily dosing regimens at the same total daily dose of 100 mg or 300 mg .
In patients with type 2 diabetes given 100 to 300 mg once daily over a 16 - day dosing period , reductions in RT G and increases in urinary glucose excretion were observed over the dosing period .
In this trial , plasma glucose declined in a dose - dependent fashion within the first day of dosing .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , active - comparator , 4 - way crossover trial , 60 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of canagliflozin 300 mg , canagliflozin 1 , 200 mg ( 4 times the maximum recommended dose ) , moxifloxacin , and placebo .
No meaningful changes in QTc interval were observed with either the recommended dose of 300 mg or the 1 , 200 mg dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics INVOKAMET Administration of INVOKAMET 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg fixed - dose combination with food resulted in no change in overall exposure of canagliflozin .
There was no change in metformin AUC ; however , the mean peak plasma concentration of metformin was decreased by 16 % when administered with food .
A delayed time to peak plasma concentration was observed for both components ( a delay of 2 hours for canagliflozin and 1 hour for metformin ) under fed conditions .
These changes are not likely to be clinically meaningful .
INVOKAMET XR After administration of INVOKAMET XR tablets with a high - fat breakfast , the peak ( C max ) and total ( AUC ) exposure of canagliflozin were not altered relative to dosing in the fasted state .
However , the AUC of metformin increased by approximately 61 % and C max increased by approximately 13 % .
Canagliflozin The pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin is essentially similar in healthy subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes .
Following single - dose oral administration of 100 mg and 300 mg of canagliflozin , peak plasma concentrations ( median T max ) of canagliflozin occurs within 1 to 2 hours post - dose .
Plasma C max and AUC of canagliflozin increased in a dose - proportional manner from 50 mg to 300 mg .
The apparent terminal half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) was 10 . 6 hours and 13 . 1 hours for the 100 mg and 300 mg doses , respectively .
Steady - state was reached after 4 to 5 days of once - daily dosing with canagliflozin 100 mg to 300 mg .
Canagliflozin does not exhibit time - dependent pharmacokinetics and accumulated in plasma up to 36 % following multiple doses of 100 mg and 300 mg .
The mean systemic exposure ( AUC ) at steady state was similar following once daily and twice daily dosing regimens at the same total daily dose of 100 mg or 300 mg .
Absorption Canagliflozin The mean absolute oral bioavailability of canagliflozin is approximately 65 % .
Metformin The absolute bioavailability of a metformin HCl 500 mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 % to 60 % .
Trials using single oral doses of metformin HCl 500 to 1 , 500 mg , and 850 to 2 , 550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Following a single oral dose of 1 , 000 mg metformin HCl extended - release tablets ( two 500 mg tablets ) after a meal , the time to reach maximum plasma metformin concentration ( T max ) is achieved at approximately 7 – 8 hours .
In both single and multiple - dose trials in healthy subjects , once daily 1 , 000 mg ( two 500 mg tablets ) dosing results in up to 35 % higher C max , of metformin relative to the immediate - release given as 500 mg twice daily without any change in overall systemic exposure , as measured by AUC .
Distribution Canagliflozin The mean steady - state volume of distribution of canagliflozin following a single intravenous infusion in healthy subjects was 83 . 5 L , suggesting extensive tissue distribution .
Canagliflozin is extensively bound to proteins in plasma ( 99 % ) , mainly to albumin .
Protein binding is independent of canagliflozin plasma concentrations .
Plasma protein binding is not meaningfully altered in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Metformin The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of metformin HCl 850 mg immediate - release tablets averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
Metabolism Canagliflozin O - glucuronidation is the major metabolic elimination pathway for canagliflozin , which is mainly glucuronidated by UGT1A9 and UGT2B4 to two inactive O - glucuronide metabolites .
CYP3A4 - mediated ( oxidative ) metabolism of canagliflozin is minimal ( approximately 7 % ) in humans .
Metformin Intravenous single - dose trials in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) or biliary excretion .
Excretion Canagliflozin Following administration of a single oral [ 14 C ] canagliflozin dose to healthy subjects , 41 . 5 % , 7 . 0 % , and 3 . 2 % of the administered radioactive dose was recovered in feces as canagliflozin , a hydroxylated metabolite , and an O - glucuronide metabolite , respectively .
Enterohepatic circulation of canagliflozin was negligible .
Approximately 33 % of the administered radioactive dose was excreted in urine , mainly as O - glucuronide metabolites ( 30 . 5 % ) .
Less than 1 % of the dose was excreted as unchanged canagliflozin in urine .
Renal clearance of canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg doses ranged from 1 . 30 to 1 . 55 mL / min .
Mean systemic clearance of canagliflozin was approximately 192 mL / min in healthy subjects following intravenous administration .
Metformin Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Specific Populations Trials characterizing the pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin and metformin after administration of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR were not conducted in patients with renal and hepatic impairment .
Descriptions of the individual components in this patient population are described below .
Renal Impairment Canagliflozin A single - dose , open - label trial evaluated the pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin 200 mg in subjects with varying degrees of renal impairment ( classified using the MDRD - eGFR formula ) compared to healthy subjects .
Renal impairment did not affect the C max of canagliflozin .
Compared to healthy subjects ( N = 3 ; eGFR greater than or equal to 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , plasma AUC of canagliflozin was increased by approximately 15 % , 29 % , and 53 % in subjects with mild ( N = 10 ) , moderate ( N = 9 ) , and severe ( N = 10 ) renal impairment , respectively , ( eGFR 60 to less than 90 , 30 to less than 60 , and 15 to less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , respectively ) , but was similar for ESKD ( N = 8 ) subjects and healthy subjects .
Increases in canagliflozin AUC of this magnitude are not considered clinically relevant .
The glucose lowering pharmacodynamic response to canagliflozin declines with increasing severity of renal impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Canagliflozin was negligibly removed by hemodialysis .
Metformin In patients with decreased renal function , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Following a single dose administration of metformin HCl extended - release tablets 500 mg in patients with mild and moderate renal failure ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the oral and renal clearance of metformin were decreased by 33 % and 50 % and 16 % and 53 % , respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Metformin peak and systemic exposure was 27 % and 61 % greater , respectively in mild renal impaired and 74 % and 2 . 36 - fold greater in moderate renal impaired patients as compared to healthy subjects [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Canagliflozin Relative to subjects with normal hepatic function , the geometric mean ratios for C max and AUC ∞ of canagliflozin were 107 % and 110 % , respectively , in subjects with Child - Pugh class A ( mild hepatic impairment ) and 96 % and 111 % , respectively , in subjects with Child - Pugh class B ( moderate hepatic impairment ) following administration of a single 300 mg dose of canagliflozin .
These differences are not considered to be clinically meaningful .
There is no clinical experience in patients with Child - Pugh class C ( severe ) hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Metformin No pharmacokinetic trials of metformin HCl tablets have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pharmacokinetic Effects of Age , Body Mass Index ( BMI ) / Weight , Gender and Race Canagliflozin Based on the population PK analysis with data collected from 1526 subjects , age , body mass index ( BMI ) / weight , gender , and race do not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Metformin Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender .
No trials of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
Canagliflozin Age had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of canagliflozin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Metformin Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic trials of metformin HCl tablets in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and C max is increased , compared with healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Drug - Drug Interactions INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR Pharmacokinetic drug interaction trials with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR have not been performed ; however , such trials have been conducted with the individual components canagliflozin and metformin HCl .
Co - administration of multiple doses of canagliflozin ( 300 mg ) and metformin HCl ( 2 , 000 mg ) given once daily did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either canagliflozin or metformin in healthy subjects .
Canagliflozin In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Canagliflozin did not induce CYP450 enzyme expression ( 3A4 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2B6 , and 1A2 ) in cultured human hepatocytes .
Canagliflozin did not inhibit the CYP450 isoenzymes ( 1A2 , 2A6 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 2E1 ) and weakly inhibited CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , and CYP3A4 based on in vitro studies with human hepatic microsomes .
Canagliflozin is a weak inhibitor of P - gp .
Canagliflozin is also a substrate of drug transporters P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and MRP2 .
In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Table 9 : Effect of Co – Administered Drugs on Systemic Exposures of CanagliflozinCo - Administered Drug Dose of Co - Administered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Canagliflozin null Geometric Mean Ratio ( Ratio With / Without Co - Administered Drug ) No Effect = 1 . 0 AUC [ 2 ] ( 90 % CI ) C max ( 90 % CI ) QD = once daily ; BID = twice daily See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) for the clinical relevance of the following : Rifampin 600 mg QD for 8 days 300 mg 0 . 49 ( 0 . 44 ; 0 . 54 ) 0 . 72 ( 0 . 61 ; 0 . 84 ) No dose adjustments of canagliflozin required for the following : Cyclosporine 400 mg 300 mg QD for 8 days 1 . 23 ( 1 . 19 ; 1 . 27 ) 1 . 01 ( 0 . 91 ; 1 . 11 ) Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol and 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel 200 mg QD for 6 days 0 . 91 ( 0 . 88 ; 0 . 94 ) 0 . 92 ( 0 . 84 ; 0 . 99 ) Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg QD for 35 days 300 mg QD for 7 days 1 . 12 ( 1 . 08 ; 1 . 17 ) 1 . 15 ( 1 . 06 ; 1 . 25 ) Metformin HCl 2 , 000 mg 300 mg QD for 8 days 1 . 10 ( 1 . 05 ; 1 . 15 ) 1 . 05 ( 0 . 96 ; 1 . 16 ) Probenecid 500 mg BID for 3 days 300 mg QD for 17 days 1 . 21 ( 1 . 16 ; 1 . 25 ) 1 . 13 ( 1 . 00 ; 1 . 28 ) [ 1 ] Single dose unless otherwise noted [ 2 ] AUC inf for drugs given as a single dose and AUC 24 h for drugs given as multiple doses Table 10 : Effect of Canagliflozin on Systemic Exposure of Co - Administered DrugsCo - Administered Drug Dose of Co - Administered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Canagliflozin null Geometric Mean Ratio ( Ratio With / Without Co - Administered Drug ) No Effect = 1 . 0 AUC [ 2 ] ( 90 % CI ) C max ( 90 % CI ) QD = once daily ; BID = twice daily ; INR = International Normalized Ratio See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) for the clinical relevance of the following : Digoxin 0 . 5 mg QD first day followed by 0 . 25 mg QD for 6 days 300 mg QD for 7 days Digoxin 1 . 20 ( 1 . 12 ; 1 . 28 ) 1 . 36 ( 1 . 21 ; 1 . 53 ) No dose adjustments of co - administered drug required for the following : Acetaminophen 1 , 000 mg 300 mg BID for 25 days Acetaminophen 1 . 06 [ 3 ] ( 0 . 98 ; 1 . 14 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 92 ; 1 . 09 ) Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol and 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel 200 mg QD for 6 days ethinyl estradiol 1 . 07 ( 0 . 99 ; 1 . 15 ) 1 . 22 ( 1 . 10 ; 1 . 35 ) Levonorgestrel 1 . 06 ( 1 . 00 ; 1 . 13 ) 1 . 22 ( 1 . 11 ; 1 . 35 ) Glyburide 1 . 25 mg 200 mg QD for 6 days Glyburide 1 . 02 ( 0 . 98 ; 1 . 07 ) 0 . 93 ( 0 . 85 ; 1 . 01 ) 3 - cis - hydroxy - glyburide 1 . 01 ( 0 . 96 ; 1 . 07 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 91 ; 1 . 08 ) 4 - trans - hydroxy - glyburide 1 . 03 ( 0 . 97 ; 1 . 09 ) 0 . 96 ( 0 . 88 ; 1 . 04 ) Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg QD for 35 days 300 mg QD for 7 days Hydrochlorothiazide 0 . 99 ( 0 . 95 ; 1 . 04 ) 0 . 94 ( 0 . 87 ; 1 . 01 ) Metformin HCl 2 , 000 mg 300 mg QD for 8 days Metformin 1 . 20 ( 1 . 08 ; 1 . 34 ) 1 . 06 ( 0 . 93 ; 1 . 20 ) Simvastatin 40 mg 300 mg QD for 7 days Simvastatin 1 . 12 ( 0 . 94 ; 1 . 33 ) 1 . 09 ( 0 . 91 ; 1 . 31 ) simvastatin acid 1 . 18 ( 1 . 03 ; 1 . 35 ) 1 . 26 ( 1 . 10 ; 1 . 45 ) Warfarin 30 mg 300 mg QD for 12 days ( R ) - warfarin 1 . 01 ( 0 . 96 ; 1 . 06 ) 1 . 03 ( 0 . 94 ; 1 . 13 ) ( S ) - warfarin 1 . 06 ( 1 . 00 ; 1 . 12 ) 1 . 01 ( 0 . 90 ; 1 . 13 ) INR 1 . 00 ( 0 . 98 ; 1 . 03 ) 1 . 05 ( 0 . 99 ; 1 . 12 ) [ 1 ] Single dose unless otherwise noted [ 2 ] AUC inf for drugs given as a single dose and AUC 24 h for drugs given as multiple doses [ 3 ] AUC 0 – 12 h Metformin Table 11 : Effect of Co – Administered Drugs on Plasma Metformin Systemic ExposuresCo - Administered Drug Dose of Co - Administered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( Ratio With / Without Co - Administered Drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] C max No dose adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 3 ] 0 . 98 [ 4 ] 0 . 99 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 09 null 1 . 22 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 05 null 1 . 07 null Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion increase the accumulation of metformin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Topiramate [ 5 ] 100 mg 500 mg 1 . 25 [ 6 ] 1 . 18 [ 1 ] Single dose unless otherwise noted [ 2 ] AUC = AUC 0 –∞ [ 3 ] Metformin HCl extended - release tablets 500 mg [ 4 ] Ratio of arithmetic means [ 5 ] Healthy volunteer study at steady state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours for 7 days .
Study conducted to assess pharmacokinetics only [ 6 ] Steady state AUC 0 – 12 h .
Table 12 : Effect of Metformin HCl on Co – Administered Drug Systemic ExposuresCo - Administered Drug Dose of Co - Administered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( Ratio With / Without Co - Administered Drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] C max No dose adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 3 ] 0 . 78 [ 4 ] 0 . 63 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 87 null 0 . 69 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 10 null 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 01 null 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 97 [ 5 ] 1 . 01 null Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 95 null 1 . 01 [ 1 ] Single dose unless otherwise noted [ 2 ] AUC = AUC 0 –∞ [ 3 ] AUC 0 – 24 hr reported [ 4 ] Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 [ 5 ] Ratio of arithmetic means .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR No animal studies have been conducted with the combined products in INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
The following data are based on findings in studies with canagliflozin and metformin HCl individually .
Canagliflozin Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity was evaluated in 2 - year studies conducted in CD1 mice and Sprague - Dawley rats .
Canagliflozin did not increase the incidence of tumors in mice dosed at 10 , 30 , or 100 mg / kg ( less than or equal to 14 times exposure from a 300 mg clinical dose ) .
Testicular Leydig cell tumors , considered secondary to increased luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , increased significantly in male rats at all doses tested ( 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg ) .
In a 12 - week clinical trial , LH did not increase in males treated with canagliflozin .
Renal tubular adenoma and carcinoma increased significantly in male and female rats dosed at 100 mg / kg , or approximately 12 - times exposure from a 300 mg clinical dose .
Also , adrenal pheochromocytoma increased significantly in males and numerically in females dosed at 100 mg / kg .
Carbohydrate malabsorption associated with high doses of canagliflozin was considered a necessary proximal event in the emergence of renal and adrenal tumors in rats .
Clinical trials have not demonstrated carbohydrate malabsorption in humans at canagliflozin doses of up to 2 - times the recommended clinical dose of 300 mg .
Mutagenesis Canagliflozin was not mutagenic with or without metabolic activation in the Ames assay .
Canagliflozin was mutagenic in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay with but not without metabolic activation .
Canagliflozin was not mutagenic or clastogenic in an in vivo oral micronucleus assay in rats and an in vivo oral Comet assay in rats .
Metformin HCl Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin HCl was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin HCl in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
Mutagenesis There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin HCl in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Impairment of Fertility Canagliflozin had no effects on the ability of rats to mate and sire or maintain a litter up to the high dose of 100 mg / kg ( approximately 14 times and 18 times the 300 mg clinical dose in males and females , respectively ) , although there were minor alterations in a number of reproductive parameters ( decreased sperm velocity , increased number of abnormal sperm , slightly fewer corpora lutea , fewer implantation sites , and smaller litter sizes ) at the highest dosage administered .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin HCl when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Glycemic Control Trials in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Canagliflozin has been studied in combination with metformin HCl alone , metformin HCl and sulfonylurea , metformin HCl and sitagliptin , metformin HCl and a thiazolidinedione ( i . e . , pioglitazone ) , and metformin HCl and insulin ( with or without other anti - hyperglycemic agents ) .
The efficacy of canagliflozin was compared to a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor ( sitagliptin ) , both as add - on combination therapy with metformin HCl and sulfonylurea , and a sulfonylurea ( glimepiride ) , both as add - on combination therapy with metformin HCl .
There have been no clinical efficacy trials conducted with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR ; however , bioequivalence of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR to canagliflozin and metformin HCl co - administered as individual tablets was demonstrated in healthy subjects .
Canagliflozin as Initial Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl A total of 1 , 186 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with diet and exercise participated in a 26 - week double - blind , active - controlled , parallel - group , 5 - arm , multicenter trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of initial therapy with canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl XR .
The median age was 56 years , 48 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 87 . 6 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
The median duration of diabetes was 1 . 6 years , and 72 % of patients were treatment naïve .
After completing a 2 - week single - blind placebo run - in period , patients were randomly assigned for a double - blind treatment period of 26 weeks to 1 of 5 treatment groups ( Table 13 ) .
The metformin HCl XR dose was initiated at 500 mg / day for the first week of treatment and then increased to 1 , 000 mg / day .
Metformin HCl XR or matching placebo was up - titrated every 2 – 3 weeks during the next 8 weeks of treatment to a maximum daily dose of 1 , 500 to 2 , 000 mg / day , as tolerated ; about 90 % of patients reached 2 , 000 mg / day .
At the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg and canagliflozin 300 mg in combination with metformin HCl XR resulted in a statistically significant greater improvement in HbA 1 C compared to their respective canagliflozin doses ( 100 mg and 300 mg ) alone or metformin HCl XR alone .
Table 13 : Results from 26 - Week Active - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin Alone or Canagliflozin as Initial Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl XR [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Metformin HCl XR ( N = 237 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 237 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg ( N = 238 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl XR ( N = 237 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl XR ( N = 237 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 81 8 . 78 8 . 77 8 . 83 8 . 90 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) [ 2 ] - 1 . 30 - 1 . 37 - 1 . 42 - 1 . 77 - 1 . 78 Difference from canagliflozin 100 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 3 ] - 0 . 40 [ 4 ] ( - 0 . 59 , - 0 . 21 ) Difference from canagliflozin 300 mg ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 0 . 36 null ( - 0 . 56 , - 0 . 17 ) Difference from metformin HCl XR ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 0 . 46 null ( - 0 . 66 , - 0 . 27 ) - 0 . 48 null ( - 0 . 67 , - 0 . 28 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 38 34 39 47 [ 5 ] 51 null [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population [ 2 ] There were 121 patients without week 26 efficacy data .
Analyses addressing missing data gave consistent results with the results provided in this table .
[ 3 ] Least squares mean adjusted for covariates including baseline value and stratification factor [ 4 ] Adjusted p = 0 . 001 [ 5 ] Adjusted p < 0 . 05 Canagliflozin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl A total of 1 , 284 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin HCl monotherapy ( greater than or equal to 2 , 000 mg / day or at least 1 , 500 mg / day if higher dose not tolerated ) participated in a 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl .
The mean age was 55 years , 47 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients already on the required metformin HCl dose ( N = 1009 ) were randomized after completing a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Patients taking less than the required metformin HCl dose or patients on metformin HCl in combination with another antihyperglycemic agent ( N = 275 ) were switched to metformin HCl monotherapy ( at doses described above ) for at least 8 weeks before entering the 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in .
After the placebo run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , sitagliptin 100 mg , or placebo , administered once daily as add - on therapy to metformin HCl .
At the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily resulted in a statistically significant improvement in HbA 1 C ( p < 0 . 001 for both doses ) compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl .
Canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily also resulted in a greater proportion of patients achieving an HbA 1 C less than 7 % , in significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , in improved postprandial glucose ( PPG ) , and in percent body weight reduction compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl ( see Table 14 ) .
Statistically significant ( p < 0 . 001 for both doses ) mean changes from baseline in systolic blood pressure relative to placebo were - 5 . 4 mmHg and - 6 . 6 mmHg with canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg , respectively .
Table 14 : Results from 26 - Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin in Combination with Metformin HCl [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Placebo + Metformin HCl ( N = 183 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 368 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 367 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 96 7 . 94 7 . 95 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 17 - 0 . 79 - 0 . 94 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 62 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 76 , - 0 . 48 ) - 0 . 77 null ( - 0 . 91 , - 0 . 64 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 30 46 null 58 null Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 164 169 173 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 2 - 27 - 38 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 30 null ( - 36 , - 24 ) - 40 null ( - 46 , - 34 ) 2 - hour Postprandial Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 249 258 262 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 10 - 48 - 57 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 38 null ( - 49 , - 27 ) - 47 null ( - 58 , - 36 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 86 . 7 88 . 7 85 . 4 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 1 . 2 - 3 . 7 - 4 . 2 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 2 . 5 null ( - 3 . 1 , - 1 . 9 ) - 2 . 9 null ( - 3 . 5 , - 2 . 3 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 Canagliflozin Compared to Glimepiride , Both as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl A total of 1 , 450 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin HCl monotherapy ( greater than or equal to 2 , 000 mg / day or at least 1 , 500 mg / day if higher dose not tolerated ) participated in a 52 - week , double - blind , active - controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl .
The mean age was 56 years , 52 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients tolerating maximally required metformin HCl dose ( N = 928 ) were randomized after completing a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Other patients ( N = 522 ) were switched to metformin HCl monotherapy ( at doses described above ) for at least 10 weeks , then completed a 2 - week single - blind run - in period .
After the 2 - week run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , or glimepiride ( titration allowed throughout the 52 - week trial to 6 or 8 mg ) , administered once daily as add - on therapy to metformin HCl .
As shown in Table 15 and Figure 1 , at the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg provided similar reductions in HbA 1 C from baseline compared to glimepiride when added to metformin HCl therapy .
Canagliflozin 300 mg provided a greater reduction from baseline in HbA 1 C compared to glimepiride , and the relative treatment difference was - 0 . 12 % ( 95 % CI : − 0 . 22 ; − 0 . 02 ) .
As shown in Table 15 , treatment with canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg daily provided greater improvements in percent body weight change , relative to glimepiride .
Table 15 : Results from 52 – Week Clinical Study Comparing Canagliflozin to Glimepiride in Combination with Metformin HCl [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 483 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl ( N = 485 ) Glimepiride ( titrated ) + Metformin HCl ( N = 482 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 78 7 . 79 7 . 83 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 82 - 0 . 93 - 0 . 81 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 01 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 11 , 0 . 09 ) - 0 . 12 null ( - 0 . 22 , - 0 . 02 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 54 60 56 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 165 164 166 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 24 - 28 - 18 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 6 ( - 10 , - 2 ) - 9 ( - 13 , - 5 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 86 . 8 86 . 6 86 . 6 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 4 . 2 - 4 . 7 1 . 0 Difference from glimepiride ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 5 . 2 [ 4 ] ( - 5 . 7 , - 4 . 7 ) - 5 . 7 null ( - 6 . 2 , - 5 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] Canagliflozin + metformin HCl is considered non - inferior to glimepiride + metformin HCl because the upper limit of this confidence interval is less than the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of < 0 . 3 % .
[ 4 ] p < 0 . 001 Figure 1 : Mean HbA 1 C Change at Each Time Point ( Completers ) and at Week 52 Using Last Observation Carried Forward ( mITT Population ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Canagliflozin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl and Sitagliptin A total of 217 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on the combination of metformin HCl ( greater than or equal to 1 , 500 mg / day ) and sitagliptin 100 mg / day ( or equivalent fixed - dose combination ) participated in a 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl and sitagliptin .
The mean age was 57 years , 58 % of patients were men , 73 % of patients were Caucasian , 15 % were Asian , and 12 % were Black or African - American .
The mean baseline eGFR was 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 and the mean baseline BMI was 32 kg / m 2 .
The mean duration of diabetes was 10 years .
Eligible patients entered a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period and were subsequently randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg or placebo , administered once daily as add - on to metformin HCl and sitagliptin .
Patients with a baseline eGFR of 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 or greater who were tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg and who required additional glycemic control ( fasting finger stick 100 mg / dL or greater at least twice within 2 weeks ) were up - titrated to canagliflozin 300 mg .
While up - titration occurred as early as Week 4 , most ( 90 % ) patients randomized to canagliflozin were up - titrated to canagliflozin 300 mg by 6 to 8 weeks .
At the end of 26 weeks , canagliflozin once daily resulted in a statistically significant improvement in HbA 1 C ( p < 0 . 001 ) compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and sitagliptin ( see Table 16 ) .
Table 16 : Results from 26 – Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin in Combination with Metformin HCl and SitagliptinEfficacy Parameter Placebo + Metformin HCl and Sitagliptin ( N = 108 [ 1 ] ) Canagliflozin + Metformin HCl and Sitagliptin ( N = 109 null ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 40 8 . 50 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 03 - 0 . 83 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] [ 3 ] - 0 . 81 [ 4 ] ( - 1 . 11 ; - 0 . 51 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % [ 5 ] 9 28 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) [ 6 ] Baseline ( mean ) 180 185 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 3 - 28 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) - 25 null ( - 39 ; - 11 ) [ 1 ] To preserve the integrity of randomization , all randomized patients were included in the analysis .
The patient who was randomized once to each arm was analyzed on canagliflozin .
[ 2 ] Early treatment discontinuation before week 26 , occurred in 11 . 0 % and 24 . 1 % of canagliflozin and placebo patients , respectively .
[ 3 ] Estimated using a multiple imputation method modeling a " wash - out " of the treatment effect for patients having missing data who discontinued treatment .
Missing data was imputed only at week 26 and analyzed using ANCOVA .
[ 4 ] p < 0 . 001 [ 5 ] Patients without week 26 efficacy data were considered as non - responders when estimating the proportion achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % .
[ 6 ] Estimated using a multiple imputation method modeling a " wash - out " of the treatment effect for patients having missing data who discontinued treatment .
A mixed model for repeated measures was used to analyze the imputed data .
Canagliflozin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea A total of 469 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on the combination of metformin HCl ( greater than or equal to 2 , 000 mg / day or at least 1 , 500 mg / day if higher dose not tolerated ) and sulfonylurea ( maximal or near - maximal effective dose ) participated in a 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl and sulfonylurea .
The mean age was 57 years , 51 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients already on the protocol - specified doses of metformin HCl and sulfonylurea ( N = 372 ) entered a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Other patients ( N = 97 ) were required to be on a stable protocol - specified dose of metformin HCl and sulfonylurea for at least 8 weeks before entering the 2 - week run - in period .
Following the run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , or placebo administered once daily as add - on to metformin HCl and sulfonylurea .
At the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily resulted in a statistically significant improvement in HbA 1 C ( p < 0 . 001 for both doses ) compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and sulfonylurea .
Canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily also resulted in a greater proportion of patients achieving an HbA 1 C less than 7 . 0 % , in a significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , and in percent body weight reduction compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and sulfonylurea ( see Table 17 ) .
Table 17 : Results from 26 – Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin in Combination with Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Placebo + Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea ( N = 156 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea ( N = 157 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea ( N = 156 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 12 8 . 13 8 . 13 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 13 - 0 . 85 - 1 . 06 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 71 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 90 , - 0 . 52 ) - 0 . 92 null ( - 1 . 11 , - 0 . 73 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 18 43 null 57 null Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 170 173 168 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 4 - 18 - 31 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 22 null ( - 31 , - 13 ) - 35 null ( - 44 , - 25 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 90 . 8 93 . 5 93 . 5 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 7 - 2 . 1 - 2 . 6 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 1 . 4 null ( - 2 . 1 , - 0 . 7 ) - 2 . 0 null ( - 2 . 7 , - 1 . 3 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 Canagliflozin Compared to Sitagliptin , Both as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea A total of 755 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on the combination of metformin HCl ( greater than or equal to 2 , 000 mg / day or at least 1 , 500 mg / day if higher dose not tolerated ) and sulfonylurea ( near - maximal or maximal effective dose ) participated in a 52 week , double - blind , active - controlled trial to compare the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin 300 mg versus sitagliptin 100 mg in combination with metformin HCl and sulfonylurea .
The mean age was 57 years , 56 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 88 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients already on protocol - specified doses of metformin HCl and sulfonylurea ( N = 716 ) entered a 2 - week single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Other patients ( N = 39 ) were required to be on a stable protocol - specified dose of metformin HCl and sulfonylurea for at least 8 weeks before entering the 2 - week run - in period .
Following the run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 300 mg or sitagliptin 100 mg as add - on to metformin HCl and sulfonylurea .
As shown in Table 18 and Figure 2 , at the end of treatment , canagliflozin 300 mg provided greater HbA 1 C reduction compared to sitagliptin 100 mg when added to metformin HCl and sulfonylurea ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Canagliflozin 300 mg resulted in a mean percent change in body weight from baseline of - 2 . 5 % compared to + 0 . 3 % with sitagliptin 100 mg .
A mean change in systolic blood pressure from baseline of - 5 . 06 mmHg was observed with canagliflozin 300 mg compared to + 0 . 85 mmHg with sitagliptin 100 mg .
Table 18 : Results from 52 − Week Clinical Study Comparing Canagliflozin to Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea ( N = 377 ) Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin HCl and Sulfonylurea ( N = 378 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 12 8 . 13 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 1 . 03 - 0 . 66 Difference from sitagliptin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 37 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 50 , - 0 . 25 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 48 35 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 170 164 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 30 - 6 Difference from sitagliptin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 24 ( - 30 , - 18 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 87 . 6 89 . 6 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 2 . 5 0 . 3 Difference from sitagliptin ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 2 . 8 [ 4 ] ( - 3 . 3 , - 2 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] Canagliflozin + metformin HCl + sulfonylurea is considered non - inferior to sitagliptin + metformin HCl + sulfonylurea because the upper limit of this confidence interval is less than the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of < 0 . 3 % .
[ 4 ] p < 0 . 001 Figure 2 : Mean HbA 1 C Change at Each Time Point ( Completers ) and at Week 52 Using Last Observation Carried Forward ( mITT Population ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Canagliflozin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin HCl and Pioglitazone A total of 342 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on the combination of metformin HCl ( greater than or equal to 2 , 000 mg / day or at least 1 , 500 mg / day if higher dose not tolerated ) and pioglitazone ( 30 or 45 mg / day ) participated in a 26 - week , double -- blind , placebo - controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl and pioglitazone .
The mean age was 57 years , 63 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 86 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients already on protocol - specified doses of metformin HCl and pioglitazone ( N = 163 ) entered a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Other patients ( N = 181 ) were required to be on stable protocol - specified doses of metformin HCl and pioglitazone for at least 8 weeks before entering the 2 - week run - in period .
Following the run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , or placebo , administered once daily as add - on to metformin HCl and pioglitazone .
At the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily resulted in a statistically significant improvement in HbA 1 C ( p < 0 . 001 for both doses ) compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and pioglitazone .
Canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily also resulted in a greater proportion of patients achieving an HbA 1 C less than 7 % , in significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , and in percent body weight reduction compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and pioglitazone ( see Table 19 ) .
Statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 for both doses ) mean changes from baseline in systolic blood pressure relative to placebo were - 4 . 1 mmHg and - 3 . 5 mmHg with canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg , respectively .
Table 19 : Results from 26 – Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin in Combination with Metformin HCl and Pioglitazone [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Placebo + Metformin HCl and Pioglitazone ( N = 115 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl and Pioglitazone ( N = 113 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl and Pioglitazone ( N = 114 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 00 7 . 99 7 . 84 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 26 - 0 . 89 - 1 . 03 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 62 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 81 , - 0 . 44 ) - 0 . 76 null ( - 0 . 95 , - 0 . 58 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 33 47 null 64 null Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( mean ) 164 169 164 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 3 - 27 - 33 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 29 null ( - 37 , - 22 ) - 36 null ( - 43 , - 28 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 94 . 0 94 . 2 94 . 4 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) - 0 . 1 - 2 . 8 - 3 . 8 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 2 . 7 null ( - 3 . 6 , - 1 . 8 ) - 3 . 7 null ( - 4 . 6 , - 2 . 8 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 Canagliflozin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Insulin ( With or Without Other Anti - Hyperglycemic Agents , Including Metformin HCl ) A total of 1 , 718 patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on insulin greater than or equal to 30 units / day or insulin in combination with other antihyperglycemic agents participated in an 18 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled substudy of a cardiovascular trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canagliflozin in combination with insulin .
Of these patients , a subgroup of 432 patients with inadequate glycemic control received canagliflozin or placebo plus metformin HCl and ≥ 30 units / day of insulin over 18 weeks .
In this subgroup , the mean age was 61 years , 67 % of patients were men , and the mean baseline eGFR was 81 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Patients on metformin HCl in combination with basal , bolus , or basal / bolus insulin for at least 10 weeks entered a 2 - week , single - blind , placebo run - in period .
Approximately 74 % of these patients were on a background of metformin HCl and basal / bolus insulin regimen .
After the run - in period , patients were randomized to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , or placebo , administered once daily as add - on to metformin HCl and insulin .
The mean daily insulin dose at baseline was 93 units , which was similar across treatment groups .
At the end of treatment , canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily resulted in a statistically significant improvement in HbA 1 C ( p < 0 . 001 for both doses ) compared to placebo when added to metformin HCl and insulin .
Canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg once daily also resulted in a greater proportion of patients achieving an HbA 1 C less than 7 % , in significant reductions in fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , and in percent body weight reductions compared to placebo ( see Table 20 ) .
Statistically significant ( p = 0 . 023 for the 100 mg and p < 0 . 001 for the 300 mg dose ) mean change from baseline in systolic blood pressure relative to placebo was – 3 . 5 mmHg and – 6 mmHg with canagliflozin 100 mg and 300 mg , respectively .
Fewer patients on canagliflozin in combination with metformin HCl and insulin required glycemic rescue therapy : 3 . 6 % of patients receiving canagliflozin 100 mg , 2 . 7 % of patients receiving canagliflozin 300 mg , and 6 . 2 % of patients receiving placebo .
An increased incidence of hypoglycemia was observed in this trial , which is consistent with the expected increase of hypoglycemia when an agent not associated with hypoglycemia is added to insulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Table 20 : Results from 18 – Week Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Canagliflozin in Combination with Metformin HCl and Insulin ≥ 30 Units / Day [ 1 ] Efficacy Parameter Placebo + Metformin HCl + Insulin ( N = 145 ) Canagliflozin 100 mg + Metformin HCl + Insulin ( N = 139 ) Canagliflozin 300 mg + Metformin HCl + Insulin ( N = 148 ) HbA 1 C ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 15 8 . 20 8 . 22 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 0 . 03 - 0 . 64 - 0 . 79 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] - 0 . 66 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 81 , - 0 . 51 ) - 0 . 82 null ( - 0 . 96 , - 0 . 67 ) Percent of patients achieving HbA 1 C < 7 % 9 19 [ 4 ] 29 null Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline 163 168 167 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 1 - 16 - 24 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 97 . 5 % CI ) null - 16 null ( - 28 , - 5 ) - 25 null ( - 36 , - 14 ) Body Weight Baseline ( mean ) in kg 102 . 3 99 . 7 101 . 1 % change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) 0 . 0 - 1 . 7 - 2 . 7 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 97 . 5 % CI ) null - 1 . 7 null ( - 2 . 4 , - 1 . 0 ) - 2 . 7 null ( - 3 . 4 , - 2 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation in study prior to glycemic rescue therapy [ 2 ] Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value and stratification factors [ 3 ] p ≤ 0 . 001 [ 4 ] p ≤ 0 . 01 14 . 2 Canagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) .
The CANVAS and CANVAS - R trials were multicenter , multi - national , randomized , double - blind parallel group , with similar inclusion and exclusion criteria .
Patients eligible for enrollment in both CANVAS and CANVAS - R trials were : 30 years of age or older and had established , stable , cardiovascular , cerebrovascular , peripheral artery disease ( 66 % of the enrolled population ) or were 50 years of age or older and had two or more other specified risk factors for cardiovascular disease ( 34 % of the enrolled population ) .
The integrated analysis of the CANVAS and CANVAS - R trials compared the risk of Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event ( MACE ) between canagliflozin and placebo when these were added to and used concomitantly with standard of care treatments for diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
The primary endpoint , MACE , was the time to first occurrence of a three - part composite outcome which included cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction and non - fatal stroke .
In CANVAS , patients were randomly assigned 1 : 1 : 1 to canagliflozin 100 mg , canagliflozin 300 mg , or matching placebo .
In CANVAS - R , patients were randomly assigned 1 : 1 to canagliflozin 100 mg or matching placebo , and titration to 300 mg was permitted at the investigator ' s discretion ( based on tolerability and glycemic needs ) after Week 13 .
Concomitant antidiabetic and atherosclerotic therapies could be adjusted , at the discretion of investigators , to ensure participants were treated according to the standard care for these diseases .
A total of 10 , 134 patients were treated ( 4 , 327 in CANVAS and 5 , 807 in CANVAS - R ; total of 4 , 344 randomly assigned to placebo and 5 , 790 to canagliflozin ) for a mean exposure duration of 149 weeks ( 223 weeks [ 4 . 3 years ] in CANVAS and 94 weeks [ 1 . 8 years ] in CANVAS - R ) .
Approximately 78 % of the trial population was Caucasian , 13 % was Asian , and 3 % was Black .
The mean age was 63 years and approximately 64 % were male .
The mean HbA 1 C at baseline was 8 . 2 % and mean duration of diabetes was 13 . 5 years with 70 % of patients having had diabetes for 10 years or more .
Approximately 31 % , 21 % and 17 % reported a past history of neuropathy , retinopathy and nephropathy , respectively , and the mean eGFR 76 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
At baseline , patients were treated with one ( 19 % ) or more ( 80 % ) antidiabetic medications including metformin ( 77 % ) , insulin ( 50 % ) , and sulfonylurea ( 43 % ) .
At baseline , the mean systolic blood pressure was 137 mmHg , the mean diastolic blood pressure was 78 mmHg , the mean LDL was 89 mg / dL , the mean HDL was 46 mg / dL , and the mean urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ( UACR ) was 115 mg / g .
At baseline , approximately 80 % of patients were treated with renin angiotensin system inhibitors , 53 % with beta - blockers , 13 % with loop diuretics , 36 % with non - loop diuretics , 75 % with statins , and 74 % with antiplatelet agents ( mostly aspirin ) .
During the trial , investigators could modify anti - diabetic and cardiovascular therapies to achieve local standard of care treatment targets with respect to blood glucose , lipid , and blood pressure .
More patients receiving canagliflozin compared to placebo initiated anti - thrombotics ( 5 . 2 % vs 4 . 2 % ) and statins ( 5 . 8 % vs 4 . 8 % ) during the trial .
For the primary analysis , a stratified Cox proportional hazards model was used to test for non - inferiority against a pre - specified risk margin of 1 . 3 for the hazard ratio of MACE .
In the integrated analysis of CANVAS and CANVAS - R trials , canagliflozin reduced the risk of first occurrence of MACE .
The estimated hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) for time to first MACE was 0 . 86 ( 0 . 75 , 0 . 97 ) .
Refer to Table 21 .
Vital status was obtained for 99 . 6 % of patients across the trials .
The Kaplan - Meier curve depicting time to first occurrence of MACE is shown in Figure 3 .
Table 21 : Treatment Effect for the Primary Composite Endpoint , MACE , and its Components in the Integrated Analysis of CANVAS and CANVAS - R studies [ 1 ] Placebo N = 4347 ( % ) Canagliflozin N = 5795 ( % ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] Composite of cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , non - fatal stroke ( time to first occurrence ) [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] , [ 5 ] , 426 ( 10 . 4 ) 585 ( 9 . 2 ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 75 , 0 . 97 ) Non - fatal myocardial infarction null , null 159 ( 3 . 9 ) 215 ( 3 . 4 ) 0 . 85 ( 0 . 69 , 1 . 05 ) Non - fatal Stroke null , null 116 ( 2 . 8 ) 158 ( 2 . 5 ) 0 . 90 ( 0 . 71 , 1 . 15 ) Cardiovascular Death null , null 185 ( 4 . 6 ) 268 ( 4 . 1 ) 0 . 87 ( 0 . 72 , 1 . 06 ) [ 1 ] Intent - To - Treat Analysis Set [ 2 ] Stratified Cox - proportional hazards model with treatment as a factor and stratified by study and by prior CV disease [ 3 ] P - value for superiority ( 2 - sided ) = 0 . 0158 [ 4 ] Number and percentage of first events [ 5 ] Due to pooling of unequal randomization ratios , Cochran - Mantel - Haenszel weights were applied to calculate percentages Figure 3 : Time to First Occurrence of MACE [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 Canagliflozin Renal and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Diabetic Nephropathy and Albuminuria Canagliflozin is indicated to reduce the risk of end - stage kidney disease ( ESKD ) , doubling of serum creatinine , cardiovascular ( CV ) death , and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy with albuminuria > 300 mg / day .
The Canagliflozin and Renal Events in Diabetes with Established Nephropathy Clinical Evaluation Trial ( CREDENCE ) was a multinational , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial comparing canagliflozin with placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , an eGFR ≥ 30 to < 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 and albuminuria ( urine albumin / creatinine ˃ 300 to ≤ 5000 mg / g ) who were receiving standard of care including a maximum - tolerated , labeled daily dose of an angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor ( ACEi ) or angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) .
The primary objective of CREDENCE was to assess the efficacy of canagliflozin relative to placebo in reducing the composite endpoint of end stage kidney disease ( ESKD ) , doubling of serum creatinine , and renal or CV death .
Patients were randomized to receive canagliflozin 100 mg ( N = 2 , 202 ) or placebo ( N = 2 , 199 ) and treatment was continued until the initiation of dialysis or renal transplantation .
The median follow - up duration for the 4 , 401 randomized subjects was 137 weeks .
Vital status was obtained for 99 . 9 % of subjects .
The population was 67 % White , 20 % Asian , and 5 % Black ; 32 % were of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity .
The mean age was 63 years and 66 % were male .
At randomization , the mean HbA 1 c was 8 . 3 % , the median urine albumin / creatinine was 927 mg / g , the mean eGFR was 56 . 2 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , 50 % had prior CV disease , and 15 % reported a history of heart failure .
The most frequent antihyperglycemic agents ( AHA ) medications used at baseline were insulin ( 66 % ) , biguanides ( 58 % ) , and sulfonylureas ( 29 % ) .
Nearly all subjects ( 99 . 9 % ) were on ACEi or ARB at randomization , approximately 60 % were taking an anti - thrombotic agent ( including aspirin ) , and 69 % were on a statin .
The primary composite endpoint in the CREDENCE study was the time to first occurrence of ESKD ( defined as an eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , initiation of chronic dialysis or renal transplant ) , doubling of serum creatinine , and renal or CV death .
Canagliflozin 100 mg significantly reduced the risk of the primary composite endpoint based on a time - to - event analysis [ HR : 0 . 70 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 59 , 0 . 82 ; p < 0 . 0001 ] ( see Figure 4 ) .
The treatment effect reflected a reduction in progression to ESKD , doubling of serum creatinine and cardiovascular death as shown in Table 22 and Figure 4 .
There were few renal deaths during the trial .
Canagliflozin 100 mg also significantly reduced the risk of hospitalization for heart failure [ HR : 0 . 61 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 47 to 0 . 80 ; p < 0 . 001 ] .
Table 22 : Analysis of Primary Endpoint ( including the Individual Components ) and Secondary Endpoints from the CREDENCE Study Placebo canagliflozin Endpoint N = 2 , 199 ( % ) Event Rate [ 1 ] N = 2 , 202 ( % ) Event Rate null HR [ 2 ] ( 95 % CI ) Intent - To - Treat Analysis Set ( time to first occurrence ) The individual components do not represent a breakdown of the composite outcomes , but rather the total number of subjects experiencing an event during the course of the study .
Primary Composite Endpoint ( ESKD , doubling of serum creatinine , renal death , or CV death ) 340 ( 15 . 5 ) 6 . 1 245 ( 11 . 1 ) 4 . 3 0 . 70 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 82 ) [ 3 ] ESKD 165 ( 7 . 5 ) 2 . 9 116 ( 5 . 3 ) 2 . 0 0 . 68 ( 0 . 54 , 0 . 86 ) Doubling of serum creatinine 188 ( 8 . 5 ) 3 . 4 118 ( 5 . 4 ) 2 . 1 0 . 60 ( 0 . 48 , 0 . 76 ) Renal death 5 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 1 2 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 0 CV death 140 ( 6 . 4 ) 2 . 4 110 ( 5 . 0 ) 1 . 9 0 . 78 ( 0 . 61 , 1 . 00 ) CV death or hospitalization for heart failure 253 ( 11 . 5 ) 4 . 5 179 ( 8 . 1 ) 3 . 1 0 . 69 ( 0 . 57 , 0 . 83 ) [ 4 ] CV death , non - fatal myocardial infarction or non - fatal stroke 269 ( 12 . 2 ) 4 . 9 217 ( 9 . 9 ) 3 . 9 0 . 80 ( 0 . 67 , 0 . 95 ) [ 5 ] Non - fatal myocardial infarction 87 ( 4 . 0 ) 1 . 6 71 ( 3 . 2 ) 1 . 3 0 . 81 ( 0 . 59 , 1 . 10 ) Non - fatal stroke 66 ( 3 . 0 ) 1 . 2 53 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 . 9 0 . 80 ( 0 . 56 , 1 . 15 ) Hospitalization for heart failure 141 ( 6 . 4 ) 2 . 5 89 ( 4 . 0 ) 1 . 6 0 . 61 ( 0 . 47 , 0 . 80 ) null ESKD , doubling of serum creatinine or renal death 224 ( 10 . 2 ) 4 . 0 153 ( 6 . 9 ) 2 . 7 0 . 66 ( 0 . 53 , 0 . 81 ) null [ 1 ] Event rate per 100 patient - years .
[ 2 ] Hazard ratio ( canagliflozin compared to placebo ) , 95 % CI and p - value are estimated using a stratified Cox proportional hazards model including treatment as the explanatory variable and stratified by screening eGFR ( ≥ 30 to < 45 , ≥ 45 to < 60 , ≥ 60 to < 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) .
HR is not presented for renal death due to the small number of events in each group .
[ 3 ] P - value < 0 . 0001 [ 4 ] P - value < 0 . 001 [ 5 ] P - value < 0 . 02 The Kaplan - Meier curve ( Figure 4 ) shows time to first occurrence of the primary composite endpoint of ESKD , doubling of serum creatinine , renal death , or CV death .
The curves begin to separate by Week 52 and continue to diverge thereafter .
Figure 4 : CREDENCE : Time to First Occurrence of the Primary Composite Endpoint [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 63629 - 8260 - 1 : 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 63629 - 8260 - 2 : 60 Tablets in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Lactic Acidosis Explain the risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) .
Advise patients to discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR immediately and to promptly notify their healthcare provider if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgias , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of metformin HCl , are unlikely to recur .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Counsel patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Inform patients about importance of regular testing of renal function and hematological parameters while receiving INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation of INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Lower Limb Amputation Inform patients that INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR is associated with an increased risk of amputations .
Counsel patients about the importance of routine preventative foot care .
Instruct patients to monitor for new pain or tenderness , sores or ulcers , or infections involving the leg or foot and to seek medical advice immediately if such signs or symptoms develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Volume Depletion Inform patients that symptomatic hypotension may occur with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and advise them to contact their doctor if they experience such symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that dehydration may increase the risk for hypotension and to have adequate fluid intake .
Ketoacidosis Inform patients that ketoacidosis is a serious life - threatening condition and that cases of ketoacidosis have been reported during use of canagliflozin , sometimes associated with illness or surgery among other risk factors .
Instruct patients to check ketones ( when possible ) if symptoms consistent with ketoacidosis occur even if blood glucose is not elevated .
If symptoms of ketoacidosis ( including nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , tiredness , and labored breathing ) occur , instruct patients to discontinue INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR and seek medical attention immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Serious Urinary Tract Infections Inform patients of the potential for urinary tract infections , which may be serious .
Provide them with information on the symptoms of urinary tract infections .
Advise them to seek medical advice if such symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Necrotizing Fasciitis of the Perineum ( Fournier ' s Gangrene ) Inform patients that necrotizing infections of the perineum ( Fournier ' s gangrene ) have occurred with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR .
Counsel patients to promptly seek medical attention if they develop pain or tenderness , redness , or swelling of the genitals or the area from the genitals back to the rectum , along with a fever above 100 . 4 ° F or malaise [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Females ( e . g . , Vulvovaginitis ) Inform female patients that vaginal yeast infection ( e . g . , vulvovaginitis ) may occur and provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Genital Mycotic Infections in Males ( e . g . , Balanitis or Balanoposthitis ) Inform male patients that yeast infection of penis ( e . g . , balanitis or balanoposthitis ) may occur , especially in uncircumcised males and patients with prior history .
Provide them with information on the signs and symptoms of balanitis and balanoposthitis ( rash or redness of the glans or foreskin of the penis ) .
Advise them of treatment options and when to seek medical advice [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that serious hypersensitivity reactions , such as urticaria , rash , anaphylaxis , and angioedema , have been reported with canagliflozin .
Advise patients to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting allergic reaction and to discontinue drug until they have consulted prescribing physicians [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Bone Fracture Inform patients that bone fractures have been reported in patients taking canagliflozin .
Provide them with information on factors that may contribute to fracture risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Laboratory Tests Inform patients that they will test positive for glucose in their urine while on INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Age Advise pregnant women , and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus with treatment with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct females of reproductive potential to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Inform females that treatment with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women which may lead to unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Instruct patients to keep INVOKAMET / INVOKAMET XR in the original bottle to protect from moisture .
Advise patients that storage in a pill box or pill organizer is allowed for up to 30 days .
Instruct patients to take INVOKAMET only as prescribed twice daily with food .
If a dose is missed , advise patients not to take two doses of INVOKAMET at the same time .
Instruct patients to take INVOKAMET XR only as prescribed once daily with the morning meal .
If a dose is missed , advise patients to take it as soon as it is remembered unless it is almost time for the next dose , in which case patients should skip the missed dose and take the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time .
Advise patients not to take more than two tablets of INVOKAMET XR at the same time .
Instruct patients that INVOKAMET XR must be swallowed whole and never crushed , cut , or chewed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet .
Manufactured for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , NJ 08560 Licensed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation © 2014 – 2020 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies Medication Guide INVOKAMET ® ( in vok ' a met ) ( canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride ) tablets , for oral use and INVOKAMET ® ( in vok ' a met ) XR ( canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride ) extended - release tablets , for oral use This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 08 / 2020 What is the most important information I should know about INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR can cause serious side effects , including : • Lactic Acidosis .
Metformin , one of the medicines in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR , can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a build - up of lactic acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Stop taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms of lactic acidosis : • feel cold in your hands or feet • feel very weak or tired • have trouble breathing • have stomach pains , nausea , or vomiting • have a slow or irregular heartbeat • have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • have unusual sleepiness or sleep longer than usual • feel dizzy or lightheaded Most people who have had lactic acidosis had other conditions that , in combination with metformin use , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR if you : • have severe kidney problems or your kidneys are affected by certain x - ray tests that use injectable dye .
• have liver problems .
• drink alcohol very often or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term " binge " drinking .
• get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have surgery .
• have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke .
• are 65 years of age or older .
The best way to keep from having a problem with lactic acidosis from metformin is to tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Your doctor will decide to stop your INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR for a while if you have any of these things .
• Amputations .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may increase your risk of lower limb amputations .
Amputations mainly involve removal of the toe or part of the foot , however , amputations involving the leg , below and above the knee , have also occurred .
Some people had more than one amputation , some on both sides of the body .
You may be at a higher risk of lower limb amputation if you : • have a history of amputation • have heart disease or are at risk for heart disease • have had blocked or narrowed blood vessels , usually in your leg • have damage to the nerves ( neuropathy ) in your leg • have had diabetic foot ulcers or sores Call your doctor right away if you have new pain or tenderness , any sores , ulcers , or infections in your leg or foot .
Your doctor may decide to stop your INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR for a while if you have any of these signs or symptoms .
Talk to your doctor about proper foot care .
• Dehydration .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR can cause some people to become dehydrated ( the loss of too much body water ) .
Dehydration may cause you to feel dizzy , faint , lightheaded , or weak , especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) .
There have been reports of sudden worsening of kidney function in people with type 2 diabetes who are taking canagliflozin , one of the medicines in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR .
You may be at higher risk of dehydration if you : • take medicines to lower your blood pressure , including diuretics ( water pill ) • are on a low sodium ( salt ) diet • have kidney problems • are 65 years of age or older Talk to your doctor about what you can do to prevent dehydration including how much fluid you should drink on a daily basis .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you reduce the amount of food or liquid you drink , for example if you cannot eat or you start to lose liquids from your body , for example from vomiting , diarrhea , or being in the sun too long .
• Ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
Ketoacidosis has happened in people who have type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes , during treatment with canagliflozin , one of the medicines in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR .
Ketoacidosis has also happened in people with diabetes who were sick or who had surgery during treatment with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Ketoacidosis is a serious condition , which needs to be treated in a hospital .
Ketoacidosis may lead to death .
Ketoacidosis can happen with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
Stop taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and call your doctor right away if you get any of the following symptoms : • nausea • vomiting • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • trouble breathing If you get any of these symptoms during treatment with INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , if possible , check for ketones in your urine , even if your blood sugar is less than 250 mg / dL .
• Vaginal yeast infection .
Symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection include : • vaginal odor • white or yellowish vaginal discharge ( discharge may be lumpy or look like cottage cheese ) • vaginal itching • Yeast infection of the skin around the penis ( balanitis or balanoposthitis ) .
Swelling of an uncircumcised penis may develop that makes it difficult to pull back the skin around the tip of the penis .
Other symptoms of yeast infection of the penis include : • redness , itching , or swelling of the penis • foul smelling discharge from the penis • rash of the penis • pain in the skin around the penis Talk to your doctor about what to do if you get symptoms of a yeast infection of the vagina or penis .
Your doctor may suggest you use an over - the - counter antifungal medicine .
Talk to your doctor right away if you use an over - the - counter antifungal medication and your symptoms do not go away .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR can have other serious side effects .
See " What are the possible side effects of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ? "
What is INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
• INVOKAMET contains 2 prescription medicines called canagliflozin ( INVOKANA ) and metformin hydrochloride ( GLUCOPHAGE ) .
INVOKAMET XR contains 2 prescription medicines called canagliflozin ( INVOKANA ) and metformin hydrochloride extended - release ( GLUMETZA ) .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR can be used : • along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar ( glucose ) in adults with type 2 diabetes .
• in adults with type 2 diabetes who have known cardiovascular disease and canagliflozin is needed to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events such as heart attack , stroke , or death .
• in adults with type 2 diabetes and diabetic kidney disease ( nephropathy ) with a certain amount of protein in the urine , and canagliflozin is needed to reduce the risk of end stage kidney disease ( ESKD ) , worsening of kidney function , cardiovascular death , and hospitalization for heart failure .
• INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is not for people with type 1 diabetes .
It may increase their risk of diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in blood or urine ) .
• It is not known if INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Do not take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR if you : • have severe kidney problems • are on kidney dialysis • have a condition called metabolic acidosis .
• are allergic to canagliflozin , metformin , or any of the ingredients in INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of ingredients in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction to INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR may include : • rash • raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • swelling of the face , lips , mouth , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing Before taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a history of amputation .
• have heart disease or are at risk for heart disease .
• have had blocked or narrowed blood vessels , usually in your leg .
• have damage to the nerves ( neuropathy ) in your leg .
• have had diabetic foot ulcers or sores .
• have moderate to severe kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have a history of urinary tract infections or problems with urination .
• are on a low sodium ( salt ) diet .
Your doctor may change your diet or your dose of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
• have ever had an allergic reaction to INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
• are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your doctor about when you should stop INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and when you should start INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR again .
See " What is the most important information I should know about INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ? "
• have heart problems , including congestive heart failure .
• are going to have surgery .
Your doctor may stop your INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR before you have surgery .
Talk to your doctor if you are having surgery about when to stop taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and when to start it again .
• are eating less or there is a change in your diet .
• have or have had problems with your pancreas , including pancreatitis or surgery on your pancreas .
• drink alcohol very often or drink a lot of alcohol in the short - term ( " binge " drinking ) .
• have low levels of vitamin B 12 or calcium in your blood .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may harm your unborn baby .
If you become pregnant while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , tell your doctor as soon as possible .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• are premenopausal ( before the " change of life " ) , and do not have periods regularly or at all .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Talk to your doctor about birth control choices while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , if you are not planning to become pregnant .
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Do not breastfeed while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • diuretics ( water pills ) • phenytoin or phenobarbital ( used to control seizures ) • digoxin ( used to treat heart problems ) • rifampin ( used to treat or prevent tuberculosis ) • ritonavir ( used to treat HIV infection ) Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if your medicine is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
• If you are prescribed INVOKAMET , take by mouth 2 times each day with meals exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Taking INVOKAMET with meals may lower your chance of having an upset stomach .
• If you are prescribed INVOKAMET XR , take by mouth 1 time each day with the morning meal exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Taking INVOKAMET XR with a meal may lower your chance of having an upset stomach .
• Swallow INVOKAMET XR whole .
Do not crush , cut , or chew .
• You may sometimes pass a soft mass in your stools ( bowel movement ) that looks like INVOKAMET XR tablets .
It is normal to see this in your stool .
• Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Your doctor may tell you to take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR along with other diabetes medicines .
Low blood sugar can happen more often when INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR is taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
See " What are the possible side effects of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ? "
• If you miss a dose of INVOKAMET , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and take the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time .
Do not take 2 tablets of INVOKAMET at the same time .
Talk to your doctor if you have questions about a missed dose .
• If you miss a dose of INVOKAMET XR , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and take the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time .
Do not take more than 2 tablets of INVOKAMET XR at the same time .
Talk to your doctor if you have questions about a missed dose .
• If you take too much INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• When your body is under some types of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection , or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine you need may change .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these conditions and follow your doctor ' s instructions .
• Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
• Check your blood sugar as your doctor tells you to .
• INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR will cause your urine to test positive for glucose .
• Your doctor may do certain blood tests before you start INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and during treatment as needed .
Your doctor may change your dose of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR based on the results of your blood tests .
• Your doctor will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A 1 C .
What should I avoid while taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
• Avoid drinking alcohol very often or drinking a lot of alcohol in a short period of time ( " binge " drinking ) .
It can increase your chances of getting serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR may cause serious side effects including : See " What is the most important information I should know about INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ? "
• serious urinary tract infections .
Serious urinary tract infections that may lead to hospitalization have happened in people who are taking canagliflozin , one of the medicines in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR .
Tell your doctor if you have any signs or symptoms of a urinary tract infection such as a burning feeling when passing urine , a need to urinate often , the need to urinate right away , pain in the lower part of your stomach ( pelvis ) , or blood in the urine .
Sometimes people may also have a fever , back pain , nausea , or vomiting .
• low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin , your risk of getting low blood sugar is higher .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • confusion • hunger • shaking or feeling jittery • drowsiness • dizziness • fast heartbeat • weakness • irritability • sweating • a rare but serious bacterial infection that causes damage to the tissue under the skin ( necrotizing fasciitis ) in the area between and around the anus and genitals ( perineum ) .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum has happened in people who take canagliflozin , one of the medicines in INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR .
Necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum may lead to hospitalization , may require multiple surgeries , and may lead to death .
Seek medical attention immediately if you have a fever or you are feeling very weak , tired or uncomfortable ( malaise ) and you develop any of the following symptoms in the area between and around your anus and genitals : • pain or tenderness • swelling • redness of the skin ( erythema ) • serious allergic reaction .
If you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , stop taking INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR and call your doctor right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
See " Do not take INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR if you : " .
Your doctor may give you a medicine for your allergic reaction and prescribe a different medicine for your diabetes .
• broken bones ( fractures ) .
Bone fractures have been seen in patients taking canagliflozin .
Talk to your doctor about factors that may increase your risk of bone fracture .
• low vitamin B 12 ( vitamin B 12 deficiency ) .
Using metformin for long periods of time may cause a decrease in the amount of vitamin B 12 in your blood , especially if you have had low vitamin B 12 blood levels before .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check your vitamin B 12 levels .
Other common side effects of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR include : • nausea and vomiting • gas • diarrhea • upset stomach • weakness • indigestion • headache • changes in urination , including urgent need to urinate more often , in larger amounts , or at night These are not all the possible side effects of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 .
How should I store INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR ?
• Store INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR in the original container to protect from moisture .
Storage in a pill box or pill organizer is allowed for up to 30 days .
Keep INVOKAMET and INVOKAMET XR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in INVOKAMET ?
Active ingredients : canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : The tablet core contains croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The magnesium stearate is vegetable - sourced .
In addition , the tablet coating contains Macrogol / PEG3350 , polyvinyl alcohol ( partially hydrolyzed ) , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide yellow ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg and 150 mg / 500 mg tablets only ) , iron oxide red ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg , 150 mg / 500 mg and 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) , and iron oxide black ( 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
What are the ingredients of INVOKAMET XR ?
Active ingredients : canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : The tablet core contains croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate ( vegetable - sourced ) , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene oxide , and silicified microcrystalline cellulose ( 50 mg / 500 mg and 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
In addition , the tablet coating contains macrogol / PEG3350 , polyvinyl alcohol ( partially hydrolyzed ) , talc , titanium dioxide , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , and iron oxide black ( 50 mg / 1 , 000 mg and 150 mg / 1 , 000 mg tablets only ) .
Manufactured for : Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Titusville , NJ 08560 .
Licensed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation .
© 2014 – 2020 Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies For more information about INVOKAMET or INVOKAMET XR , call 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 or visit our websites at www . invokamet . com or www . invokametxr . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
