UROLOGIC IRRIGATING FLUID FOR PATIENTS REQUIRING PROLONGED INDWELLING URETHRAL CATHETERIZATION ... NOT FOR TRANSURETHRAL SURGICAL PROCEDURES .
Not For Injection By Usual Parenteral Routes Semi - Rigid Irrigation Container Rx only DESCRIPTION 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP , is a sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous solution of Glacial Acetic Acid , USP for irrigation of the urinary bladder by the transurethral route ( NOT FOR TUR ) .
Each 100 mL contains 250 mg of Glacial Acetic Acid , in water for injection .
The solution is hypotonic , 42 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
, in relation to the extracellular fluid compartment of the body ( 280 mOsmol / liter ) and has a pH of 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 to 3 . 4 ) .
Other than the active ingredient , acetic acid , the solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required the unused portion should be discarded .
The solution is a urinary bladder antimicrobial , acidifying irrigant .
Glacial Acetic Acid , USP is chemically designated acetic acid ( C2H4O2 ) a liquid miscible with water .
It has the following structural formula : CH3COOH Water for Injection is chemically designated H2O .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Irrigation of the urinary bladder with acetic acid solution in a concentration of 0 . 25 % has been shown to exert an antimicrobial action against a variety of microorganisms ( especially ammonia - forming bacteria ) that frequently gain access to the urinary bladder in patients who require prolonged indwelling urethral catheterization .
Its antimicrobial action is dependent on administration via the indwelling catheter at a sufficient rate ( continuous or intermittent ) to maintain an effluent pH of at least 5 . 0 .
Maintenance of low pH of bladder urine also helps reduce formation of calcium encrustations in the indwelling catheter .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP is indicated as a constant or intermittent bladder rinse to help prevent the growth and proliferation of susceptible urinary pathogens ( especially ammonia - forming bacteria ) in the management of patients who require prolonged placement of an indwelling urethral catheter .
It also may be used for periodic irrigation of an indwelling catheter to help maintain patency by reducing the formation of calcium encrustations .
CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES .
This solution is contraindicated for irrigation during transurethral surgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
• Use of this solution in patients with mucosal lesions of the urinary bladder may be harmful due to irritation of the lesions .
Absorption via open lesions of the bladder mucosa may result in systemic acidosis .
• The contents of an opened container should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
• Discard the unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservative .
• Do not heat over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
PRECAUTIONS If pain or hematuria should occur during irrigation , it should be discontinued and the patient re - evaluated .
Do not use unless solution is clear , seal is intact and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP .
It is also not known whether Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Usage : The safety and effectiveness have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic acidosis has been reported in patients receiving urinary bladder irrigation with 0 . 25 % acetic acid solution .
Urologic pain and hematuria have been reported in patients receiving urinary bladder irrigation with 0 . 25 % acetic acid solution .
OVERDOSAGE Systemic absorption is unlikely unless there are open lesions of the bladder mucosa that have gone undetected .
In such event , discontinue the irrigation , evaluate the patient for possible systemic acidosis , intravascular hemolysis and circulatory overload and institute appropriate countermeasures as indicated .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Oral LD50 in mice : 5 g / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP may be administered by gravity drip via an administration set connected to an indwelling urethral catheter designed for continuous or intermittent two - way flow .
A disposable dispensing set should be used .
A bulb or piston syringe may be used for periodic irrigation of an indwelling catheter .
For continuous or intermittent irrigation , the rate of administration will correspond roughly to the rate of urine flow and should be adjusted to maintain a urinary effluent pH of 4 . 5 to 5 . 0 .
Nitrazine or other pH paper may be used to monitor pH , preferably at least four times daily .
Drip rate should be adjusted as necessary to maintain desired pH ; increasing flow rate reduces pH value and vice versa .
With continuous or intermittent irrigation , each patient will require a volume of approximately 500 to 1500 mL per 24 hours .
For periodic irrigation of an indwelling catheter to maintain patency , about 50 mL is required for each irrigation and may be administered using a bulb or piston syringe for injection and aspiration as often as desired .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation , USP is supplied in single - dose irrigation containers as follows : List Container Size ( mL ) 6143 Semi - rigid 250 & 1000 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : December , 2018 EN - 5788 Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bottle Label 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 6143 - 09 0 . 25 % ACETIC ACID Irrigation , USP Each 100 mL contains glacial acetic acid , 250 mg .
42 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
.
pH 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 to 3 . 4 ) .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Not for injection or transurethral surgery .
Use only if clear and seal intact .
Warning : Do not heat bottle over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See insert .
Single - dose container .
Contains no bacteriostat .
Discard unused portion .
Usual dosage : See insert .
Rx only Pat .
Pend .
AQUALITE ™ SYSTEM Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA RL - 7281 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
