For Rapid Bolus Intravenous Use Rx only DESCRIPTION : Adenosine is an endogenous nucleoside occurring in all cells of the body .
It is chemically 6 - amino - 9 - β - D - ribofuranosyl - 9 - H - purine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Adenosine is a white crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
Solubility increases by warming and lowering the pH . Adenosine is not chemically related to other antiarrhythmic drugs .
Adenosine injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for rapid bolus intravenous injection .
Each mL contains 3 mg adenosine , and 9 mg sodium chloride , in Water for Injection .
The pH of the solution is between 4 . 5 and 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Mechanism of Action Adenosine injection slows conduction time through the A - V node , can interrupt the reentry pathways through the A - V node , and can restore normal sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia ( PSVT ) , including PSVT associated with Wolff - Parkinson - White Syndrome .
Adenosine is antagonized competitively by methylxanthines such as caffeine and theophylline , and potentiated by blockers of nucleoside transport such as dipyridamole .
Adenosine is not blocked by atropine .
Hemodynamics The intravenous bolus dose of 6 or 12 mg adenosine injection usually has no systemic hemodynamic effects .
When larger doses are given by infusion , adenosine decreases blood pressure by decreasing peripheral resistance .
Pharmacokinetics Intravenously administered adenosine is rapidly cleared from the circulation via cellular uptake , primarily by erythrocytes and vascular endothelial cells .
This process involves a specific transmembrane nucleoside carrier system that is reversible , nonconcentrative , and bidirectionally symmetrical .
Intracellular adenosine is rapidly metabolized either via phosphorylation to adenosine monophosphate by adenosine kinase , or via deamination to inosine by adenosine deaminase in the cytosol .
Since adenosine kinase has a lower K m and V max than adenosine deaminase , deamination plays a significant role only when cytosolic adenosine saturates the phosphorylation pathway .
Inosine formed by deamination of adenosine can leave the cell intact or can be degraded to hypoxanthine , xanthine , and ultimately uric acid .
Adenosine monophosphate formed by phosphorylation of adenosine is incorporated into the high - energy phosphate pool .
While extracellular adenosine is primarily cleared by cellular uptake with a half - life of less than 10 seconds in whole blood , excessive amounts may be deaminated by an ecto - form of adenosine deaminase .
As adenosine requires no hepatic or renal function for its activation or inactivation , hepatic and renal failure would not be expected to alter its effectiveness or tolerability .
Clinical Trial Results In controlled studies in the United States , bolus doses of 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 mg were studied .
A cumulative 60 % of patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia had converted to normal sinus rhythm within one minute after an intravenous bolus dose of 6 mg adenosine ( some converted on 3 mg and failures were given 6 mg ) , and a cumulative 92 % converted after a bolus dose of 12 mg .
Seven to sixteen percent of patients converted after 1 - 4 placebo bolus injections .
Similar responses were seen in a variety of patient subsets , including those using or not using digoxin , those with Wolff - Parkinson - White Syndrome , males , females , blacks , Caucasians , and Hispanics .
Adenosine is not effective in converting rhythms other than PSVT , such as atrial flutter , atrial fibrillation , or ventricular tachycardia , to normal sinus rhythm .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Adenosine injection is indicated for the following .
Conversion to sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia ( PSVT ) , including that associated with accessory bypass tracts ( Wolff - Parkinson - White Syndrome ) .
When clinically advisable , appropriate vagal maneuvers ( e . g . , Valsalva maneuver ) , should be attempted prior to adenosine administration .
It is important to be sure the adenosine solution actually reaches the systemic circulation ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Adenosine does not convert atrial flutter , atrial fibrillation , or ventricular tachycardia to normal sinus rhythm .
In the presence of atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation , a transient modest slowing of ventricular response may occur immediately following adenosine administration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Adenosine injection is contraindicated in : • Second - or third - degree A - V block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) .
• Sinus node disease , such as sick sinus syndrome or symptomatic bradycardia ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to adenosine .
WARNINGS : Heart Block Adenosine exerts its effect by decreasing conduction through the AV node and may produce a short lasting first - , second - or thirddegree heart block .
Appropriate therapy should be instituted as needed .
Patients who develop high - level block on one dose of adenosine should not be given additional doses .
Because of the very short half - life of adenosine , these effects are generally self - limiting .
Appropriate resuscitative measures should be available .
Transient or prolonged episodes of asystole have been reported with fatal outcomes in some cases .
Rarely , ventricular fibrillation has been reported following adenosine administration , including both resuscitated and fatal events .
In most instances , these cases were associated with the concomitant use of digoxin and , less frequently with digoxin and verapamil .
Although no causal relationship or drug - drug interaction has been established , adenosine should be used with caution in patients receiving digoxin or digoxin and verapamil in combination .
Arrhythmias at Time of Conversion At the time of conversion to normal sinus rhythm , a variety of new rhythms may appear on the electrocardiogram .
They generally last only a few seconds without intervention , and may take the form of premature ventricular contractions , atrial premature contractions , atrial fibrillation , sinus braydycardia , sinus tachycardia , skipped beats , and varying degrees of A - V nodal block .
Such findings were seen in 55 % of patients .
Bronchoconstriction Adenosine is a respiratory stimulant ( probably through activation of carotid body chemoreceptors ) and intravenous administration in man has been shown to increase minute ventilation ( Ve ) and reduce arterial PCO 2 causing respiratory alkalosis .
Adenosine administered by inhalation has been reported to cause bronchoconstriction in asthmatic patients , presumably due to mast cell degranulation and histamine release .
These effects have not been observed in normal subjects .
Adenosine has been administered to a limited number of patients with asthma and mild to moderate exacerbation of their symptoms has been reported .
Respiratory compromise has occurred during adenosine infusion in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease .
Adenosine should be used with caution in patients with obstructive lung disease not associated with bronchoconstriction ( e . g . , emphysema , bronchitis , etc . ) and should be avoided in patients with bronchoconstriction or bronchospasm ( e . g . , asthma ) .
Adenosine should be discontinued in any patient who develops severe respiratory difficulties .
PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions Intravenous adenosine has been effectively administered in the presence of other cardioactive drugs , such as quinidine , beta - adrenergic blocking agents , calcium channel blocking agents , and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , without any change in the adverse reaction profile .
Digoxin and verapamil use may be rarely associated with ventricular fibrillation when combined with adenosine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Because of the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the SA and AV nodes , however , adenosine should be used with caution in the presence of these agents .
The use of adenosine in patients receiving digitalis may be rarely associated with ventricular fibrillation ( see WARNINGS ) .
The effects of adenosine are antagonized by methylxanthines such as caffeine and theophylline .
In the presence of these methylxanthines , larger doses of adenosine may be required or adenosine may not be effective .
Adenosine effects are potentiated by dipyridamole .
Thus , smaller doses of adenosine may be effective in the presence of dipyridamole .
Carbamazepine has been reported to increase the degree of heart block produced by other agents .
As the primary effect of adenosine is to decrease conduction through the A - V node , higher degrees of heart block may be produced in the presence of carbamazepine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of adenosine .
Adenosine was negative for genotoxic potential in the Salmonella ( Ames Test ) and mammalian Microsome Assay .
Adenosine , however , like other nucleosides at millimolar concentrations present for several doubling times of cells in culture , is known to produce a variety of chromosomal alterations .
Fertility studies in animals have not been conducted with adenosine .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with adenosine ; nor have studies been performed in pregnant women .
As adenosine is a naturally occurring material , widely dispersed throughout the body , no fetal effects would be anticipated .
However , since it is not known whether adenosine can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women , adenosine should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use No controlled studies have been conducted in pediatric patients to establish the safety and efficacy of adenosine injection for the conversion of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia ( PSVT ) .
However , intravenous adenosine has been used for the treatment of PSVT in neonates , infants , children and adolescents ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
1 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of injected adenosine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , adenosine in geriatric patients should be used with caution since this population may have a diminished cardiac function , nodal dysfunction , concomitant diseases or drug therapy that may alter hemodynamic function and produce severe bradycardia or AV block .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following reactions were reported with intravenous adenosine used in controlled U . S . clinical trials . The placebo group had less than 1 % rate of all of these reactions .
Cardiovascular Facial flushing ( 18 % ) , headache ( 2 % ) , sweating , palpitations , chest pain , hypotension ( less than 1 % ) .
Respiratory Shortness of breath / dyspnea ( 12 % ) , chest pressure ( 7 % ) , hyperventilation , head pressure ( less than 1 % ) .
Central Nervous System Lightheadedness ( 2 % ) , dizziness , tingling in arms , numbness ( 1 % ) , apprehension , blurred vision , burning sensation , heaviness in arms , neck and back pain ( less than 1 % ) .
Gastrointestinal Nausea ( 3 % ) , metallic taste , tightness in throat , pressure in groin ( less than 1 % ) .
Post Marketing Experience ( see WARNINGS ) The following adverse events have been reported from marketing experience with adenosine .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , are associated with concomitant diseases and multiple drug therapies and surgical procedures , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Decisions to include these events in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors : ( 1 ) seriousness of the event , ( 2 ) frequency of the reporting , ( 3 ) strength of causal connection to the drug , or a combination of these factors .
Cardiovascular Prolonged asystole , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation , transient increase in blood pressure , bradycardia , atrial fibrillation , and Torsade de Pointes Respiratory Bronchospasm Central Nervous System Seizure activity , including tonic clonic ( grand mal ) seizures , and loss of consciousness .
OVERDOSAGE : The half - life of adenosine injection is less than 10 seconds .
Thus , adverse effects are generally rapidly self - limiting .
Treatment of any prolonged adverse effects should be individualized and be directed toward the specific effect .
Methylxanthines , such as caffeine and theophylline , are competitive antagonists of adenosine .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For rapid bolus intravenous use only .
Adenosine injection should be given as a rapid bolus by the peripheral intravenous route .
To be certain the solution reaches the systemic circulation , it should be administered either directly into a vein or , if given into an IV line , it should be given as close to the patient as possible and followed by a rapid saline flush .
Adult Patients The dose recommendation is based on clinical studies with peripheral venous bolus dosing .
Central venous ( CVP or other ) administration of adenosine injection has not been systematically studied .
The recommended intravenous doses for adults are as follows : Initial dose : 6 mg given as a rapid intravenous bolus ( administered over a 1 - 2 second period ) .
Repeat administration : If the first dose does not result in elimination of the supraventricular tachycardia within 1 to 2 minutes , 12 mg should be given as a rapid intravenous bolus .
This 12 mg dose may be repeated a second time if required .
Pediatric Patients The dosages used in neonates , infants , children and adolescents were equivalent to those administered to adults on a weight basis .
Pediatric Patients with a Body Weight < 50 kg : Initial dose : Give 0 . 05 to 0 . 1 mg / kg as a rapid IV bolus given either centrally or peripherally .
A saline flush should follow .
Repeat administration : If conversion of PSVT does not occur within 1 - 2 minutes , additional bolus injections of adenosine can be administered at incrementally higher doses , increasing the amount given by 0 . 05 to 0 . 1 mg / kg .
Follow each bolus with a saline flush .
This process should continue until sinus rhythm is established or a maximum single dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg is used .
Pediatric Patients with a Body Weight ≥ 50 kg : Administer the adult dose .
Doses greater than 12 mg are not recommended for adult and pediatric patients .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
HOW SUPPLIED : Adenosine injection is supplied as a sterile non - pyrogenic solution in normal saline as follows : NDC 17478 - 542 - 02 , 6 mg / 2 mL vial in a carton of 10 ( not shrink wrapped ) .
NDC 17478 - 542 - 25 , 6 mg / 2 mL vial in a carton of 25 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
DO NOT REFRIGERATE as crystallization may occur .
If crystallization has occurred , dissolve crystals by warming to room temperature .
The solution must be clear at the time of use .
Contains no preservatives .
Discard unused portion .
May require needle or blunt .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent or broken by hand .
REFERENCE : • Paul T , Pfammatter .
J - P .
Adenosine : an effective and safe antiarrhythmic drug in pediatrics .
Pediatrics Cardiology 1997 ; 18 : 118 - 126 .
AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 AI00N Rev . 06 / 16 VIAL LABEL 1 - 2 mL Single - Dose Vial Adenosine Injection , USP 6 mg / 2 mL ( 3 mg / mL ) Rx only For Rapid Bolus Intravenous Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] OUTER PACKAGE LABEL NDC 71872 - 7035 - 1 Adenosine Injection , USP Rx only 1 - 2 mL Vial 6 mg / 2 mL ( 3 mg / mL ) For Rapid Bolus Intravenous Use Sterile , Nonpyrogenic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
