Rx only DESCRIPTION : Physostigmine Salicylate Injection is a derivative of the Calabar bean , and its active moiety , physostigmine , is also known as eserine .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is soluble in water and a 0 . 5 % aqueous solution has a pH of 5 . 8 .
Physostigmine Salicylate Injection is available in 2 mL ampules , each mL containing 1 mg of Physostigmine Salicylate in a vehicle composed of sodium metabisulfite 0 . 1 % , benzyl alcohol 2 . 0 % as a preservative in Water for Injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Physostigmine Salicylate Injection is a reversible anticholinesterase which effectively increases the concentration of acetylcholine at the sites of cholinergic transmission .
The action of acetylcholine is normally very transient because of its hydrolysis by the enzyme , acetylcholinesterase .
Physostigmine Salicylate Injection inhibits the destructive action of acetylcholinesterase and thereby prolongs and exaggerates the effect of the acetylcholine .
Physostigmine Salicylate Injection contains a tertiary amine and easily penetrates the blood brain barrier , while an anticholinesterase , such as neostigmine , which has a quaternary ammonium ion is not capable of crossing the barrier .
Physostigmine Salicylate Injection can reverse both central and peripheral anticholinergia .
The anticholinergic syndrome has both central and peripheral signs and symptoms .
Central toxic effects include anxiety , delirium , disorientation , hallucinations , hyperactivity and seizures .
Severe poisoning may produce coma , medullary paralysis and death .
Peripheral toxicity is characterized by tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , mydriasis , vasodilation , urinary retention , diminution of gastrointestinal motility , decrease of secretion in salivary and sweat glands , and loss of secretions in the pharynx , bronchi , and nasal passages .
Dramatic reversal of the effects of anticholinergic symptoms can be expected in minutes after the intravenous administration of Physostigmine Salicylate Injection , if the diagnosis is correct and the patient has not suffered anoxia or other insult .
The duration of action of Physostigmine Salicylate Injection is relatively short , approximately 45 to 60 minutes .
Numerous drugs and some plants produce the anticholinergic syndrome either directly or as a side effect ; this undesirable or potentially dangerous phenomenon may be brought about by either therapeutic doses or overdoses of the drugs .
Such drugs include among others , atropine , other derivatives of the belladonna alkaloids , tricyclic antidepressants , phenothiazines , and antihistamines .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : To reverse the effect upon the central nervous system , caused by clinical or toxic dosages of drugs capable of producing the anticholinergic syndrome .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Physostigmine Salicylate Injection should not be used in the presence of asthma , gangrene , diabetes , cardiovascular disease , mechanical obstruction of the intestine or urogenital tract or any vagotonic state , and in patients receiving choline esters and depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents ( decamethonium , succinylcholine ) .
For post - anesthesia , the concomitant use of atropine with physostigmine salicylate is not recommended , since the atropine antagonizes the action of physostigmine .
WARNINGS : Contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
If excessive symptoms of salivation , emesis , urination and defecation occur , the use of Physostigmine Salicylate Injection should be terminated .
If excessive sweating or nausea occur , the dosage should be reduced .
Intravenous administration should be at a slow , controlled rate , no more than 1 mg per minute ( see dosage ) .
Rapid administration can cause bradycardia , hypersalivation leading to a respiratory difficulties and possible convulsions .
An overdosage of Physostigmine Salicylate Injection can cause a cholinergic crisis .
PRECAUTIONS : Because of the possibility of hypersensitivity in an occasional patient , atropine sulfate injection should always be at hand since it is an antagonist and antidote for physostigmine .
USAGE IN PREGNANCY : Safe use in pregnancy and lactation has not been established ; therefore , use in pregnant women , nursing mothers or women who may become pregnant requires that possible benefits be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Nausea , vomiting and salivation ; can be offset by reducing dosage .
Bradycardia and convulsions , if intravenous administration is too rapid .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
OVERDOSAGE : Can cause a cholinergic crisis .
Appropriate antidote is atropine sulfate .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Past Anesthesia Care : 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 mg intramuscularly or intravenously .
INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION SHOULD BE AT A SLOW CONTROLLED RATE OF NO MORE THAN 1 MG PER MINUTE .
Dosage may be repeated at intervals of 10 to 30 minutes if desired patient response is not obtained .
OVERDOSAGE OF DRUGS THAT CAUSE ANTICHOLINERGIC : 2 . 0 mg intramuscularly or INTRAVENOUSLY AT SLOW CONTROLLED RATE ( SEE ABOVE ) .
Dosage may be repeated if life threatening signs , such as arrhythmia , convulsions or coma occurs .
PEDIATRIC DOSAGE : Recommended dosage is 0 . 02 mg / kg ; intramuscularly or by slow intravenous injection , no more than 0 . 5 mg per minute .
If the toxic effects persist , and there is no sign of cholinergic effects , the dosage may be repeated at 5 to 10 minute intervals until a therapeutic effect is obtained or a maximum of 2 mg dosage is attained .
IN ALL CASES OF POISONING , THE USUAL SUPPORTIVE MEASURES SHOULD BE UNDERTAKEN .
HOW SUPPLIED : NDC 17478 - 510 - 02 2 mL Ampules packed 10 per box , 1 mg per mL .
STORAGE : Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
SOME DRUGS WHICH PRODUCE THE ANTICHOLINERGIC SYNDROME Amitriptyline , Amoxapine , Anisotropine , Atropine , Benztropine , Biperiden , Carbinoxamine , Clidinium , Cyclobenzaprine , Desipramine , Doxepin , Homatropine , Hyoscine , Hyoscyamine , Hyoscyamus , Imipramine , Lorazepam , Maprotiline , Mepenzolate , Nortriptyline , Propantheline , Protriptyline , Scopolamine , Trimipramine .
SOME PLANTS THAT PRODUCE THE ANTICHOLINERGIC SYNDROME Black Henbane , Deadly Night Shade , Devil ' s Apple , Jimson Weed , Loco Seeds or Weeds , Matrimony Vine , Night Blooming Jessamine , Stinkweed .
Akorn Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 PS00N Rev . 06 / 16 Principal Display Panel For Outer Package Label : NDC 71872 - 7074 - 1 Physostigmine Salicylate Injection ( 1 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAMUSCULAR OR INTRAVENOUS USE 1 - 2 mL Ampule Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Ampule Label : Physostigmine Salicylate Injection ( 1 mg / mL ) For I . M or I . V . Use 2 mL Single Dose Ampule Rx only Mfg . by .
Akorn , Inc .
PSADL Rev . 11 / 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
