1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vasostrict ® is indicated to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock ( e . g . , post - cardiotomy or sepsis ) who remain hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines .
• Vasostrict ® is indicated to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock ( e . g . , post - cardiotomy or sepsis ) who remain hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dilute Vasostrict ® with normal saline ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) to either 0 . 1 units / mL or 1 unit / mL for intravenous administration .
Discard unused diluted solution after 18 hours at room temperature or 24 hours under refrigeration .
( 2 . 1 ) • Post - cardiotomy shock : 0 . 03 to 0 . 1 units / minute ( 2 . 2 ) • Septic shock : 0 . 01 to 0 . 07 units / minute ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Preparation of Diluted Solutions Dilute Vasostrict ® in normal saline ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) prior to use for intravenous administration .
Discard unused diluted solution after 18 hours at room temperature or 24 hours under refrigeration .
Table 1 Preparation of diluted solutionsFluid restriction ?
Final concentration Mix Vasostrict ® Diluent No 0 . 1 units / mL 2 . 5 mL ( 50 units ) 500 mL Yes 1 unit / mL 5 mL ( 100 units ) 100 mL Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use , whenever solution and container permit .
2 . 2 Administration The goal of treatment is optimization of perfusion to critical organs , but aggressive treatment can compromise perfusion of organs , like the gastrointestinal tract , whose function is difficult to monitor .
The following advice is empirical .
In general , titrate to the lowest dose compatible with a clinically acceptable response .
For post - cardiotomy shock , start with a dose of 0 . 03 units / minute .
For septic shock , start with a dose of 0 . 01 units / minute .
If the target blood pressure response is not achieved , titrate up by 0 . 005 units / minute at 10 - to 15 - minute intervals .
The maximum dose for post - cardiotomy shock is 0 . 1 units / minute and for septic shock 0 . 07 units / minute .
After target blood pressure has been maintained for 8 hours without the use of catecholamines , taper Vasostrict ® by 0 . 005 units / minute every hour as tolerated to maintain target blood pressure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vasostrict ® ( vasopressin injection , USP ) is a clear , practically colorless solution for intravenous administration available as 20 units / mL in a single dose vial and 200 units / 10 mL ( 20 units / mL ) in a multiple dose vial .
• Injection : 20 units per mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Vasostrict ® is contraindicated in patients with known allergy or hypersensitivity to 8 - L - arginine vasopressin or chlorobutanol .
• Vasostrict ® is contraindicated in patients with known allergy or hypersensitivity to 8 - L - arginine vasopressin or chlorobutanol .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Can worsen cardiac function .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Worsening Cardiac Function Use in patients with impaired cardiac response may worsen cardiac output .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of vasopressin were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Bleeding / lymphatic system disorders : Hemorrhagic shock , decreased platelets , intractable bleeding Cardiac disorders : Right heart failure , atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , myocardial ischemia Gastrointestinal disorders : Mesenteric ischemia Hepatobiliary : Increased bilirubin levels Renal / urinary disorders : Acute renal insufficiency Vascular disorders : Distal limb ischemia Metabolic : Hyponatremia Skin : Ischemic lesions The most common adverse reactions include decreased cardiac output , bradycardia , tachyarrhythmias , hyponatremia and ischemia ( coronary , mesenteric , skin , digital ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Pressor effects of catecholamines and Vasostrict ® are expected to be additive .
( 7 . 1 ) • Indomethacin may prolong effects of Vasostrict ® .
( 7 . 2 ) • Co - administration of ganglionic blockers or drugs causing SIADH may increase the pressor response .
( 7 . 3 , 7 . 5 ) • Co - administration of drugs causing diabetes insipidus may decrease the pressor response .
( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Catecholamines Use with catecholamines is expected to result in an additive effect on mean arterial blood pressure and other hemodynamic parameters .
7 . 2 Indomethacin Use with indomethacin may prolong the effect of Vasostrict ® on cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Ganglionic Blocking Agents Use with ganglionic blocking agents may increase the effect of Vasostrict ® on mean arterial blood pressure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Furosemide Use with furosemide increases the effect of Vasostrict ® on osmolar clearance and urine flow [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Drugs Suspected of Causing SIADH Use with drugs suspected of causing SIADH ( e . g . , SSRIs , tricyclic antidepressants , haloperidol , chlorpropamide , enalapril , methyldopa , pentamidine , vincristine , cyclophosphamide , ifosfamide , felbamate ) may increase the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of Vasostrict ® .
7 . 6 Drugs Suspected of Causing Diabetes Insipidus Use with drugs suspected of causing diabetes insipidus ( e . g . , demeclocycline , lithium , foscarnet , clozapine ) may decrease the pressor effect in addition to the antidiuretic effect of Vasostrict ® .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : May induce uterine contractions .
( 8 . 1 ) • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric Use : No safety issues have been identified in older patients .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary : There are no adequate or well - controlled studies of Vasostrict ® in pregnant women .
It is not known whether vasopressin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with vasopressin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Clinical Considerations : Because of increased clearance of vasopressin in the second and third trimester , the dose of Vasostrict ® may need to be up - titrated to doses exceeding 0 . 1 units / minute in post - cardiotomy shock and 0 . 07 units / minute in septic shock .
Vasostrict ® may produce tonic uterine contractions that could threaten the continuation of pregnancy .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether vasopressin is present in human milk .
However , oral absorption by a nursing infant is unlikely because vasopressin is rapidly destroyed in the gastrointestinal tract .
Consider advising a lactating woman to pump and discard breast milk for 1 . 5 hours after receiving vasopressin to minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Vasostrict ® in pediatric patients with vasodilatory shock have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of vasopressin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with Vasostrict ® can be expected to manifest as consequences of vasoconstriction of various vascular beds ( peripheral , mesenteric , and coronary ) and as hyponatremia .
In addition , overdosage may lead less commonly to ventricular tachyarrhythmias ( including Torsade de Pointes ) , rhabdomyolysis , and non - specific gastrointestinal symptoms .
Direct effects will resolve within minutes of withdrawal of treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Vasopressin is a polypeptide hormone that causes contraction of vascular and other smooth muscles and antidiuresis .
Vasostrict ® is a sterile , aqueous solution of synthetic arginine vasopressin for intravenous administration .
The 1 mL solution contains vasopressin 20 units / mL , Water for Injection , USP , and sodium acetate buffer adjusted to a pH of 3 . 8 .
The 10 mL solution contains vasopressin 20 units / mL , chlorobutanol , NF 0 . 5 % as a preservative , and Water for Injection , USP and , sodium acetate buffer adjusted to a pH of 3 . 8 .
The chemical name of vasopressin is Cyclo ( 1 - 6 ) L - Cysteinyl - L - Tyrosyl - L - Phenylalanyl - L - Glutaminyl - L - Asparaginyl - L - Cysteinyl - L - Prolyl - L - Arginyl - L - Glycinamide .
It is a white to off - white amorphous powder , freely soluble in water .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C 46 H 65 N 15 O 12 S 2 Molecular Weight : 1084 . 23 One mg is equivalent to 530 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The vasoconstrictive effects of vasopressin are mediated by vascular V 1 receptors .
Vascular V 1 receptors are directly coupled to phopholipase C , resulting in release of calcium , leading to vasoconstriction .
In addition , vasopressin stimulates antidiuresis via stimulation of V 2 receptors which are coupled to adenyl cyclase .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics At therapeutic doses exogenous vasopressin elicits a vasoconstrictive effect in most vascular beds including the splanchnic , renal and cutaneous circulation .
In addition , vasopressin at pressor doses triggers contractions of smooth muscles in the gastrointestinal tract mediated by muscular V 1 - receptors and release of prolactin and ACTH via V 3 receptors .
At lower concentrations typical for the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin inhibits water diuresis via renal V 2 receptors .
In patients with vasodilatory shock vasopressin in therapeutic doses increases systemic vascular resistance and mean arterial blood pressure and reduces the dose requirements for norepinephrine .
Vasopressin tends to decrease heart rate and cardiac output .
The pressor effect is proportional to the infusion rate of exogenous vasopressin .
Onset of the pressor effect of vasopressin is rapid , and the peak effect occurs within 15 minutes .
After stopping the infusion the pressor effect fades within 20 minutes .
There is no evidence for tachyphylaxis or tolerance to the pressor effect of vasopressin in patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics At infusion rates used in vasodilatory shock ( 0 . 01 - 0 . 1 units / minute ) the clearance of vasopressin is 9 to 25 mL / min / kg in patients with vasodilatory shock .
The apparent t 1 / 2 of vasopressin at these levels is ≤ 10 minutes .
Vasopressin is predominantly metabolized and only about 6 % of the dose is excreted unchanged in urine .
Animal experiments suggest that the metabolism of vasopressin is primarily by liver and kidney .
Serine protease , carboxipeptidase and disulfide oxido - reductase cleave vasopressin at sites relevant for the pharmacological activity of the hormone .
Thus , the generated metabolites are not expected to retain important pharmacological activity .
Drug - Drug Interactions Indomethacin more than doubles the time to offset for vasopressin ' s effect on peripheral vascular resistance and cardiac output in healthy subjects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
The ganglionic blocking agent tetra - ethylammonium increases the pressor effect of vasopressin by 20 % in healthy subjects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Furosemide increases osmolar clearance 4 - fold and urine flow 9 - fold when co - administered with exogenous vasopressin in healthy subjects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Halothane , morphine , fentanyl , alfentanyl and sufentanyl do not impact exposure to endogenous vasopressin .
Special Populations Pregnancy : Because of a spillover into blood of placental vasopressinase the clearance of exogenous and endogenous vasopressin increases gradually over the course of a pregnancy .
During the first trimester of pregnancy the clearance is only slightly increased .
However , by the third trimester the clearance of vasopressin is increased about 4 - fold and at term up to 5 - fold .
After delivery the clearance of vasopressin returns to pre - conception baseline within two weeks .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No formal carcinogenicity or fertility studies with vasopressin have been conducted in animals .
Vasopressin was found to be negative in the in vitro bacterial mutagenicity ( Ames ) test and the in vitro Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosome aberration test .
In mice , vasopressin has been reported to have an effect on function and fertilizing ability of spermatozoa .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Increases in systolic and mean blood pressure following administration of vasopressin were observed in 7 studies in septic shock and 8 in post - cardiotomy vasodilatory shock .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Vasostrict ® ( vasopressin injection , USP ) is a clear , practically colorless solution for intravenous administration available as : NDC 42023 - 164 - 25 : A carton of 25 single dose vials each containing vasopressin 1 mL at 20 units / mL .
NDC 42023 - 190 - 01 : A carton of 1 multiple dose vial containing vasopressin 10 mL at 200 units / 10 mL ( 20 units / mL ) .
Store between 2 ° C and 8 ° C ( 36 ° F and 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Vials may be held up to 12 months upon removal from refrigeration to room temperature storage conditions ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C [ 68 ° F to 77 ° F ] , USP Controlled Room Temperature ) , anytime within the labeled shelf life .
Once removed from refrigeration , unopened vial should be marked to indicate the revised 12 month expiration date .
If the manufacturer ’ s original expiration date is shorter than the revised expiration date , then the shorter date must be used .
Do not use Vasostrict ® beyond the manufacturer ’ s expiration date stamped on the vial .
After initial entry into the 10 mL vial , the remaining contents must be refrigerated .
Discard the refrigerated 10 mL vial after 30 days after first puncture .
The storage conditions and expiration periods are summarized in the following table .
Unopened Refrigerated 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) Unopened Room Temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) Do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Opened ( After First Puncture ) 1 mL Vial Until manufacturer expiration date 12 months or until manufacturer expiration date , whichever is earlier N / A 10 mL Vial Until manufacturer expiration date 12 months or until manufacturer expiration date , whichever is earlier 30 days Distributed by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 R12 / 16 OS164J - 01 - 90 - 08 Vasostrict ® is a registered trademark of Par Pharmaceutical Companies , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 1 mL Vial Bag NDC 71872 - 7014 - 1 Rx Only Vasostrict ® ( Vasopressin Injection , USP ) 20 Units per mL For Intravenous Infusion Must be diluted prior to use Store between 2 ° C and 8 ° C ( 36 ° F and 46 ° F ) .
Do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Vials may be held at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 12 months .
1 mL Single Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
