A sterile aqueous solution for subcutaneous injection Rx Only BOXED WARNING WARNING : PROLONGED TOCOLYSIS Terbutaline sulfate has not been approved and should not be used for prolonged tocolysis ( beyond 48 - 72 hours ) .
In particular , terbutaline sulfate should not be used for maintenance tocolysis in the outpatient or home setting .
Serious adverse reactions , including death , have been reported after administration of terbutaline sulfate to pregnant women .
In the mother , these adverse reactions include increased heart rate , transient hyperglycemia , hypokalemia , cardiac arrhythmias , pulmonary edema and myocardial ischemia .
Increased fetal heart rate and neonatal hypoglycemia may occur as a result of maternal administration ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS : Prolonged Tocolysis ) .
DESCRIPTION Terbutaline Sulfate , USP , the active ingredient of Terbutaline Sulfate Injection , USP , is a beta ‑ adrenergic agonist bronchodilator available as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , aqueous solution in vials , for subcutaneous administration .
Each milliliter of solution contains 1 mg of Terbutaline Sulfate , USP ( 0 . 82 mg of the free base ) , sodium chloride for isotonicity , 0 . 055 % edetate disodium dihydrate as a stabilizing agent , and hydrochloric acid for adjustment to a target pH of 4 .
Terbutaline sulfate is ( ± ) - a - [ ( tert ‑ butylamino ) methyl ] - 3 , 5 - dihydroxybenzyI alcohol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
The molecular formula is ( C 12 H 19N0 3 ) 2 • H 2 SO 4 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terbutaline Sulfate , USP is a white to gray - white crystalline powder .
It is odorless or has a faint odor of acetic acid .
It is soluble in water and in 0 . 1 N hydrochloric acid , slightly soluble in methanol , and insoluble in chloroform .
Its molecular weight is 548 . 65 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Terbutaline sulfate injection is a beta - adrenergic receptor agonist .
In vitro and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that terbutaline exerts a preferential effect on beta 2 ‑ adrenergic receptors .
While it is recognized that beta 2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta 2 - receptors in the human heart , existing in a concentration between 10 % to 50 % .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established ( see WARNINGS ) .
Controlled clinical studies in patients given terbutaline subcutaneously have not revealed a preferential beta 2 - adrenergic effect .
The pharmacologic effects of beta - adrenergic agonists , including terbutaline , are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta - adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic 3 ’ , 5 ’ - adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) .
Increased cAMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
Controlled clinical studies have shown that terbutaline sulfate injection relieves bronchospasm in acute and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease by significantly increasing pulmonary flow rates ( e . g . , an increase of 15 % or more in FEV 1 ) .
After subcutaneous administration of 0 . 25 mg of terbutaline sulfate injection , a measurable change in expiratory flow rate usually occurs within 5 minutes , and a clinically significant increase in FEV 1 occurs within 15 minutes .
The maximum effect usually occurs within 30 to 60 minutes , and clinically significant bronchodilator activity may continue for 1 . 5 to 4 hours .
The duration of clinically significant improvement is comparable to that observed with equimilligram doses of epinephrine .
Preclinical Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histological evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Subcutaneous administration of 0 . 5 mg of terbutaline sulfate to 17 healthy , adult , male subjects resulted in mean ( SD ) peak plasma terbutaline concentration of 9 . 6 ( 3 . 6 ) ng / mL , which was observed at a median ( range ) time of 0 . 5 ( 0 . 08 to 1 . 0 ) hours after dosing .
The mean ( SD ) AUC ( 0 to 48 ) and total body clearance values were 29 . 4 ( 14 . 2 ) hr • ng / mL , and 311 ( 112 ) mL / min respectively .
The terminal half - life was determined in 9 of the 17 subjects and had a mean ( SD ) of 5 . 7 ( 2 . 0 ) hours .
After subcutaneous administration of 0 . 25 mg of terbutaline sulfate to two male subjects , peak terbutaline serum concentrations of 5 . 2 and 5 . 3 ng / mL were observed at about 20 minutes after dosing .
Elimination half - life of the drug in 10 of 14 patients was approximately 2 . 9 hours after subcutaneous administration , but longer elimination half - lives ( between 6 to 14 hours ) were found in the other 4 patients .
About 90 % of the drug was excreted in the urine at 96 hours after subcutaneous administration , with about 60 % of this being unchanged drug .
It appears that the sulfate conjugate is a major metabolite of terbutaline and urinary excretion is the primary route of elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbutaline Sulfate Injection , USP is indicated for the prevention and reversal of bronchospasm in patients 12 years of age and older with asthma and reversible bronchospasm associated with bronchitis and emphysema .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 .
Prolonged Tocolysis Terbutaline sulfate has not been approved and should not be used for prolonged tocolysis ( beyond 48 - 72 hours ) .
In particular , terbutaline sulfate should not be used for maintenance tocolysis in the outpatient or home setting ( see BOXED WARNING : Prolonged Tocolysis ) .
2 .
Hypersensitivity Terbutaline sulfate injection is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to sympathomimetic amines or any component of this drug product .
WARNINGS Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of terbutaline sulfate than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti ‑ inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Use of Anti - Inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti ‑ inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Cardiovascular Effects Terbutaline sulfate , like all other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of terbutaline sulfate at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta ‑ agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , terbutaline sulfate , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Seizures There have been rare reports of seizures in patients receiving terbutaline ; seizures did not recur in these patients after the drug was discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General Terbutaline , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , including ischemic heart disease , hypertension , and cardiac arrhythmias ; in patients with hyperthyroidism or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines or who have convulsive disorders .
Significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions and exacerbations of bronchospasm have been reported after terbutaline administration .
Beta - adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Large doses of intravenous terbutaline have been reported to aggravate pre - existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of terbutaline sulfate injection with other sympathomimetic agents is not recommended , since the combined effect on the cardiovascular system may be deleterious to the patient .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants : Terbutaline should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , since the action of terbutaline on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Beta - Blockers : Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as terbutaline sulfate injection , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta ‑ blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective betablockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
Diuretics : The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , terbutaline sulfate caused a significant and dose ‑ related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at dietary doses of 50 mg / ‌ kg and above ( approximately 810 times the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous ( sc ) dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
In a 21 - month study in CD - 1 mice , terbutaline sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses up to 200 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 600 times the maximum recommended daily sc dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The mutagenicity potential of terbutaline sulfate has not been determined .
Reproduction studies in rats using terbutaline sulfate demonstrated no impairment of fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 810 times the maximum recommended daily sc dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of terbutaline sulfate in pregnant women .
Published animal studies show that rat offspring exhibit alterations in behavior and brain development , including decreased cellular proliferation and differentiation when dams were treated subcutaneously with terbutaline during the late stage of pregnancy and lactation period .
Terbutaline exposures in rat dams were approximately 24 to 48 times the common human dose in adults of 2 - 4 mg / day , on a mg / m 2 basis .
Terbutaline sulfate has not been approved and should not be used for prolonged tocolysis ( beyond 48 - 72 hours ) .
In particular , terbutaline sulfate should not be used for maintenance tocolysis in the outpatient or home setting .
Serious adverse reactions , including death , have been reported after administration of terbutaline sulfate to pregnant women .
In the mother , these adverse reactions include increased heart rate , transient hyperglycemia , hypokalemia , cardiac arrhythmias , pulmonary edema and myocardial ischemia .
Increased fetal heart rate and neonatal hypoglycemia may occur as a result of maternal administration ( see BOXED WARNING : Prolonged Tocolysis and CONTRAINDICATIONS : Prolonged Tocolysis ) .
In animal embryofetal developmental studies , no teratogenic effects were observed in offspring when pregnant rats and rabbits received terbutaline sulfate at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day , approximately 810 and 1 , 600 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily subcutaneous dose for adults , on a mg / m 2 basis .
Terbutaline sulfate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefits justify the potential risk to the fetus .
Use In Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of terbutaline sulfate injection for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Terbutaline crosses the placenta .
After single dose IV administration of terbutaline to 22 women in late pregnancy who were delivered by elective Cesarean section due to clinical reasons , umbilical blood levels of terbutaline were found to range from 11 % to 48 % of the maternal blood levels .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Therefore , terbutaline sulfate injection should be used during nursing only if the potential benefit justifies the possible risk to the newborn .
Pediatric Use Terbutaline sulfate injection is not recommended for patients under the age of 12 years because of insufficient clinical data to establish safety and effectiveness .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of terbutaline sulfate injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions observed with terbutaline sulfate injection are similar to those commonly seen with other sympathomimetic agents .
All these reactions are transient in nature and usually do not require treatment .
The following table compares adverse reactions seen in patients treated with terbutaline sulfate injection ( 0 . 25 mg and 0 . 5 mg ) , with those seen in patients treated with epinephrine injection ( 0 . 25 mg and 0 . 5 mg ) , during eight double - blind crossover studies involving a total of 214 patients .
Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Reactions Terbutaline ( % ) Epinephrine ( % ) 0 . 25 mg N = 77 0 . 5 mg N = 205 0 . 25 mg N = 153 0 . 5 mg N = 61 Reaction Central Nervous System Tremor 7 . 8 38 . 0 16 . 3 18 . 0 Nervousness 16 . 9 30 . 7 8 . 5 31 . 1 Dizziness 1 . 3 10 . 2 7 . 8 3 . 3 Headache 7 . 8 8 . 8 3 . 3 9 . 8 Drowsiness 11 . 7 9 . 8 14 . 4 8 . 2 Cardiovascular Palpitations 7 . 8 22 . 9 7 . 8 29 . 5 Tachycardia 1 . 3 1 . 5 2 . 6 0 . 0 Respiratory Dyspnea 0 . 0 2 . 0 2 . 0 0 . 0 Chest discomfort 1 . 3 1 . 5 2 . 6 0 . 0 Gastrointestinal Nausea / vomiting 1 . 3 3 . 9 1 . 3 11 . 5 Systemic Weakness 1 . 3 0 . 5 2 . 6 1 . 6 Flushed feeling 0 . 0 2 . 4 1 . 3 0 . 0 Sweating 0 . 0 2 . 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 Pain at injection site 2 . 6 0 . 5 2 . 6 1 . 6 Note : Some patients received more than one dosage strength of terbutaline sulfate and epinephrine .
In addition , there were reports of anxiety , muscle cramps , and dry mouth ( < 0 . 5 % ) .
There have been rare reports of elevations in liver enzymes and of hypersensitivity vasculitis with terbutaline administration .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 - 233 - 2001 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The median sc lethal dose of terbutaline sulfate in mature rats was approximately 165 mg / ‌ kg ( approximately 2 , 700 times the maximum recommended daily sc dose for adults on a mg / ‌ m 2 basis ) .
The median sc lethal dose of terbutaline sulfate in young rats was approximately 2 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 32 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily sc dose for adults on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / ‌ or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and insomnia .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of terbutaline sulfate injection together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of terbutaline sulfate injection .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Vials should be used only for subcutaneous administration and not intravenous infusion .
Sterility and accurate dosing cannot be assured if the vials are not used in accordance with DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Discard unused portion after single patient use .
The usual subcutaneous dose of terbutaline sulfate injection is 0 . 25 mg injected into the lateral deltoid area .
If significant clinical improvement does not occur within 15 to 30 minutes , a second dose of 0 . 25 mg may be administered .
If the patient then fails to respond within another 15 to 30 minutes , other therapeutic measures should be considered .
The total dose within 4 hours should not exceed 0 . 5 mg .
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Terbutaline Sulfate Injection , USP , 1 mg / mL , is supplied at a volume of 1 mL contained in a 2 mL amber glass vial .
Each vial contains 1 mg of terbutaline sulfate per 1 mL of solution ; 0 . 25 mL of solution will provide the usual clinical dose of 0 . 25 mg .
NDC 0143 - 9746 - 10 Carton of 10 vials .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light by storing vials in original carton until dispensed .
Do not use if solution is discolored .
Discard unused portion after single patient use .
Manufactured by : HIKMA FARMACÊUTICA ( PORTUGAL ) , S . A ..
Estrada do Rio da Mó , nº 8 , 8 A e 8 B - Fervença , 2705 – 906 Terrugem SNT , PORTUGAL Distributed by : WEST - WARD PHARMACEUTICAL Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised : April 2011 VIAL LABEL Terbutaline Sulfate Injection , USP 1 mg / mL FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] OUTER PACKAGE LABEL NDC 71872 - 7080 - 1 Terbutaline Sulfate Injection , USP 1 mL Single Dose Vial 1 mg / mL FOR SUBCUTANEOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
