1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation in the setting of anesthesia .
VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension resulting primarily from vasodilation in the setting of anesthesia .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is injected intravenously either as a bolus or in a dilute solution as a continuous infusion .
Dilute before administration .
( 2 ) Dosing for treatment of hypotension during anesthesia • Bolus intravenous injection : 40 mcg to 100 mcg every 1 - 2 minutes as needed , not to exceed 200 mcg .
( 2 ) • Intravenous infusion : 10 mcg / min to 35 mcg / min , titrating to effect , not to exceed 200 mcg / min .
( 2 ) The dose should be adjusted according to the pressor response ( i . e . , titrate to effect ) .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus or continuous intravenous infusion to achieve the desired concentration : • Bolus : Dilute with normal saline or 5 % dextrose in water .
• Continuous infusion : Dilute with normal saline or 5 % dextrose in water .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use if the solution is colored or cloudy , or if it contains particulate matter .
The diluted solution should not be held for more than 4 hours at room temperature or for more than 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Discard any unused portion .
During VAZCULEP administration : • Correct intravascular volume depletion .
• Correct acidosis .
Acidosis may reduce the effectiveness of phenylephrine .
2 . 2 Dosing for Treatment of Hypotension during Anesthesia The following are the recommended dosages for the treatment of hypotension during anesthesia .
• The recommended initial dose is 40 to 100 mcg administered by intravenous bolus .
May administer additional boluses every 1 - 2 minutes as needed ; not to exceed a total dosage of 200 mcg .
• If blood pressure is below the target goal , start a continuous intravenous infusion with an infusion rate of 10 to 35 mcg / minute ; not to exceed 200 mcg / minute .
• Adjust dosage according to the blood pressure goal .
2 . 3 Prepare a 100 mcg / mL Solution for Bolus Intravenous Administration For bolus intravenous administration , prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 100 mcg / mL of VAZCULEP : • Withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of 10 mg / mL ) of VAZCULEP and dilute with 99 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
• Withdraw an appropriate dose from the 100 mcg / mL solution prior to bolus intravenous administration .
2 . 4 Prepare a Solution for Continuous Intravenous Administration For continuous intravenous infusion , prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 20 mcg / mL of VAZCULEP in 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP : • Withdraw 10 mg ( 1 mL of 10 mg / mL ) of VAZCULEP and dilute with 500 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
2 . 5 Directions for Dispensing from Pharmacy Bulk Vial The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion .
Each closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
The Pharmacy Bulk Vial is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Dispensing from a pharmacy bulk vial should be completed within 4 hours after the vial is penetrated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is available in three vial sizes : • Injection : 10 mg / mL in a single dose 1 mL vial ( 10 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) • Injection : 10 mg / mL in Pharmacy Bulk Package 5 mL vial ( 50 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) that will provide five 1 mL single doses • Injection : 10 mg / mL in Pharmacy Bulk Package 10 mL vial ( 100 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride per vial ) that will provide ten 1 mL single doses • Injection ( 3 ) • 1 mL single use vials containing 10 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) • 5 mL pharmacy bulk package vials containing 50 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) • 10 mL pharmacy bulk package vials containing 100 mg phenylephrine hydrochloride ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Extravasation during intravenous administration may cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue ( 5 . 3 ) • Severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output ( 5 . 4 ) • Allergic - type reactions : Sulfite ( 5 . 5 ) • Concomitant use with oxytocic drugs : Pressor effect of sympathomimetic pressor amines is potentiated ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Exacerbation of Angina , Heart Failure , or Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Because of its increasing blood pressure effects , VAZCULEP can precipitate angina in patients with severe arteriosclerosis or history of angina , exacerbate underlying heart failure , and increase pulmonary arterial pressure .
5 . 2 Peripheral and Visceral Ischemia VAZCULEP can cause excessive peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction and ischemia to vital organs , particularly in patients with extensive peripheral vascular disease .
5 . 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Necrosis Extravasation of VAZCULEP can cause necrosis or sloughing of tissue .
The infusion site should be checked for free flow .
Care should be taken to avoid extravasation of VAZCULEP .
5 . 4 Bradycardia VAZCULEP can cause severe bradycardia and decreased cardiac output .
5 . 5 Allergic Reactions VAZCULEP contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
5 . 6 Renal Toxicity VAZCULEP can increase the need for renal replacement therapy in patients with septic shock .
Monitor renal function .
5 . 7 Risk of Augmented Pressor Affect in Patients with Autonomic Dysfunction The increasing blood pressure response to adrenergic drugs , including VAZCULEP , can be increased in patients with autonomic dysfunction , as may occur with spinal cord injuries .
5 . 8 Pressor Effect with Concomitant Oxytocic Drugs Oxytocic drugs potentiate the increasing blood pressure effect of sympathomimetic pressor amines including VAZCULEP [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] , with the potential for hemorrhagic stroke .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to VAZCULEP are primarily attributable to excessive pharmacologic activity .
Adverse reactions reported in published clinical studies , observational trials , and case reports of VAZCULEP are listed below by body system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Reflex bradycardia , lowered cardiac output , ischemia , hypertension , arrhythmias Gastrointestinal disorders : Epigastric pain , vomiting , nausea Nervous system disorders : Headache , blurred vision , neck pain , tremors Vascular disorders : Hypertensive crisis Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Pruritis Most common adverse reactions during treatment : nausea , vomiting , and headache .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Avadel Legacy Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 622 - 2320 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agonistic effects with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) , oxytocin and oxytocic drugs , tricyclic antidepressants , angiotensin and aldosterone , atropine , steroids , norepinephrine transporter inhibitors , ergot alkaloids ( 7 . 1 ) • Antagonistic effects with α - adrenergic antagonists , phosphodiesterase Type 5 inhibitors , mixed α - and β - receptor antagonists , calcium channel blockers , benzodiazepines and ACE inhibitors , centrally acting sympatholytic agents ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Interactions that Augment Pressor Effect The increasing blood pressure effect of VAZCULEP is increased in patients receiving : • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) • Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs • Tricyclic antidepressants • Angiotensin , aldosterone • Atropine • Steroids , such as hydrocortisone • Norepinephrine transporter inhibitors , such as atomoxetine • Ergot alkaloids , such as methylergonovine maleate 7 . 2 Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect The increasing blood pressure effect of VAZCULEP is decreased in patients receiving : • α - adrenergic antagonists • Phosphodiesterase Type 5 inhibitors • Mixed α - and β - receptor antagonists • Calcium channel blockers , such as nifedipine • Benzodiazepines • ACE inhibitors • Centrally acting sympatholytic agents , such as reserpine , guanfacine 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk Summary There are no adequate or well - controlled studies with phenylephrine hydrochloride injection in pregnant women , nor have animal reproduction studies been conducted .
Published studies in normotensive pregnant rabbits report early onset labor , increased fetal lethality , and adverse placental effects with subcutaneous phenylephrine administration during gestation at doses approximately 1 . 9 times the total daily human dose .
Published studies in normotensive pregnant sheep report decreased uterine blood flow and decreased PaO 2 in the fetus with intravenous phenylephrine administration during late gestation at doses less than and similar to the human dose .
It is not known whether VAZCULEP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
VAZCULEP should be given to a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Clinical Considerations Labor and Delivery The most common maternal adverse reactions reported in published studies of phenylephrine use during neuraxial anesthesia during Cesarean delivery include nausea and vomiting , bradycardia , reactive hypertension , and transient arrhythmias .
Phenylephrine , when administered during labor or delivery , does not appear to alter either neonatal Apgar scores or umbilical artery blood - gas status .
Data Animal Data Studies in the published literature evaluating subcutaneously administered phenylephrine ( 0 . 33 mg / kg , TID ) in normotensive pregnant rabbits reported fetal deaths , adverse histopathology findings in the placenta ( necrosis , calcification and thickened vascular walls with narrowed lumen ) and possible teratogenic effects ( one incidence of clubbed feet , partial development of the intestine ) when treatment was initiated during the first trimester or later ; and premature labor when treatment was initiated at the second trimester or later .
The doses administered were 1 . 9 times the total daily human dose of 10 mg / day based on a body surface area comparison .
Published studies in pregnant normotensive sheep demonstrate that intravenous phenylephrine ( 4 mcg / kg / min for 30 minutes , equivalent to 3 . 6 to 4 . 1 mcg / kg / min human equivalent dose based on body surface area ) administered during the third trimester of pregnancy decreased uterine blood flow by 42 % .
This dose is 1 . 1 to 1 . 2 times the human bolus dose of 200 mcg / 60 kg person based on body surface area .
Mean fetal blood pressure and heart rate fluctuated above and below controls by about 7 % during the infusion .
Fetal PaO 2 was significantly decreased by approximately 26 % of control during the infusion .
Likewise , PaCO 2 was increased and pH was decreased .
The clinical significance of these findings is not clear ; however , the results suggest the potential for cardiovascular effects on the fetus when phenylephrine is used during pregnancy .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether phenylephrine is present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VAZCULEP and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition .
Exercise caution when VAZCULEP is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of phenylephrine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment In patients with liver cirrhosis [ Child Pugh Class B and Class C ] , dose - response data indicate decreased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Start dosing in the recommended dose range but consider that you may need to give more phenylephrine in this population .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) , dose - response data indicate increased responsiveness to phenylephrine .
Consider starting at the lower end of the recommended dose range , and adjusting dose based on the target blood pressure goal .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of VAZCULEP can cause a rapid rise in blood pressure .
Symptoms of overdose include headache , vomiting , hypertension , reflex bradycardia , a sensation of fullness in the head , tingling of the extremities , and cardiac arrhythmias including ventricular extrasystoles and ventricular tachycardia .
11 DESCRIPTION Phenylephrine is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist .
VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for intravenous use .
It must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus or continuous intravenous infusion .
The chemical name of phenylephrine hydrochloride is ( - ) - m - hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride , and its structural formula is depicted below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride is soluble in water and ethanol , and insoluble in chloroform and ethyl ether .
VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is sensitive to light .
Each mL contains : phenylephrine hydrochloride 10 mg , sodium chloride 3 . 5 mg , sodium citrate dihydrate 4 mg , citric acid monohydrate 1 mg , and sodium metabisulfite 2 mg in water for injection .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid if necessary .
The pH range is 3 . 5 - 5 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an α - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Interaction of phenylephrine with α - 1 adrenergic receptors on vascular smooth muscle cells causes activation of the cells and results in vasoconstriction .
Following phenylephrine hydrochloride intravenous administration , increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures , mean arterial blood pressure , and total peripheral vascular resistance are observed .
The onset of blood pressure increase following an intravenous bolus phenylephrine hydrochloride administration is rapid , typically within minutes .
As blood pressure increases following intravenous administration , vagal activity also increases , resulting in reflex bradycardia .
Phenylephrine has activity on most vascular beds , including renal , pulmonary , and splanchnic arteries .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following an intravenous infusion of phenylephrine hydrochloride , the observed effective half - life was approximately 5 minutes .
The steady - state volume of distribution of approximately 340 L suggests a high distribution into organs and peripheral tissues .
The average total serum clearance is approximately 2100 mL / min .
The observed phenylephrine plasma terminal elimination half - life was 2 . 5 hours .
Phenylephrine is metabolized primarily by monoamine oxidase and sulfotransferase .
After intravenous administration of radiolabeled phenylephrine , approximately 80 % of the total dose was eliminated within first 12 h ; and approximately 86 % of the total dose was recovered in the urine within 48 h .
The excreted unchanged parent drug was 16 % of the total dose in the urine at 48 h post intravenous administration .
There are two major metabolites , with approximately 57 and 8 % of the total dose excreted as m - hydroxymandelic acid and sulfate conjugates , respectively .
The metabolites are considered not pharmacologically active .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Long - term animal studies that evaluated the carcinogenic potential of orally administered phenylephrine hydrochloride in F344 / N rats and B6C3F 1 mice were completed by the National Toxicology Program using the dietary route of administration .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in mice administered approximately 270 mg / kg / day ( 131 times the maximum recommended daily dose of < 10 mg / day ) or rats administered approximately 50 mg / kg / day ( 48 times the maximum recommended daily dose of < 10 mg / day ) based on body surface area comparisons .
Mutagenesis : Phenylephrine hydrochloride tested negative in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( S . typhimurium strains TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 and TA1537 ) , the in vitro chromosomal aberrations assay , the in vitro sister chromatid exchange assay , and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Positive results were reported in only one of two replicates of the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
Impairment of Fertility : Studies to evaluate the effect of phenylephrine on fertility have not been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The evidence for the efficacy of VAZCULEP is derived from studies of phenylephrine hydrochloride in the published literature .
The literature support includes 16 studies evaluating the use of intravenous phenylephrine to treat hypotension during anesthesia .
The 16 studies include 9 studies where phenylephrine was used in low - risk ( ASA 1 and 2 ) pregnant women undergoing neuraxial anesthesia during Cesarean delivery , 6 studies in non - obstetric surgery under general anesthesia , and 1 study in non - obstetric surgery under combined general and neuraxial anesthesia .
Phenylephrine has been shown to raise systolic and mean blood pressure when administered either as a bolus dose or by continuous infusion following the development of hypotension during anesthesia .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL , is supplied as follows : NDC No .
Strength How Supplied 76014 - 004 - 25 10 mg / mL 1 mL vial ; for single use ( supplied in packages of 25 ) 76014 - 004 - 10 10 mg / mL 5 mL vial ; Pharmacy Bulk Package ( supplied in packages of 10 ) 76014 - 004 - 33 10 mg / mL 10 mL vial ; Pharmacy Bulk Package ( supplied as a single unit ) Vial stoppers are not manufactured with natural rubber latex .
Store VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection , 10 mg / mL at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Store in carton until time of use .
The 1 mL vials are for single use only ; the 5 and 10 mL vials are pharmacy bulk packages .
The diluted solution should not be held for more than 4 hours at room temperature or for more than 24 hours under refrigerated conditions .
Discard any unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION If applicable , inform patient , family member , or caregiver that certain medical conditions and medications might influence how VAZCULEP ( phenylephrine hydrochloride ) Injection works .
Manufactured for : Avadel Legacy Pharmaceuticals , LLC Chesterfield , MO 63005 Rev . 02 / 17 Outer Package Label - Principal Display Panel NDC 71872 - 7042 - 1 Vazculep ® Phenyleprhine HCI Injection 10 mg / mL 1 - 1 mL Single Dose Vial Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
