Rx Only ( pH 3 . 0 - 6 . 5 ) DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile , isotonic solution of Atropine Sulfate in Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Chloride added for isotonicity .
pH adjusted with Sulfuric Acid .
Preservative free .
Atropine is a white crystalline alkaloid which may be extracted from belladonna root and hyoscyamine or may be produced synthetically .
It is used in the form of atropine sulfate because this compound has much greater solubility in water .
The structural formula of Atropine is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Atropine has two actions .
The most important therapeutic action is the inhibition of smooth muscle and glands innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves .
Atropine also has central - nervous system activity , which may be stimulating or depressing depending upon the dose .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • In the treatment of parkinsonism .
Rigidity and tremor relieved by the apparently selective depressant action .
• In the gastrointestinal tract to relieve pylorospasm , hypertonicity of the small intestine and the hypermotility of the colon .
• To relieve hypertonicity of the uterine muscle .
• To relax the spasm of biliary and uretered colic and bronchial spasm .
• To diminish the tone of the detrusor muscle of the urinary bladder in the treatment of urinary tract disorders .
• To control the crying and laughing episodes in patients with brain lesions .
• In cases of closed head injuries which cause acetylcholine to be released or to be present in cerebrospinal fluid which in turn causes abnormal EEG patterns , stupor and neurological signs .
• In the management of peptic ulcer .
• In anesthesia to control excessive salivation and bronchial secretions .
• To control rhinorrhea of acute rhinitis or hay fever .
• As an antidote for pilocarpine , physostigmine , isoflurophate , choline esters , certain species of Aminata and in cases of anticholinesterase insecticide poisoning .
• In poisoning by the organic phosphate cholinesterase inhibitors found in certain insecticides and by chemical warfare “ nerve gases ” , large doses of atropine relieve the muscarine - like symptoms and some of the central - nervous - system manifestations .
Adults suspected of contact with organic phosphorus insecticides of the parathion type should be given atropine sulfate , 0 . 8 mg , intramuscularly .
If an atropine effect is not apparent within thirty minutes or if definite symptoms of the poisoning occur ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , pupillary constriction , pulmonary edema , fasciculations of eyelids and tongue , jerky ocular movements , and excessive sweating , salivation , and bronchial secretion ) , atropine sulfate , 2 mg , should be given intramuscularly at hourly intervals until signs of atropinization are observed .
Up to two or three times this dose ( 4 to 6 mg ) may be required in severe cases .
Removing contaminated clothing , washing the skin , and commencing artificial respiration and supportive therapy are also indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Conditions in which inhibition of postganglionic cholinergic nerves are undesirable , such as glaucoma and tachycardia .
Also contraindicated in asthma , because the parenteral dose which might relieve asthma would have an excessive drying effect upon mucous plugs in the bronchi .
Prostatic hypertrophy , while not a contraindication , requires special attention to signs of urinary retention .
WARNINGS This drug is effective in very low dosage and overdose may cause permanent damage or death , especially in children .
WARNINGS Doses of 0 . 5 to 1 mg of atropine are mildly stimulating to the central nervous system .
Larger doses may produce mental disturbances ; still larger doses are depressing .
Death from atropine poisoning , though rare , is usually due to paralysis of the medullary centers .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in mice in doses of 50 mg / kg of body weight and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Atropine Sulfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Toxic effects from overdosage of atropine are not uncommon , especially in children .
Individual tolerance varies greatly , but these systemic doses are likely to produce the following effects .
0 . 5 mg • Slight dryness of nose and mouth ; bradycardia .
1 mg • Greater dryness of nose and mouth , with thirst ; slowing then acceleration of heart ; slight mydriasis .
2 mg • Very dry mouth ; tachycardia with palpitation , mydriasis , slight blurring of near vision ; flushed , dry skin .
5 mg • Increase in above symptoms plus disturbance of speech ; difficulty in swallowing ; headache , hot , dry skin ; restlessness , with asthenia .
10 mg and over • Above symptoms to extreme degree , plus ataxia , excitement , disorientation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma .
65 mg • May be fatal .
A scarlatiniform rash may occur .
Atropine may produce fever , particularly in children , through inhibition of heat loss by evaporation .
Although large doses of atropine may cause an alarming condition , recovery is usual .
In the treatment of atropine poisoning , respiratory assistance and symptomatic support are indicated .
Pilocarpine is sometimes given but is of limited value .
OVERDOSAGE • If marked excitement is present , a short acting barbiturate , chloral hydrate of paraldehyde may be used for sedation .
Large doses should be avoided if possible and must be carefully controlled so that they will not add to the depressive stages of atropine poisoning .
• Artificial respiration with oxygen is necessary when respiration is depressed .
• Depression may be controlled by use of caffeine , sodium benzoate or picrotoxin together with the inhalation of oxygen .
• As a physiologic antidote , neostigmine methylsulfate may be given by intramuscular injection in doses of 500 mcg to 1 mg and repeated every 2 to 9 hours .
• Remaining therapy is purely symptomatic .
Icebags and alcohol sponges help to reduce fever , especially in children .
Careful nursing is essential .
The room should be darkened , because of the patient ’ s marked photophobia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dose of atropine is 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg .
Suggested doses for children are as follows : 7 - 16 pounds - 0 . 1 mg 17 - 24 pounds - 0 . 15 mg 24 - 40 pounds - 0 . 2 mg 40 - 65 pounds - 0 . 3 mg 65 - 90 pounds - 0 . 4 mg Over 90 pounds - 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg As indicated previously , however , these doses may be considerably exceeded in certain cases .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Product No .
Concentration Vial / Ampule Size NDC 0517 - 0805 - 25 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 5 mL 0 . 5 mL Ampule packed in boxes of 25 NDC 0517 - 0101 - 25 1 . 0 mg / 1 mL 1 mL Ampule packed in boxes of 25 NDC 0517 - 0401 - 25 0 . 4 mg / 1 mL 1 mL Single Dose Vial packed in boxes of 25 NDC 0517 - 1010 - 25 1 . 0 mg / 1 mL 1 mL Single Dose Vial packed in boxes of 25 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN1010 Rev . 1 / 09 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 1 mL OUTER PACKAGE LABEL ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 1 mg / mL NDC 71872 - 7100 - 1 1 mL Single - Dose Vial FOR INTRAVENOUS , INTRAMUSCULAR OR SUBCUTANEOUS USE PRESERVATIVE FREE Rx Only Each mL contains : Atropine Sulfate 1 mg , Sodium Chloride 9 mg , Water for Injection q . s . pH adjusted with Sulfuric Acid .
WARNING : DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º to 30ºC ( 59º to 86ºF ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
