Rx Only DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection USP , is a sterile , aqueous solution of lidocaine , an antiarrhythmic agent , prepared with the aid of hydrochloric acid .
It is intended for intravenous administration by either direct injection or continuous infusion .
Lidocaine hydrochloride is designated 2 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 ’ , 6 ’ - acetoxylidide monohydrochloride and isrepresented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] * pH of the above solution adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to finished product pH limits between 5 and 7 .
The medication and fluid pathway of these disposable syringes are sterile and nonpyrogenic in the original , unopened package with component caps in place .
These dosage forms do not contain preservatives ; once the unit is assembled and used , any remaining portion of the solution must be discarded with the entire unit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanisms of action and electrophysiology : Studies of the effects of therapeutic concentrations of lidocaine on the electrophysiological properties of mammalian Purkinje fibers have shown that lidocaine attenuates phase 4 diastolic depolarization , decreases automaticity and causes a decrease or no change in excitability and membrane responsiveness .
Action potential duration and effective refractory period of Purkinje fibers are decreased , while the ratio of effective refractory period to action potential duration is increased .
Action potential duration and effective refractory period of ventricular muscle are also decreased .
Effective refractory period of the AV node may increase , decrease or remain unchanged , and atrial effective refractory period is unchanged .
Lidocaine raises the ventricular fibrillation threshold .
No significant interactions between lidocaine and the autonomic nervous system have been described and consequently lidocaine has little or no effect on autonomic tone .
Clinical electrophysiological studies with lidocaine have demonstrated no change in sinus node recovery time or sinoatrial conduction time .
AV nodal conduction time is unchanged or shortened , and His - Purkinje conduction time is unchanged .
Hemodynamics : At therapeutic doses , lidocaine has minimal hemodynamic effects in normal subjects and in patients with heart disease .
Lidocaine has been shown to cause no , or minimal , decrease in ventricular contractility , cardiac output , arterial pressure or heart rate .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism : Lidocaine is rapidly metabolized by the liver , and less than 10 % of a dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Oxidative N dealkylation , a major pathway of metabolism , results in the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological activities of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , lidocaine .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 , - dimethylaniline .
The elimination half - life of lidocaine following an intravenous bolus injection is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
There are data that indicate that the half - life may be 3 hours or longer following infusions of greater than 24 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that alters liver function , including changes in liver blood flow , which could result from severe congestive heart failure in shock , may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be two - fold or more , greater in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics , but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Therapeutic effects of lidocaine are generally associated with plasma levels at 6 to 25 μmole / L ( 1 . 5 to 6 mcg free base per mL ) .
The blood to plasma distribution ratio is approximately 0 . 84 .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing plasma levels above 6 mcg free base per mL .
The plasma protein binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
In addition to lidocaine concentration , the binding is dependent on the plasma concentration of the α - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine readily crosses the placental and blood - brain barriers .
Dialysis has negligible effects on the kinetics of lidocaine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride administered intravenously , is specifically indicated in the acute management of ventricular arrhythmias such as those occurring in relation to acute myocardial infarction , or during cardiac manipulation , such as cardiac surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
Lidocaine hydrochloride should not be used in patients with Stokes - Adams syndrome .
Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome , or with severe degrees of sinoatrial , atrioventricular , or intraventricular block in the absence of an artificial pacemaker .
WARNINGS IN ORDER TO MANAGE POSSIBLE ADVERSE REACTIONS , RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS SHOULD BE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE WHEN LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION IS USED .
Systemic toxicity may result in manifestations of central nervous system depression ( sedation ) or irritability ( twitching ) , which may progress to frank convulsions accompanied by respiratory depression and / or arrest .
Early recognition of premonitory signs , assurance of adequate oxygenation and , where necessary , establishment of artificial airway with ventilatory support are essential to management of this problem .
Should convulsions persist despite ventilatory therapy with oxygen , small increments of anticonvulsant drugs may be used intravenously .
Examples of such agents include benzodiazepines ( e . g . , diazepam ) , ultra short - acting barbiturates ( e . g . , thiopental or thiamylal ) , or a short - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , pentobarbital or secobarbital ) .
If the patient is under anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( e . g . , succinylcholine ) may be used .
Longer acting drugs should be used only when recurrent convulsions are evidenced .
Should circulatory depression occur , vasopressors may be used .
Constant electrocardiographic monitoring is essential to the proper administration of lidocaine hydrochloride .
Signs of excessive depression of cardiac electrical activity such as sinus node dysfunction , prolongation of the P - R interval and QRS complex or the appearance or aggravation of arrhythmias , should be followed by flow adjustment and , if necessary , prompt cessation of the intravenous infusion of this agent .
Occasionally , acceleration of ventricular rate may occur when lidocaine hydrochloride is administered to patients with atrial flutter or fibrillation .
PRECAUTIONS 1 .
General : Caution should be employed in the use of lidocaine hydrochloride in patients with severe liver or kidney disease because accumulation of the drug or metabolites may occur .
Lidocaine hydrochloride should be used with caution in the treatment of patients with hypovolemia , severe congestive heart failure , shock , and all forms of heart block .
In patients with sinus bradycardia or incomplete heart block , the administration of lidocaine hydrochloride intravenously for the elimination of ventricular ectopic beats , without prior acceleration in heart rate ( e . g . , by atropine , isoproterenol or electric pacing ) , may promote more frequent and serious ventricular arrhythmias or complete heart block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Dosage should be reduced for children and for debilitated and / or elderly patients , commensurate with their age and physical status .
The safety of amide local anesthetic agents in patients with genetic predisposition to malignant hyperthermia has not been fully assessed ; therefore , lidocaine should be used with caution in such patients .
In hospital environments where drugs known to be triggering agents for malignant hyperthermia ( fulminant hypermetabolism ) are administered , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
It is not known whether lidocaine may trigger this reaction ; however , large doses resulting in significant plasma concentrations , as may be achieved by intravenous infusion , pose potential risk to these individuals .
Recognition of early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the triggering agent and institution of treatment including oxygen therapy , supportive measures and dantrolene ( for details see dantrolent package insert ) .
2 .
Patient Information : The patients should be advised of the possible occurrence of the experiences listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
3 .
LABORATORY tests : None known .
4 .
Drug Interactions Lidocaine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with digitalis toxicity accompanied by atrioventricular block .
Concomitant use of beta - blocking agents may reduce hepatic blood flow and thereby reduce lidocaine clearance .
Lidocaine and tocainide are pharmacologically similar .
The concomitant use of these two agents may cause an increased incidence of adverse reactions , including central nervous system adverse reactions such as seizure .
5 .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Long term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility of lidocaine hydrochloride have not been conducted .
6 .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the maximum human doses and have revealed no significant findings .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predicted of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
7 .
Labor and Delivery : The effects of lidocaine hydrochloride on the mother and the fetus , when used in the management of cardiac arrhythmias during labor and delivery , are not known .
Lidocaine readily crosses the placental barrier .
8 .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
9 .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established by controlled clinical studies ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
Adverse experiences may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported .
The adverse experiences under Central Nervous System and Cardiovascular System are listed , in general , in a progression from mild to severe .
1 .
Central Nervous System : CNS reactions are excitatory and / or depressant , and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or dou - ble vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory reactions may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case , the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness , merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
2 .
Cardiovascular System : Cardiovascular reactions are usually depressant in nature and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
3 .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Although specific studies have not been conducted , lidocaine hydrochloride has been used clinically without evidence of abuse of this drug or of physiological or physical dependence as a result of its use .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of lidocaine hydrochloride usually results in signs of central nervous system or cardiovascular toxicity .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Should convulsions or signs of respiratory depression and arrest develop , the patency of the airway and adequacy of ventilation must be assured immediately .
Should convulsions persist despite ventilatory therapy with oxygen , small increments of anticonvulsive agents may be given intravenously .
Examples of such agents include a benzodiazepine ( e . g . , diazepam ) , an ultrashort - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , thiopental or thiamylal ) , or a short - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , pentobarbital or secobarbital ) .
If the patient is under general anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( e . g . , succinylcholine ) may be administered .
Should circulatory depression occur , vasopressors may be used .
Should cardiac arrest occur , standard CPR procedures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage from lidocaine hydrochloride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : Single Direct Intravenous Injection ( bolus ) : ONLY THE 50 AND 100 MG DOSAGE SIZES should be used for direct intravenous injection .
The usual dose is 50 to 100 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride ( 0 . 70 to 1 . 4 mg / kg ; 0 . 32 to 0 . 63 mg / lb ) administered intravenously under ECG monitoring .
This dose may be administered at the rate of approximately 25 to 50 mg / min ( 0 . 35 to 0 . 70 mg / kg / min ; 0 . 16 to 0 . 32 mg / lb / min ) .
Sufficient time should be allowed to enable a slow circulation to carry the drug to the site of action .
If the initial injection of 50 to 100 mg does not produce a desired response , a second dose may be injected after 5 minutes .
( See illustrated instructions for use . )
NO MORE THAN 200 TO 300 MG OF LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED DURING A ONE HOUR PERIOD .
Continuous Intravenous Infusion : Following bolus administration , intravenous infusions of lidocaine hydrochloride may be initiated at the rate of 1 to 4 mg / min of lidocaine hydrochloride ( 0 . 014 to 0 . 057 mg / kg / min ; 0 . 006 to 0 . 026 mg / lb / min ) .
The rate of intravenous infusions should be reassessed as soon as the patient ’ s basic cardiac rhythm appears to be stable or at the earliest signs of toxicity .
It should rarely be necessary to continue intravenous infusions of lidocaine for prolonged periods .
Solutions for intravenous infusion may be prepared by the addition of one gram ( or two grams ) of lidocaine hydrochloride to one liter of 5 % dextrose in water using aseptic technique .
Approximately a 0 . 1 % ( or 0 . 2 % ) solution will result from this procedure ; that is , each milliliter will contain approximately 1 ( or 2 ) mg of lidocaine hydrochloride .
In those cases in which fluid restriction is medically appropriate , a more concentrated solution may be prepared .
Lidocaine hydrochloride injection has been found to be chemically stable for 24 hours after dilution in 5 % dextrose in water .
However , as with all intravenous admixtures , dilution of the solution should be made just prior to its administration .
It is very important that after adding lidocaine hydrochloride , or any other medication , to an I . V . container , the contents be thoroughly mixed before beginning the infusion .
When administering by continuous I . V . infusion , it is advisable to use a precision volume control I . V . set .
Pediatric Controlled clinical studies in the pediatric population to establish dosing schedules have not been conducted .
The American Heart Association ’ s Standards and Guidelines recommends a bolus dose of 1 mg / kg , and an infusion rate of between 20 to 50 mcg / kg / min for prolonged therapy .
When drug clearance is reduced , as in patients with shock , congestive heart failure or cardiac arrest , the infusion rate should not exceed 20 mcg / kg / min .
Note Regarding Prolonged Infusion : There are data that indicate the half - life may be 3 hours or longer following infusions of greater than 24 hours in duration .
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP For Direct Intravenous Injection I n unit - use packages containing a Luer - Jet ™ Luer - Lock Prefilled Syringe .
Ten cartons per package .
Concentration Stock No .
NDC No .
Size 2 % 3390 76329 - 3390 - 1 5 mL ( 100 mg ) Syringe Assembly Directions : USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED REV . 8 - 11 So .
El Monte , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Syringe Label FOR IV USE IN VENTRICULAR ARRHYTHMIAS SEE INSERT / SINGLE DOSE NO PRESERVATIVES ADDED Rx Only IMS , Limited So .
El Monte , CA 91733 , U . S . A . 7633900 B 8 - 11 5 mL 100 mg 20 mg / mL LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION , USP , 2 % Approx .
mg mL 0 0 20 1 40 2 60 3 80 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Carton Luer - Lock Prefilled Syringe Rx Only NDC 76329 - 3390 - 1 Stock No . 3390 LIDOCAINE HCl INJ . , 2 % 100 mg per 5 mL 100 mg INTRAVENOUS INJECTION FOR VENTRICULAR ARRHYTHMIAS Single use , do not reuse or resterilize .
LUER - JET ™ LUER - LOCK PREFILLED SYRINGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL : OUTER PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
