Description Panretin ® gel 0 . 1 % contains alitretinoin and is intended for topical application only .
The chemical name is 9 - cis - retinoic acid and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemically , alitretinoin is related to vitamin A .
It is a yellow powder with a molecular weight of 300 . 44 and a molecular formula of C20H28O2 .
It is slightly soluble in ethanol ( 7 . 01 mg / g at 25 oC ) and insoluble in water .
Panretin ® gel is a clear , yellow gel containing 0 . 1 % ( w / w ) alitretinoin in a base of dehydrated alcohol USP , polyethylene glycol 400 NF , hydroxypropyl cellulose NF , and butylated hydroxytoluene NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Alitretinoin ( 9 - cis - retinoic acid ) is a naturally - occurring endogenous retinoid that binds to and activates all known intracellular retinoid receptor subtypes ( RARα , RARβ , RARγ , RXRα , RXRβ and RXRγ ) .
Once activated these receptors function as transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes that control the process of cellular differentiation and proliferation in both normal and neoplastic cells .
Alitretinoin inhibits the growth of Kaposi ’ s sarcoma ( KS ) cells in vitro .
Pharmacokinetics No studies have examined plasma 9 - cis - retinoic acid concentrations before and after treatment with Panretin ® gel .
There is , however , indirect evidence that absorption is not extensive .
Plasma concentrations of 9 - cis - retinoic acid were evaluated during clinical studies in patients with cutaneous lesions of AIDS - related KS after repeated multiple - daily dose application of Panretin ® gel for up to 60 weeks .
The range of 9 - cis - retinoic acid plasma concentrations in these patients was similar to the range of circulating , naturally - occurring 9 - cis - retinoic acid plasma concentrations in untreated healthy volunteers .
Although there are no detectable plasma concentrations of 9 - cis - retinoic acid metabolites after topical application of Panretin ® gel , in vitro studies indicate that the drug is metabolized to 4 - hydroxy - 9 - cis - retinoic acid and 4 - oxo - 9 - cis - retinoic acid by CYP 2C9 , 3A4 , 1A1 , and 1A2 enzymes .
In vivo , 4 - oxo - 9 - cis - retinoic acid is the major circulating metabolite following oral administration of 9 - cis - retinoic acid .
No formal pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies between Panretin ® gel and antiretroviral agents have been conducted .
Clinical Studies Panretin ® gel is not a systemic therapy ; it therefore cannot treat visceral Kaposi ’ s sarcoma ( KS ) nor prevent the development of new KS lesions where it has not been applied .
Visceral KS disease was not monitored in these trials , and the appearance of new KS lesions was not considered part of the response assessment in clinical trials .
Panretin ® gel was evaluated in two multicenter , prospective , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled studies in patients with cutaneous lesions of AIDS - related KS .
In both studies the primary efficacy endpoint was the patients ’ cutaneous KS tumor response rate through 12 weeks of study drug treatment which was assessed by evaluating from 3 to 8 KS index lesions according to the modified AIDS Clinical Trials Group ( ACTG ) response criteria as applied to topical therapy ( i . e . , evaluation of height and area reductions of the index lesions only ; progressive disease in non - index lesions and new lesions were not considered progressive disease ; progressive disease was scored only in the treated index lesions ) .
A global evaluation by physicians was also carried out .
It considered all of the patient ’ s treated lesions ( index and other ) compared to baseline .
In this evaluation , patients with at least a 50 % improvement in the KS lesions were considered responders .
In addition , photographs of lesions in patients considered responders by the modified ACTG criteria were examined by the FDA for a cosmetically beneficial response , defined as at least a 50 % improvement in appearance compared to baseline , considering both the KS lesions and dermal toxicity at the lesion site , in at least 50 % of the index lesions and maintained for at least 3 weeks .
Patients were also asked about their satisfaction with the treatment .
In Study 1 , a total of 268 patients were entered from centers in the U . S . and Canada .
Patients were treated topically three to four times a day with either Panretin ® gel or a matching vehicle gel for a minimum of 12 weeks , followed by an open - label phase in patients who had not yet progressed on Panretin ® gel .
Responses during the double - blind phase are shown in Table 1 .
Responses to Panretin ® gel were seen in both previously untreated patients and in patients with prior systemic and / or topical KS treatment .
A total of 72 patients responded to Panretin ® gel during the randomized or crossover portions of the study .
At a median duration of monitoring of 16 weeks , only 15 % of the 72 patients had relapsed .
Panretin ® gel would not be expected to affect development of new lesions in untreated areas and these were seen in about 50 % of patients , at similar rates in treated and untreated patients , responders and non - responders .
The patients ’ assessment of their overall satisfaction with the drug effect on all treated lesions significantly favored Panretin ® gel .
Study 2 was an international study with a planned enrollment of 270 patients .
Patients were treated topically twice a day with Panretin ® gel or a matching vehicle for 12 weeks .
The study was stopped early because of positive interim results in the initial 82 patient data set .
Results of the study are shown in Table 1 .
Responses to Panretin ® gel were seen both in previously untreated patients and in patients with prior systemic and / or topical KS treatment .
TABLE 1 : Summary of Tumor Responses STUDY 1 STUDY 2 Panretin ® Gel N = 134 Vehicle Gel N = 134 Panretin ® Gel N = 36 Vehicle Gel N = 46 Modified ACTG Response ( index lesions ) 34 % PR 1 % CR 16 % PR p = 0 . 0012 36 % PR 7 % PR Physician ' s Global / Subjective Assessment ( all treated lesions ) 19 % PR 4 % PR p = 0 . 00014 47 % PR 11 % PR Beneficial Response Photographs ( index lesions only ) 15 % 4 % p = 0 . 0026 19 % 2 % In the clinical trials , responses were seen as early as two ( 2 ) weeks ; most patients , however , required four ( 4 ) to eight ( 8 ) weeks of treatment , and some patients did not experience significant improvement until 14 or more weeks of treatment .
The cumulative percentage of patients who achieved a response was less than 1 % at 2 weeks , 10 % at 4 weeks , and 28 % at 8 weeks .
In both studies , responses occurred in patients with a wide range of baseline CD4 + lymphocyte counts , including patients with CD4 + lymphocyte counts less than 50 cells / mm3 .
Nearly all patients received concomitant combination antiretroviral therapy .
Photographs of patients revealed a substantial erythematous and edematous response in some cases , leading to a cosmetically mixed outcome even in apparent responders .
Nonetheless , in Study 1 it appeared that a cosmetically satisfactory result occurred at about the same rate as the Physician ’ s Global response rate and in both studies such a response was more frequent than in the vehicle control .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Panretin ® gel is indicated for topical treatment of cutaneous lesions in patients with AIDS - related Kaposi ’ s sarcoma .
Panretin ® gel is not indicated when systemic anti - KS therapy is required ( e . g . , more than 10 new KS lesions in the prior month , symptomatic lymphedema , symptomatic pulmonary KS , or symptomatic visceral involvement ) .
There is no experience to date using Panretin ® gel with systemic anti - KS treatment .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Panretin ® gel is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to retinoids or to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS Pregnancy : Panretin ® gel could cause fetal harm if significant absorption were to occur in a pregnant woman .
9 - cis - Retinoic acid has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits and mice .
An increased incidence of fused sternebrae and limb and craniofacial defects occurred in rabbits given oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( about five times the estimated daily human topical dose on a mg / m2 basis , assuming complete systemic absorption of 9 - cis - retinoic acid , when Panretin ® gel is administered as a 60 g tube over 1 month in a 60 kg human ) during the period of organogenesis .
Limb and craniofacial defects also occurred in mice given a single oral dose of 50 mg / kg on day eleven of gestation ( about 127 times the estimated daily human topical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Oral 9 - cis - retinoic acid was also embryocidal , as indicated by early resorptions and post - implantation loss when it was given during the period of organogenesis to rabbits at doses of 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( about 15 times the estimated daily human topical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) and to rats at doses of 5 mg / kg / day ( about 25 times the estimated daily human topical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Animal reproduction studies with topical 9 - cis - retinoic acid have not been conducted .
It is not known whether topical Panretin ® gel can modulate endogenous 9 - cis - retinoic acid levels in a pregnant woman nor whether systemic exposure is increased by application to ulcerated lesions or by duration of treatment .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If Panretin ® gel is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking it , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of child - bearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
PRECAUTIONS Panretin ® gel is indicated for topical treatment of Kaposi ’ s sarcoma .
Patients with cutaneous T - cell lymphoma were less tolerant of topical Panretin ® gel ; five of seven patients had 6 episodes of treatment - limiting toxicities — grade 3 dermal irritation — with Panretin ® gel ( 0 . 01 % or 0 . 05 % ) .
Photosensitivity Retinoids as a class have been associated with photosensitivity .
There were no reports of photosensitivity associated with the use of Panretin ® gel in the clinical studies .
Nonetheless , because in vitro data indicate that 9 - cis - retinoic acid may have a weak photosensitizing effect , patients should be advised to minimize exposure of treated areas to sunlight and sunlamps during the use of Panretin ® gel .
Drug Interactions Patients who are applying Panretin ® gel should not concurrently use products that contain DEET ( N , N - diethyl - m - toluamide ) , a common component of insect repellent products .
Animal toxicology studies showed increased DEET toxicity when DEET was included as part of the formulation .
Although there was no clinical evidence in the vehicle - controlled studies of drug interactions with systemic antiretroviral agents , including protease inhibitors , macrolide antibiotics , and azole antifungals , the effect of Panretin ® gel on the steady - state concentrations of these drugs is not known .
No drug interaction data are available on concomitant administration of Panretin ® gel and systemic anti - KS agents .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions No interference with laboratory tests has been observed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to assess the carcinogenic potential of 9 - cis - retinoic acid have not been conducted .
9 - cis - Retinoic acid was not mutagenic in vitro ( bacterial assays , Chinese hamster ovary cell HGPRT mutation assay ) and was not clastogenic in vitro ( chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes ) nor in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Pregnancy Category D ( see " Warnings " section ) Nursing Mothers It is not known whether alitretinoin or its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for adverse reactions from Panretin ® gel in nursing infants , mothers should discontinue nursing prior to using the drug .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Inadequate information is available to assess safety and efficacy in patients age 65 years or older .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Panretin ® gel has been assessed in clinical studies of 385 patients with AIDS - related KS .
Adverse events associated with the use of Panretin ® gel in patients with AIDS - related KS occurred almost exclusively at the site of application .
The dermal toxicity begins as erythema ; with continued application of Panretin ® gel , erythema may increase and edema may develop .
Dermal toxicity may become treatment - limiting , with intense erythema , edema , and vesiculation .
Usually , however , adverse events are mild to moderate in severity ; they led to withdrawal from the study in only 7 % of the patients .
Severe local ( application site ) skin adverse events occurred in about 10 % of patients in the U . S . study ( versus 0 % in the vehicle control ) .
Table 2 lists the adverse events that occurred at the application site with an incidence of at least 5 % during the double - blind phase in the Panretin ® gel - treated group and in the vehicle control group in either of the two controlled studies .
Adverse events were reported at other sites but generally were similar in the two groups .
TABLE 2 : Adverse Events with an Incidence of at Least 5 % at the Application Site in Either Controlled Study in Patients Receiving Panretin ® Gel or Vehicle ControlIncludes Investigator terms : 1 Erythema , scaling , irritation , redness , rash , dermatitis 2 Burning , pain 3 Itching , pruritus 4 Flaking , peeling , desquamation , exfoliation 5 Excoriation , cracking , scab , crusting , drainage , eschar , fissure or oozing 6 Stinging , tingling 7 Edema , swelling , inflammation Adverse Event Term Study 1 Study 2 Panretin ® Gel N = 134 Pts .
% Vehicle Gel N = 134 Pts .
% Panretin ® Gel N = 36 Pts .
% Vehicle Gel N = 46 Pts .
% Rash1 77 11 25 4 Pain2 34 7 0 4 Pruritus3 11 4 8 4 Exfoliative dermatitis4 9 2 3 0 Skin disorder5 8 1 0 0 Paresthesia6 3 0 22 7 Edema7 8 3 3 0 OVERDOSAGE There has been no experience with acute overdose of Panretin ® gel in humans .
Systemic toxicity following acute overdosage with topical application of Panretin ® gel is unlikely because of limited systemic plasma levels observed with normal therapeutic doses .
There is no specific antidote for overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Panretin ® gel should initially be applied two ( 2 ) times a day to cutaneous KS lesions .
The application frequency can be gradually increased to three ( 3 ) or four ( 4 ) times a day according to individual lesion tolerance .
If application site toxicity occurs , the application frequency can be reduced .
Should severe irritation occur , application of drug can be temporarily discontinued for a few days until the symptoms subside .
Sufficient gel should be applied to cover the lesion with a generous coating .
The gel should be allowed to dry for three to five minutes before covering with clothing .
Because unaffected skin may become irritated , application of the gel to normal skin surrounding the lesions should be avoided .
In addition , do not apply the gel on or near mucosal surfaces of the body .
A response of KS lesions may be seen as soon as two weeks after initiation of therapy but most patients require longer application .
With continued application , further benefit may be attained .
Some patients have required over 14 weeks to respond .
In clinical trials , Panretin ® gel was applied for up to 96 weeks .
Panretin ® gel should be continued as long as the patient is deriving benefit .
Occlusive dressings should not be used with Panretin ® gel .
How Supplied Panretin ® gel is available in tubes containing 60 grams .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated San Diego , CA 92121 by : Bristol - Myers Squibb Company Princeton , NJ 08543 USA NDC 64365 - 501 - 01 Ligand Part # 3000153 ( Rev . 1001 )
