DESCRIPTION Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP is a palatable lemon - flavored water - soluble iodinated radiopaque contrast medium for oral or rectal administration only .
Each mL contains 660 mg diatrizoate meglumine and 100 mg diatrizoate sodium ; pH has been adjusted to 6 . 0 to 7 . 6 with sodium hydroxide .
Each mL contains approximately 4 . 8 mg ( 0 . 21 mEq ) sodium and 367 mg organically bound iodine .
Inactive ingredients : edetate disodium , flavor , hydrochloric acid , polysorbate 80 , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone , sodium citrate and sodium hydroxide .
Diatrizoate meglumine is designated chemically as 1 - deoxy - 1 - ( methylamino ) - D - glucitol 3 , 5 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodo - benzoate ( salt ) ; diatrizoate sodium is monosodium 3 , 5 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodobenzoate .
Structural formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diatrizoate Meglumine C11H9I3N2O4 . C7H17NO5 MW 809 . 13 Organically Bound Iodine : 47 . 1 % CAS – 131 - 49 - 7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diatrizoate Sodium C11H8I3N2NaO4 MW 635 . 90 Organically Bound Iodine : 59 . 9 % CAS – 737 - 31 - 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most important characteristic of contrast media is the iodine content .
The relatively high atomic weight of iodine contributes sufficient radiodensity for radiographic contrast with surrounding tissues .
Diagnostic enteral radiopaque agents have few known pharmacological effects .
Diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium exert a mild laxative effect attributable to their high osmolarity .
Diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium are sparingly absorbed from the intact gastrointestinal tract , and therefore permit gastrointestinal opacification and delineation after oral or rectal administration .
Oral administration is used for radiographic evaluation of the esophagus , stomach and proximal small intestine .
Rectal administration is used for examination of the colon ; however , visualization of the distal small bowel is generally unsatisfactory , since the hypertonicity of the medium causes intraluminal diffusion of water with subsequent dilution of the medium .
Enough absorption from the gastrointestinal tract to permit incidental visualization of urinary tract has been reported ; this should be considered when thyroid testing is being contemplated , since iodine - mediated thyrotropic effects may occur ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution is indicated for radiographic examination of segments of the gastrointestinal tract ( esophagus , stomach , proximal small intestine , and colon ) .
The preparation is particularly indicated when a more viscous agent such as barium sulfate , which is not water - soluble , is not feasible or is potentially dangerous .
Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution may also be used as an adjunct to contrast enhancement is computed tomography of the torso ( body imaging ) ; the preparation is indicated , in conjunction with intravenous administration of a radiopaque contrast agent , when unenhanced imaging may not provide sufficient definition in distinguishing normal loops of bowel from adjacent organs or areas of suspected pathology .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not administer to patients with a known hypersensitivity to Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution or any of its components .
WARNINGS Dehydration : Administration of hypertonic Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution may lead to hypovolemia and hypotension due to fluid loss from the intestine .
A 1 in 4 . 6 ( 1 : 4 . 6 ) dilution of Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution yields an approximately isotonic 16 . 5 percent diatrizoate salts solution ; less dilute solutions are hypertonic and may lead to intraluminal movement of fluid with resulting hypovolemia .
In young or debilitated children and in elderly cachectic persons , the loss of plasma fluid may be sufficient to cause a shock - like state .
If Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution is used in infants and children ( under 10 kg ) or in dehydrated or debilitated patients , the solution must be prepared using the specific dilutions described in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
In debilitated patients and in patients with electrolyte imbalances , postprocedural monitoring of hydration , serum osmolarity , electrolytes and clinical status is essential .
In pediatric or severely debilitated patients , the maintenance of an open intravenous fluid line for rehydration may be advisable should hypotension or shock supervene .
Electrolyte disturbances must be corrected prior to the administration of any hypertonic Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution .
Aspiration : Aspiration of Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution into the trachea and airways may result in serious pulmonary complications including , pulmonary edema , pneumonitis or death Bronchial entry of any orally administered contrast medium causes a copious osmotic effusion .
Therefore , avoid use of Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution in patients with esophagotracheal fistula and minimize risks for pulmonary aspiration in all patients .
If Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution is given by nasogastric tube , the position of the tube in the stomach must be verified before administration .
Anaphylactic reactions : Anaphylactic reactions , including fatalities , have been reported with the use of Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution .
Patients at increased risk include those with a history of a previous reaction to a contrast medium , patients with a known sensitivity to iodine , and patients with a known clinical hypersensitivity ( bronchial asthma , hay fever , and food allergies ) .
Medical personnel trained in the treatment of anaphylactic reactions and the necessary drugs and medical equipment should always be readily available when Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution is used .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the prerequisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
Appropriate facilities should be available for coping with any complication of administration , as well as for treatment of reaction to the contrast medium ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , and PRECAUTIONS , Information for the Patient ) .
Rectal administration of undiluted Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution in any patient , particularly with large doses and / or in those with overdistention , has been reported to be associated with mucosal irritation .
Cases of hyperthyroidism have been reported with the use of oral contrast media .
Some of these patients reportedly had multinodular goiters which may have been responsible for the increased hormone synthesis in response to excess iodine .
Administration of an intravascular iodinated radiopaque diagnostic agent to a hyperthyroid patient precipitated thyroid storm ; a similar situation could follow administration of oral preparations of iodides .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when administering enteral gastrointestinal radiopaque agents to hyperthyroid and euthyroid goiterous patients .
Consideration should be given to the potential for precipitation of water - soluble contrast agents under conditions that may promote hyperacidity ( i . e . , fasting , emotional upset , or stress ) .
Harmful effects directly attributable to precipitate formation have not been reported .
However , the possibility of interpreting the precipitate radiologically as an anatomical abnormality ( i . e . , ulceration of the stomach or small intestine ) or injury , should be kept in mind .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients should receive the following information and instructions : • This drug has been prescribed to perform an x - ray of the gastrointestinal tract .
• Inform the physician if pregnant or if allergic to iodine , any foods , or x - ray materials .
• The iodine in diatrizoate salts may interfere with some thyroid tests if these are needed in the future .
Inform the attending physician at that time about this gastrointestinal study .
• This drug may cause abdominal cramping , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , skin rashes , itching , heartburn , dizziness , or headache in some patients , but most reactions are mild and pass quickly DRUG & OR LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Thyroid Function Tests The results of protein bound iodine ( PBI ) and radioactive iodine uptake studies , which depend on iodine estimations , will not accurately reflect thyroid function for six months , and possibly as long as one year , following the administration of diagnostic enteral radiopaque media .
Thyroid function tests , if indicated , generally should be performed prior to the administration of any iodinated agent .
However , thyroid function can be evaluated after use of these agents by using T3 resin uptake and total or free thyroxine ( T4 ) assays which are not dependent on iodine estimations .
Pancreatic Tests Small quantities of contrast medium in the intestinal tract may cause false low trypsin values when determined spectrophotometrically .
Therefore , duodenal instillation should not precede pancreatic function tests involving spectrophotometric trypsin assays .
Any test which might be affected by contrast media should be performed prior to administration of the contrast medium .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential , or possible impairment of fertility in males or females PREGNANCY When administered intravenously , diatrizoate salts cross the placenta and are evenly distributed in fetal tissues .
No teratogenic effects attributable to diatrizoate meglumine or diatrizoate sodium have been observed in teratology studies performed in animals .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because small amounts of these agents may be absorbed , and animal teratology studies are not always predictive of human response , these agents should be used during pregnancy only when clearly needed .
Procedures including radiation involve a certain risk related to the exposure of the fetus .
NURSING MOTHERS Diatrizoate meglumine is excreted in breast milk following intravascular administration .
Because small amounts of enteral gastrointestinal radiopaque agents may be absorbed following oral or rectal administration , caution should be exercised when they are administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE See WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , General Local injury to the colonic mucosa , particularly in the presence of underlying disease which interferes with intestinal viability , has been reported in cases where recommended doses and dilutions ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) were not used ; when extemporaneous dosage is elected , the polysorbate 80 level in the dose may be contributing factor to injury .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions to enteral diagnostic radiopaque agents are mild and transitory .
Nausea , vomiting and / or diarrhea , urticaria with erythema , hypoxia , acute dyspnea , tachyarrhythmia , and anaphylaxis have occurred following ingestion of the contrast medium , particularly when high concentrations of large volumes of solution are administered .
Severe changes in serum osmolarity and electrolyte concentrations may produce shock - like states ( see WARNINGS ) .
It should be kept in mind that serious or anaphylactoid reactions that may occur with intravascular administration of radiopaque contrast agents are theoretically possible following administration by other routes .
OVERDOSAGE See WARNINGS regarding potential hypovolemia , hypotension , or shock .
The maintenance of an open intravenous fluid line for rehydration may be advisable .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for appropriate doses and dilutions .
Treatment of an overdose should be directed toward the support of all vital functions , and prompt institution of symptomatic therapy .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION General This medium is not to be used for the preparations of solutions for parenteral administration .
Oral or rectal administration only .
Discard any unused portion after procedure .
The routine preparatory measures employed for barium studies are also appropriate for this agent .
For pediatric and severely cachectic patients the maintenance of an intravenous fluid line may be advisable .
Radiographic Examination of Segments of the Gastrointestinal Tract Oral Administration : Adult oral dosage may range from 30 to 90 mL ( 11 to 33 g iodine ) , depending on the nature of the examination and the size of the patient .
For infants and children less than 5 years of age , 30 mL ( 11 g iodine ) are usually adequate ; for children 5 to 10 years of age , the suggested dose is 60 mL ( 22 g iodine ) .
These pediatric doses may be diluted 1 : 1 , if desired , with water , carbonated beverage , milk or mineral oil .
When used in infants , the solution may be given in a nursing bottle .
Pediatric doses may also be used in dehydrated and / or debilitated adult patients .
A 1 : 1 dilution is also recommended when the contrast medium is used in elderly cachectic individuals .
For very young ( under 10 kg ) and debilitated children the dose should be diluted : 1 part Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution in 3 parts water is recommended .
For Enemas or Enterostomy Instillations : Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution should be diluted when it is used for enemas and enterostomy instillations .
When used as an enema , the suggested dilution for adults is 240 mL ( 88 g iodine ) in 1 , 000 mL of tap water .
For children under 5 years of age , a 1 : 5 dilution in tap water is suggested ; for children over 5 years of age , 90 mL ( 33 g iodine ) in 500 mL of tap water is a suitable dilution .
Tomography ( Body Imaging ) A usual adult dose is 240 mL of a dilute Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution prepared by diluting 25 mL ( 9 . 17 g iodine ) to one liter with tap water .
Less dilute solutions [ up to 77 mL ( 28 . 26 g iodine ) diluted to one liter with tap water ] may be used when indicated .
The dose is administered orally about 15 to 30 minutes prior to imaging in order to permit the contrast medium to reach the pelvic loops .
HOW SUPPLIED Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP is a clear , colorless to pale yellow liquid with citrus aroma and is available in packages of : NDC 53041 - 690 - 09 Twenty - four 30 mL single dose bottles NDC 53041 - 690 - 03 Twelve 120 mL single dose bottles NDC 53041 - 688 - 03 Twelve 120 mL single dose bottles ( PET ) Storage Protect from light .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; avoid excessive heat .
Discard unused portion .
Manufactured by : Guardian Drug Company 2 Charles Court , Dayton , New Jersey 08810 Revised : 08 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 53041 - 690 - 09 37 % Organically Bound Iodine Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP For oral or rectal use only Do Not Inject Rx only 30 mL Guardian [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53041 - 690 - 09 24 x 30 mL Bottle Shipper / case label Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53041 - 690 - 03 37 % Organically Bound Iodine Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP For oral or rectal use only Do Not Inject Rx only 120 mL Guardian [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53041 - 690 - 03 12 x 120 mL Bottle Shipper / case label Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53041 - 688 - 03 37 % Organically Bound Iodine Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP For oral or rectal use only Do Not Inject Rx only 120 mL Guardian [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 53041 - 688 - 03 12 x 120 mL Bottle Shipper / case label Diatrizoate Meglumine and Diatrizoate Sodium Solution USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
