Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Guaifenesin 400 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with any other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • mL = milliliter • adults and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • each 20 mL contains ; potassium 6 mg • each 20 mL contains : sodium 13 mg • store between 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , D & C red # 33 , dextrose , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium hydroxide , sucralose , xanthan gum Principal Display Panel Maximum Strength Cough & Chest Congestion DM Dextromethorphan HBr / Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin / Expectorant • Relieves cough & congestion • Thins & loosens mucus • For ages 12 & over Cherry flavor Compare to Delsym ® Cough + ™ Chest Congestion DM Maximum Strength active ingredients ≠≠ FL OZ ( mL ) TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SAFETY SEAL AROUND AND UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING ≠≠ This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Delsym ® Cough + ™ Chest Congestion DM .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 walgreens . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
