DESCRIPTION Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension contains : Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide . . . . . . . . . . .
.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 mg Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 mg Chlorpheniramine Maleate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 mg Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension is used for oral administration only .
Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension contains the following inactive ingredients : Acesulfame K , Artificial Bubblegum Flavor , Artificial Grape Flavor , Aspartame , Bitter Mask , Citric Acid , FDC Blue # 1 , FDC Red # 40 , Glycerin , Hydrochloric Acid , Methylparaben , Magnesium Aluminometasilicate , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate Dihydrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Sucralose , Xanthan Gum .
Plus tannic acid yielding a tannate suspension .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide : 3 - Methoxy - 17 - methyl - 9α , 13α , 14α - morphinan .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride : [ S ( R * , R * ) ] - α - [ 1 - ( methylamino ) ethyl ] benzenemethanol hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chlorpheniramine Maleate : 2 - [ p - chloro - α - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - benzyl ] pyridine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dextromethorphan is an antitussive agent which , unlike the isomeric levorphanol , has no analgesic or addictive properties .
The drug acts centrally and elevates the threshold for coughing .
It is about equal to codeine in depressing the cough reflex .
In therapeutic dosage , dextromethorphan does not inhibit ciliary activity .
Dextromethorphan is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , metabolized by the liver and excreted primarily in the urine .
Pseudoephedrine is an α - adrenergic receptor antagonist ( sympathomimetic ) which produces vasoconstriction by stimulating α - receptors within the mucosa of the respiratory tract .
Clinically , pseudoephedrine shrinks swollen mucous membranes , reduces tissue hyperemia , edema , and nasal congestion , and increases nasal airway patency .
The vasoconstriction action of pseudoephedrine is similar to that of ephedrine .
In the usual dose it has minimal vasopressor effects .
Pseudoephedrine is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Acidic urine is associated with faster elimination of the drug .
The drug is distributed to body tissues and fluids , including the fetal tissue , breast milk and the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Chlorpheniramine is an alkylamine - type antihistamine .
The antihistamine in Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension acts by competing with histamine for H1 histamine receptor sites , thereby preventing the action of histamine on the cell .
Clinically , chlorpheniramine suppresses the histamine - mediated symptoms of allergic rhinitis , relieving sneezing , rhinorrhea , and itching of the eyes , nose , and throat .
INDICATIONS Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension is indicated for temporary relief of nasal congestion and cough associated with respiratory tract infections and related conditions such as sinusitis , pharyngitis , bronchitis and asthma when these conditions are complicated by tenacious mucus and / or mucous plugs and congestion .
Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension is effective in a productive as well as a nonproductive cough , but is of particular value in a dry nonproductive cough which tends to injure the mucous membrane of the air passages .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to chlorpheniramine , dextromethorphan , or with hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to sympathomimetic amines which may be manifested by insomnia , dizziness , weakness , tremor or arrhythmias .
Sympathomimetic amines are contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension , severe coronary artery disease , and patients that are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for two weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
This product is contraindicated in woman who are pregnant or nursing .
WARNINGS Do not take this product for persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema , or where cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) unless directed by a doctor .
Sympathomimetic amines should be used with caution in patients with hypertension , ischemic heart disease , diabetes mellitus , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Sympathomimetics may produce central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension .
Nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness may occur at higher doses .
Hypertensive crises can occur with concurrent use of pseudoephedrine and MAOI , indomethacin , or with beta blockers and methyldopa .
If a hypertensive crisis occurs , these drugs should be discontinued immediately and therapy to lower blood pressure should be instituted .
Fever should be managed by means of external cooling .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
PRECAUTIONS General : Before prescribing medication to suppress or modify cough , it is important that the underlying cause of cough is identified , that modification of cough does not increase the risk of clinical or physiologic complications , and that appropriate therapy for the primary disease is instituted .
Check with physician if cough persists after medication has been used for seven days or if high fever , skin rash , or continued headache , or sore throat is present with cough .
Caution should be exercised in patients with high blood pressure , heart disease , diabetes mellitus , or thyroid disease .
Dextromethorphan should be used with caution in sedated or debilitated patients , and in patients confined to the supine position .
Administration of dextromethorphan may be accompanied by histamine release and should be used with caution in atopic children .
The antihistamine in Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension may exhibit additive effects with CNS depressants , including alcohol .
Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 25 . 25 mg .
per 5 mL .
Information for Patients : Patient consultation should include the following information regarding proper use of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension : • Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension may be taken with food to minimize gastric irritation .
• Do not take MAOI while taking Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension .
• Keep all medications out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a poison control center immediately .
• Antihistamines may impair mental and physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
Drug Interactions : • MAOI and tricyclic antidepressants may prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
• Beta - adrenergic blockers and MAOI may potentiate the pressor effect of pseudoephedrine .
• Concurrent use of digitalis glycosides may increase the possibility of cardiac arrhythmias .
• Sympathomimetics may reduce the hypotensive effects of guanethidine , mecamylamine , methyldopa , reserpine and veratrum alkaloids .
• Concurrent use of tricyclic antidepressants may antagonize the effects of pseudoephedrine .
• Concomitant use of antihistamines with alcohol , tricyclic antidepressants , barbiturates and other CNS depressants may have an additive effect .
Laboratory Test Interactions : The in vitro addition of pseudoephedrine to sera containing the cardiac isoenzyme MB of serum creatine phosphokinase progressively inhibits the activity of the enzyme .
The inhibition becomes complete over six hours .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No data is available on the long - term potential of the components of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility in animals or humans .
Pregnancy : Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension .
It is also not known if Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nursing Mothers : Pseudoephedrine is excreted in breast milk .
Use of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension by nursing mothers is not recommended because of the higher - than - usual risk for infants from sympathomimetic amines .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension in pediatric patients under the age of two years have not been established .
Pseudoephedrine may be more likely to cause side effects in infants , especially newborn and premature infants , than in older children and adults .
No age specific problems related to dextromethorphan or chlorpheniramine have been documented in the pediatric population to date .
Demonstrate safe use of a short - acting sympathomimetic amine before use of a sustained - action formulation in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : ( Ages 65 and older ) Geriatric patients taking sympathomimetics may be more likely to experience confusion , hallucinations , seizures , and central nervous system depression .
Geriatric patients may also be more sensitive to the effects , especially to the vasopressor effects , of sympathomimetic amines .
Demonstrate safe use of a short - acting sympathomimetic formulation before use of a sustained - action formulation in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Pseudoephedrine may cause mild central nervous system stimulation , especially in those patients who are hypersensitive to sympathomimetic drugs .
Nervousness , excitability , restlessness , dizziness , weakness and insomnia may also occur .
Headache and drowsiness have also been reported .
Large doses may cause lightheadedness , nausea and / or vomiting .
Sympathomimetics have been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear , anxiety , nervousness , restlessness , tremor , weakness , pallor , respiratory difficulty , dysuria , insomnia , hallucinations , convulsions , CNS depression , arrhythmias , and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension .
Adverse effects associated with dextromethorphan are generally infrequent and mild .
Products containing dextromethorphan have been associated with nausea , dizziness , fatigue , gastrointestinal disturbances , and skin eruptions .
Chlorpheniramine may cause slight to moderate drowsiness and is the most frequent side effect .
Other possible side effects of antihistamines include : General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose and throat ; Cardiovascular : Hypotension , headache , palpitation , tachycardia , extra systoles ; Hematological : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis ; CNS : Sedation , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , hysteria , neuritis , convulsion ; Gastrointestinal : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation ; Genitourinary : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses ; Respiratory : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest , wheezing and nasal stuffiness .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Pseudoephedrine , like other CNS stimulants , has been abused .
At high doses , subjects commonly experience an elevation of mood , a sense of increased energy and alertness , and decreased appetite .
Some individuals become anxious , irritable , and loquacious .
In addition to the marked euphoria , the user experiences a sense of markedly enhanced physical strength and mental capacity .
With continued use , tolerance develops , the user increases the dose and toxic signs and symptoms appear .
Depression may follow rapid withdrawal .
Narcotic antitussives and stimulants , such as pseudoephedrine , are banned and tested for by the U . S . Olympic Committee ( USOC ) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) .
OVERDOSAGE : Overdosage with pseudoephedrine may manifest itself as excessive CNS stimulation resulting in excitement , tremor , restlessness and insomnia .
Other effects may include tachycardia , hypertension , pallor , mydriasis , hyperglycemia and urinary retention .
Severe overdosage may cause tachypnea or hyperpnea , hallucinations , convulsions or delirium , but in some individuals there may be CNS depression with somnolence , stupor or respiratory depression .
Arrhythmias ( including ventricular fibrillation ) may lead to hypotension and circulatory collapse .
Severe hypokalemia can occur , probably due to a compartmental shift rather than a depletion of potassium .
No organ damage or significant metabolic derangement is associated with pseudoephedrine overdosage .
Overdose with dextromethorphan include CNS effects as most prevalent , such as psychosis , hallucinations , mania , seizures , ataxia , dizziness , and psychological dependence .
Urinary retention and tachycardia have also been reported .
Very high doses may lead to respiratory depression coma / unconsciousness , and cyanosis . Manifestations of antihistamine overdosage may vary from CNS depression ( sedation , apnea , cardiovascular collapse ) to stimulation ( insomnia , hallucinations , tremors or convulsions ) .
Other signs and symptoms may be dizziness , tinnitus , ataxia , blurred vision , and hypotension .
Stimulation is particularly likely in children , as are atropine - like signs and symptoms ( dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; hyperthermia and gastrointestinal symptoms ) .
Treatment : In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started immediately .
Since the action of long - acting products may continue for as long as 18 hours , treatment of overdosage should be directed toward reducing further absorption and supporting the patient for at least that length of time .
Gastric emptying ( Syrup of Ipecac ) and / or lavage is recommended as soon as possible after ingestion , even if the patient has vomited spontaneously .
Either isotonic or half - isotonic saline may be used for lavage .
Administration of an activated charcoal slurry is beneficial after lavage and / or emesis if less than four hours have passed since ingestion .
Saline cathartics , such as Milk of Magnesia , are useful for hastening the evacuation of unreleased medication .
Adrenergic receptor blocking agents are antidotes to pseudoephedrine .
In practice , the most useful is the beta - blocker propanolol , which is indicated when there are signs of cardiac toxicity .
In severe cases of overdosage , it is essential to monitor both the heart ( by electrocardiograph ) and plasma electrolytes , and to give intravenous potassium as indicated .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
Excessive CNS stimulation may be counteracted with parenteral diazepam .
Stimulants should not be used .
Hyperpyrexia , especially in children , may require treatment with tepid water sponge baths or a hyperthermic blanket .
Apnea is treated with ventilatory support .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults and children over age 12 : 1 – 2 teaspoonsful every 12 hours .
Children ages 6 to 12 : 1 / 2 – 1 teaspoonful every 12 hours .
Children ages 2 to 6 : 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 12 hours .
Children under age 2 : As directed by a physician .
Shake well before use .
Note : The hydrobromide salt of dextromethorphan , the hydrochloride salt of pseudoephedrine , and the maleate salt of chlorpheniramine are provided in a tannate suspension by means of the TCT manufacturing process .
This yields a corresponding 60 mg of dextromethorphan tannate , 60 mg of pseudoephedrine tannate , and 8 mg of chlorpheniramine tannate .
HOW SUPPLIED : Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension is a grape bubblegum flavored suspension .
Available in 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) NDC 59702 - 800 - 16 and 1 / 2 fl .
oz .
( 15 mL ) NDC 59702 - 800 - 15 .
Storage : Dispense in a well closed , light - resistant container .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) .
WARNINGS : KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Manufactured for : Atley Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ashland , VA 23005 U . S . Patent ' s # 6 , 869 , 618 # 7 , 094 , 429 PIN 400425 ISS .
10 / 09 Rx Only © 2007 Atley Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All Rights Reserved REPRESENTATIVE PACKAGING See How Supplied section for a complete list of available packages of Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension NDC 59702 - 800 - 16 Atuss ® DS Tannate Suspension Each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoon ) contains : Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Pseudoephedrine HCI 30 mg Chlorpheniramine Maleate 4 mg SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING ATLEY Rx Only 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) USUAL DOSAGE : Adults and children over age 12 : 1 - 2 teaspoonsful every 12 hours .
Children ages 6 to 12 : 1 / 2 - 1 teaspoonful every 12 hours .
Children ages 2 to 6 : 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 12 hours .
Children under age 2 : As directed by a physician .
See attached insert for full prescribing information .
Pharmacist : Dispense in a well closed , light - resistant container .
WARNING : Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP ) PSL053816 400425 80311010 , R . 0 80311177 Mfg . for : Atley Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ashland , VA 23005 Utilizing : Tannate Conversion Technology [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
