DESCRIPTION Ciferex is an orally administered prescription Vitamin for the dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels , Vitamin D supplementation due to Vitamin D deficiency and other nutritional supplementation .
Ciferex should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) is a white , crystalline powder , very soluble in water , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule contains : Folic Acid : 1 mg , Vitamin D3 ( Cholecalciferol ) : 3775 IU Each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : Gelatin , cellulose , magnesium stearate , silica , FD & C Red # 3 , FD & C Yellow # 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciferex is indicated for dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels , Vitamin D deficiency or are in need of Vitamin D supplementation and other nutritional supplementation .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in vivo synthesis of the major biologically active metabolites of vitamin D occurs in two steps .
The first hydroxylation of ergocalciferol takes place in the liver ( to 25 - hydroxyvitamin D ) and the second in the kidneys ( to 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D ) .
Vitamin D metabolites promote the active absorption of calcium and phosphorus by the small intestine , thus elevating serum calcium and phosphate levels sufficiently to permit bone mineralization .
Vitamin D metabolites also mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone and probably increase the reabsorption of calcium and perhaps also of phosphate by the renal tubules .
There is a time lag of 10 to 24 hours between the administration of vitamin D and the initiation of its action in the body due to the necessity of synthesis of the active metabolites in the liver and kidneys .
Parathyroid hormone is responsible for the regulation of this metabolism in the kidneys .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Ciferex is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia , malabsorption syndrome , abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D , and hypervitaminosis D . WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tell your doctor if you have : kidney problems , thyroid disease .
This medication should be used as directed during pregnancy or while breast - feeding .
Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Folic acid in doses above 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
ADVERSE REACTIONS This medication is generally well tolerated .
Notify your doctor if you experience : nausea , loss of appetite , vomiting , stomach cramps , dry mouth , increased thirst , increased urination , muscle or bone pain , headache , weakness , weight loss , dizziness .
If you notice other effects not listed above , contact your doctor or pharmacist .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one capsule daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Ciferex capsules are supplied as orange capsules printed with Ciferex dispensed in HDPE plastic bottles of 30 ct .
STORAGE AND HANDLING SECTION Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Keep in cool dry place .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
OTHER SAFETY INFORMATION Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
Manufactured for : Adler - Stern Pharmaceuticals , LLC Tampa , FL 33629 Rev . 10 / 14 - 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
