CVSHealth Children ' s Allergy Relief Pops Active Ingredients Chlorpheniramine Maleate 2 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves the following symptoms associated with upper respiratory allergies : • sneezing • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use to make a child sleepy Consult a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis , glaucoma , trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland .
Consult a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • Excitability may occur , especially in children • Drowsiness may occur • Avoid alcoholic beverages • Alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • Use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over • 2 pops every 4 to 6 hours • Do not exceed 12 pops in a 24 hour period • Children 6 to 12 years of age : 1 pop every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 pops in a 24 hour period • Children under 6 years of age , consult a doctor .
Other information 15 calories per pop Inactive ingredients Corn Syrup , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , Malic Acid , Natural Flavors , Pectin , Sucrose and Water , Soybean oil used as processing aid .
Questions ?
Or to report an adverse event call 1 - 800 - 245 - 2898 .
Monday through Friday , 9 AM - 4 PM EST .
Package Label CVSHealth Children ' s Allergy Relief Pops Grape Flavor Made with natural flavors 15 POPS PACKAGE IS SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION .
DO NOT USE IF PACKAGE SEAL IS BROKEN .
Not a candy .
For use under adult supervision .
DISTRIBUTED BY : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One Cvs Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 2014 CVS / Pharmacy CVS . com 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in the USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
