1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Invert the unit dose vial a few times to obtain a uniform , white , opaque emulsion before using .
Instill one drop of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % twice a day in each eye approximately 12 hours apart .
Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % can be used concomitantly with lubricant eye drops , allowing a 15 - minute interval between products .
Discard vial immediately after use .
Instill one drop of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % twice a day in each eye approximately 12 hours apart .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic emulsion containing cyclosporine 0 . 5 mg / mL Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion 0 . 5 mg / mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation .
• Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • To avoid the potential for eye injury and contamination , be careful not to touch the vial tip to your eye or other surfaces .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination Be careful not to touch the vial tip to your eye or other surfaces to avoid potential for eye injury and contamination .
5 . 2 Use with Contact Lenses Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Patients with decreased tear production typically should not wear contact lenses .
If contact lenses are worn , they should be removed prior to the administration of the emulsion .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Potential for Eye Injury and Contamination [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] The most common adverse reaction following the use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % was ocular burning ( 17 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , the most common adverse reaction following the use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % was ocular burning ( 17 % ) .
Other reactions reported in 1 % to 5 % of patients included conjunctival hyperemia , discharge , epiphora , eye pain , foreign body sensation , pruritus , stinging , and visual disturbance ( most often blurring ) .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Reported reactions have included : hypersensitivity ( including eye swelling , urticaria , rare cases of severe angioedema , face swelling , tongue swelling , pharyngeal edema , and dyspnea ) ; and superficial injury of the eye ( from the vial tip touching the eye during administration ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Clinical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is not detected systemically following topical ocular administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
Oral administration of cyclosporine to pregnant rats or rabbits did not produce teratogenicity at clinically relevant doses [ seeData ] .
Data Animal Data At maternally toxic doses ( 30 mg / kg / day in rats and 100 mg / kg / day in rabbits ) , cyclosporine oral solution ( USP ) was teratogenic as indicated by increased pre - and postnatal mortality , reduced fetal weight and skeletal retardations .
These doses ( normalized to body surface area ) are 5 , 000 and 32 , 000 times greater , respectively , than the daily recommended human dose of one drop ( approximately 28 mcL ) of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % twice daily into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
No evidence of embryofetal toxicity was observed in rats or rabbits receiving cyclosporine during organogenesis at oral doses up to 17 mg / kg / day or 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in rats and rabbits are approximately 3 , 000 and 10 , 000 times greater , respectively , than the daily recommended human dose .
An oral dose of 45 mg / kg / day cyclosporine administered to rats from Day 15 of pregnancy until Day 21 postpartum produced maternal toxicity and an increase in postnatal mortality in offspring .
This dose is 7 , 000 times greater than the daily recommended human dose .
No adverse effects in dams or offspring were observed at oral doses up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 000 times greater than the daily recommended human dose ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Cyclosporine is known to appear in human milk following systemic administration , but its presence in human milk following topical treatment has not been investigated .
Although blood concentrations are undetectable following topical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , caution should be exercised when cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is administered to a nursing woman .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from cyclosporine .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 16 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall difference in safety or effectiveness has been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % contains a topical calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant with anti - inflammatory effects .
Cyclosporine ’ s chemical name is Cyclo [ [ E - ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 R ) - 3 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 6 - octenoyl ] - L - 2 - aminobutyryl - N - methylglycyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - valyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - alanyl - D - alanyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - valyl ] and it has the following structure : Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Formula : C62H111N11O12 Mol .
Wt . : 1202 . 6 Cyclosporine is a fine white powder .
Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % appears as a white opaque to slightly translucent homogeneous emulsion .
It has an osmolality of 230 to 320 mOsmol / kg and a pH of 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 .
Each mL of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion contains : Active : cyclosporine 0 . 05 % .
Inactives : glycerin ; castor oil ; polysorbate 80 ; carbomer copolymer type A ; purified water ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cyclosporine is an immunosuppressive agent when administered systemically .
In patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca , cyclosporine emulsion is thought to act as a partial immunomodulator .
The exact mechanism of action is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Blood cyclosporine A concentrations were measured using a specific high pressure liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry assay .
Blood concentrations of cyclosporine , in all the samples collected , after topical administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % , twice daily , in humans for up to 12 months , were below the quantitation limit of 0 . 1 ng / mL .
There was no detectable drug accumulation in blood during 12 months of treatment with cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Systemic carcinogenicity studies were conducted in male and female mice and rats .
In the 78 - week oral ( diet ) mouse study , at doses of 1 , 4 , and 16 mg / kg / day , evidence of a statistically significant trend was found for lymphocytic lymphomas in females , and the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in mid - dose males significantly exceeded the control value .
In the 24 - month oral ( diet ) rat study , conducted at 0 . 5 , 2 , and 8 mg / kg / day , pancreatic islet cell adenomas significantly exceeded the control rate in the low dose level .
The hepatocellular carcinomas and pancreatic islet cell adenomas were not dose related .
The low doses in mice and rats are approximately 80 times greater ( normalized to body surface area ) than the daily recommended human dose of one drop ( approximately 28 mcL ) of 0 . 05 % cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion twice daily into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
Mutagenesis Cyclosporine has not been found to be mutagenic / genotoxic in the Ames Test , the V79 - HGPRT Test , the micronucleus test in mice and Chinese hamsters , the chromosome - aberration tests in Chinese hamster bone - marrow , the mouse dominant lethal assay , and the DNA - repair test in sperm from treated mice .
A study analyzing sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) induction by cyclosporine using human lymphocytes in vitro gave indication of a positive effect ( i . e . , induction of SCE ) .
Impairment of Fertility No impairment in fertility was demonstrated in studies in male and female rats receiving oral doses of cyclosporine up to 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 , 000 times the human daily dose of 0 . 001 mg / kg / day normalized to body surface area ) for 9 weeks ( male ) and 2 weeks ( female ) prior to mating .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Four multicenter , randomized , adequate and well - controlled clinical studies were performed in approximately 1 , 200 patients with moderate to severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % demonstrated statistically significant increases in Schirmer wetting of 10 mm versus vehicle at six months in patients whose tear production was presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation .
This effect was seen in approximately 15 % of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % - treated patients versus approximately 5 % of vehicle - treated patients .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
No increase in bacterial or fungal ocular infections was reported following administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % is packaged in sterile , preservative - free single - use vials .
Each vial contains 0 . 4 mL fill in a 0 . 9 mL LDPE vial ; 30 or 60 vials are packaged in a polypropylene tray with an aluminum peelable lid .
The entire contents of each tray ( 30 vials or 60 vials ) must be dispensed intact .
30 Vials 0 . 4 mL each - NDC 68180 - 214 - 30 60 Vials 0 . 4 mL each - NDC 68180 - 214 - 60 Storage : Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Handling the Container Advise patients to not allow the tip of the vial to touch the eye or any surface , as this may contaminate the emulsion .
Advise patients to not touch the vial tip to their eye to avoid the potential for injury to the eye [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use with Contact Lenses Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Patients with decreased tear production typically should not wear contact lenses .
Advise patients that if contact lenses are worn , they should be removed prior to the administration of the emulsion .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration of cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion , 0 . 05 % [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Advise patients that the emulsion from one individual single - use vial is to be used immediately after opening for administration to one or both eyes , and the remaining contents should be discarded immediately after administration .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals INC .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Allergan Sales , LLC , Waco , TX 76712 USA © 2019 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Patented .
See www . allergan . com / patents v1 . 0USPI0214AG PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68180 - 214 - 30 Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion 0 . 05 % Preservative - Free Sterile 30 Single - Use Vials ( 0 . 4 mL each ) LUPIN Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68180 - 214 - 60 Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion 0 . 05 % Preservative - Free Sterile 60 Single - Use Vials ( 0 . 4 mL each ) LUPIN Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
