Warnings and Precautions , Nephrotic Range Proteinuria ( 5 . 8 ) 01 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OFEV is a kinase inhibitor indicated in adults for : • Treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) .
( 1 . 1 ) • Treatment of chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases ( ILDs ) with a progressive phenotype ( 1 . 2 ) • Slowing the rate of decline in pulmonary function in patients with systemic sclerosis - associated interstitial lung disease ( SSc - ILD ) ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis OFEV is indicated for the treatment of adults with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) .
1 . 2 Chronic Fibrosing Interstitial Lung Diseases with a Progressive Phenotype OFEV is indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic fibrosing interstitial lung diseases ( ILDs ) with a progressive phenotype [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Systemic Sclerosis - Associated Interstitial Lung Disease OFEV is indicated to slow the rate of decline in pulmonary function in adult patients with systemic sclerosis - associated interstitial lung disease ( SSc - ILD ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage : 150 mg taken orally twice daily approximately 12 hours apart taken with food .
( 2 . 2 ) • Recommended dosage in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) : 100 mg taken orally twice daily approximately 12 hours apart taken with food .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) • Consider temporary dose reduction to 100 mg , treatment interruption , or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 6 ) • Prior to treatment initiation , conduct liver function tests in all patients and a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Testing Prior to OFEV Administration Conduct liver function tests in all patients and a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating treatment with OFEV [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of OFEV is 150 mg taken orally twice daily administered approximately 12 hours apart .
Administration Information OFEV capsules should be taken with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] and swallowed whole with liquid .
OFEV capsules should not be chewed because of a bitter taste .
OFEV capsules should not be opened or crushed .
If contact with the content of the capsule occurs , wash hands immediately and thoroughly .
The effect of chewing or crushing of the capsule on the pharmacokinetics of nintedanib is not known .
Information for Missed Dose If a dose of OFEV is missed , the next dose should be taken at the next scheduled time .
Advise the patient to not make up for a missed dose .
Do not exceed the recommended maximum daily dosage of 300 mg .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Mild Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) , the recommended dosage of OFEV is 100 mg orally twice daily approximately 12 hours apart taken with food [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Moderate or Severe Hepatic Impairment Treatment with OFEV is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Modification due to Adverse Reactions In addition to symptomatic treatment , if applicable , the management of adverse reactions of OFEV may require dose reduction or temporary interruption until the specific adverse reaction resolves to levels that allow continuation of therapy .
OFEV treatment may be resumed at the full dosage ( 150 mg twice daily ) , or at the reduced dosage ( 100 mg twice daily ) , which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage .
If a patient does not tolerate 100 mg twice daily , discontinue treatment with OFEV [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Elevated Liver Enzymes Dose modifications or interruptions may be necessary for liver enzyme elevations .
Conduct liver function tests ( aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , and bilirubin ) prior to initiation of treatment with OFEV , at regular intervals during the first three months of treatment , and periodically thereafter or as clinically indicated .
Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury , including fatigue , anorexia , right upper abdominal discomfort , dark urine or jaundice .
Discontinue OFEV in patients with AST or ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) with signs or symptoms of liver injury and for AST or ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal .
For AST or ALT greater than 3 times to less than 5 times the ULN without signs of liver damage , interrupt treatment or reduce OFEV to 100 mg twice daily .
Once liver enzymes have returned to baseline values , treatment with OFEV may be reintroduced at a reduced dosage ( 100 mg twice daily ) , which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage ( 150 mg twice daily ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) , consider treatment interruption , or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : • 150 mg , brown , opaque , oblong , soft capsules imprinted in black with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and " 150 " .
• 100 mg , peach , opaque , oblong , soft capsules imprinted in black with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and " 100 " .
Capsules : 150 mg and 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatic impairment : OFEV is not recommended for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) , the recommended dosage is 100 mg twice daily approximately 12 hours apart taken with food .
Consider treatment interruption , or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions in these patients .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) • Elevated liver enzymes and drug - induced liver injury : ALT , AST , and bilirubin elevations have occurred with OFEV , including cases of drug - induced liver injury .
In the postmarketing period , non - serious and serious cases of drug - induced liver injury , including severe liver injury with fatal outcome , have been reported .
The majority of hepatic events occur within the first three months of treatment .
Liver enzyme and bilirubin increases were reversible with dose modification or interruption in the majority of cases .
Monitor ALT , AST , and bilirubin prior to initiation of treatment , at regular intervals during the first three months of treatment , and periodically thereafter or as clinically indicated .
Temporary dosage reductions or discontinuations may be required .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Gastrointestinal disorders : Diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting have occurred with OFEV .
Treat patients at first signs with adequate hydration and antidiarrheal medicine ( e . g . , loperamide ) or anti - emetics .
Discontinue OFEV if severe diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting persists despite symptomatic treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use highly effective contraception .
Advise women taking oral hormonal contraceptives experiencing vomiting , diarrhea , or other conditions where the drug absorption may be reduced to use alternative highly effective contraception .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Arterial thromboembolic events have been reported .
Use caution when treating patients at higher cardiovascular risk including known coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 5 ) • Bleeding events have been reported .
Use OFEV in patients with known bleeding risk only if anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk .
( 5 . 6 ) • Gastrointestinal perforation has been reported .
Use OFEV with caution when treating patients with recent abdominal surgery , previous history of diverticular disease or receiving concomitant corticosteroids or NSAIDs .
Discontinue OFEV in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation .
Only use OFEV in patients with known risk of gastrointestinal perforation if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk .
( 5 . 7 ) • Nephrotic range proteinuria has been reported .
Consider treatment interruption in patients who develop new or worsening proteinuria .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Hepatic Impairment Treatment with OFEV is not recommended in patients with moderate ( Child Pugh B ) or severe ( Child Pugh C ) hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) can be treated with a reduced dose of OFEV [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Elevated Liver Enzymes and Drug - Induced Liver Injury Cases of drug - induced liver injury ( DILI ) have been observed with OFEV treatment .
In the clinical trials and postmarketing period , non - serious and serious cases of DILI were reported .
Cases of severe liver injury with fatal outcome have been reported in the postmarketing period .
The majority of hepatic events occur within the first three months of treatment .
In clinical trials , administration of OFEV was associated with elevations of liver enzymes ( ALT , AST , ALKP , GGT ) and bilirubin .
Liver enzyme and bilirubin increases were reversible with dose modification or interruption in the majority of cases .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , the majority ( 94 % ) of patients with ALT and / or AST elevations had elevations less than 5 times ULN and the majority ( 95 % ) of patients with bilirubin elevations had elevations less than 2 times ULN .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , the majority ( 95 % ) of patients with ALT and / or AST elevations had elevations less than 5 times ULN and the majority ( 94 % ) of patients with bilirubin elevations had elevations less than 2 times ULN .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , a maximum ALT and / or AST greater than or equal to 3 times ULN was observed for 4 . 9 % of patients in the OFEV group and for 0 . 7 % of patients in the placebo group [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with a low body weight ( less than 65 kg ) , Asian , and female patients may have a higher risk of elevations in liver enzymes .
Nintedanib exposure increased with patient age , which may also result in a higher risk of increased liver enzymes [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Conduct liver function tests ( ALT , AST , and bilirubin ) prior to initiation of treatment with OFEV , at regular intervals during the first three months of treatment , and periodically thereafter or as clinically indicated .
Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury , including fatigue , anorexia , right upper abdominal discomfort , dark urine or jaundice .
Dosage modifications or interruption may be necessary for liver enzyme elevations [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea In clinical trials , diarrhea was the most frequent gastrointestinal event reported .
In most patients , the event was of mild to moderate intensity and occurred within the first 3 months of treatment .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , diarrhea was reported in 62 % versus 18 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Diarrhea led to permanent dose reduction in 11 % of patients treated with OFEV compared to 0 placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of OFEV in 5 % of the patients compared to less than 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , diarrhea was reported in 67 % versus 24 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Diarrhea led to permanent dose reduction in 16 % of patients treated with OFEV compared to less than 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of OFEV in 6 % of the patients compared to less than 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , diarrhea was reported in 76 % versus 32 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Diarrhea led to permanent dose reduction in 22 % of patients treated with OFEV compared to 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of OFEV in 7 % of the patients compared to 0 . 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
Dosage modifications or treatment interruptions may be necessary in patients with adverse reactions of diarrhea .
Treat diarrhea at first signs with adequate hydration and antidiarrheal medication ( e . g . , loperamide ) , and consider dose reduction or treatment interruption if diarrhea continues [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
OFEV treatment may be resumed at the full dosage ( 150 mg twice daily ) , or at the reduced dosage ( 100 mg twice daily ) , which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage .
If severe diarrhea persists despite symptomatic treatment , discontinue treatment with OFEV .
Nausea and Vomiting In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , nausea was reported in 24 % versus 7 % and vomiting was reported in 12 % versus 3 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , nausea was reported in 29 % versus 9 % and vomiting was reported in 18 % versus 5 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , nausea was reported in 32 % versus 14 % and vomiting was reported in 25 % versus 10 % of patients treated with OFEV and placebo , respectively [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In most patients , these events were of mild to moderate intensity .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , nausea led to discontinuation of OFEV in 2 % of patients and vomiting led to discontinuation of OFEV in 1 % of the patients .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , nausea led to discontinuation of OFEV in less than 1 % of patients and vomiting led to discontinuation of OFEV in 1 % of the patients .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , nausea led to discontinuation of OFEV in 2 % of patients and vomiting led to discontinuation of OFEV in 1 % of the patients .
For nausea or vomiting that persists despite appropriate supportive care including anti - emetic therapy , dose reduction or treatment interruption may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
OFEV treatment may be resumed at the full dosage ( 150 mg twice daily ) , or at the reduced dosage ( 100 mg twice daily ) , which subsequently may be increased to the full dosage .
If severe nausea or vomiting does not resolve , discontinue treatment with OFEV .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , OFEV can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nintedanib caused embryo - fetal deaths and structural abnormalities in rats and rabbits when administered during organogenesis at less than ( rats ) and approximately 5 times ( rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in adults .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving treatment with OFEV and to use highly effective contraception at initiation of , during treatment , and at least 3 months after the last dose of OFEV .
Nintedanib does not change the exposure to oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel in patients with SSc - ILD .
However , the efficacy of oral hormonal contraceptives may be compromised by vomiting and / or diarrhea or other conditions where the drug absorption may be reduced .
Advise women taking oral hormonal contraceptives experiencing these conditions to use alternative highly effective contraception .
Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment with OFEV and during treatment as appropriate [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Arterial Thromboembolic Events Arterial thromboembolic events have been reported in patients taking OFEV .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , arterial thromboembolic events were reported in 2 . 5 % of patients treated with OFEV and less than 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
Myocardial infarction was the most common adverse reaction under arterial thromboembolic events , occurring in 1 . 5 % of OFEV - treated patients compared to less than 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , arterial thromboembolic events were reported in less than 1 % of patients in both treatment arms .
Myocardial infarction was observed in less than 1 % of patients in both treatment arms .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , arterial thromboembolic events were reported in 0 . 7 % of patients in both treatment arms .
There were 0 cases of myocardial infarction in OFEV - treated patients compared to 0 . 7 % of placebo - treated patients .
Use caution when treating patients at higher cardiovascular risk including known coronary artery disease .
Consider treatment interruption in patients who develop signs or symptoms of acute myocardial ischemia .
5 . 6 Risk of Bleeding Based on the mechanism of action ( VEGFR inhibition ) , OFEV may increase the risk of bleeding .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , bleeding events were reported in 10 % of patients treated with OFEV and in 7 % of patients treated with placebo .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , bleeding events were reported in 11 % of patients treated with OFEV and in 13 % of patients treated with placebo .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , bleeding events were reported in 11 % of patients treated with OFEV and in 8 % of patients treated with placebo .
In clinical trials , epistaxis was the most frequent bleeding event reported .
In the postmarketing period non - serious and serious bleeding events , some of which were fatal , have been observed .
Use OFEV in patients with known risk of bleeding only if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk .
5 . 7 Gastrointestinal Perforation Based on the mechanism of action , OFEV may increase the risk of gastrointestinal perforation .
In IPF studies ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , gastrointestinal perforation was reported in less than 1 % of patients treated with OFEV , compared to 0 cases in the placebo - treated patients .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype study ( Study 5 ) , gastrointestinal perforation was not reported in any patients in any treatment arm .
In the SSc - ILD study ( Study 4 ) , no cases of gastrointestinal perforation were reported in patients treated with OFEV or in placebo - treated patients .
In the postmarketing period , cases of gastrointestinal perforations have been reported , some of which were fatal .
Use caution when treating patients who have had recent abdominal surgery , previous history of diverticular disease or receiving concomitant corticosteroids or NSAIDs .
Discontinue therapy with OFEV in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation .
Only use OFEV in patients with known risk of gastrointestinal perforation if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk .
5 . 8 Nephrotic Range Proteinuria Cases of proteinuria within the nephrotic range have been reported in the postmarketing period .
Histological findings , when available , were consistent with glomerular microangiopathy with or without renal thrombi .
Improvement in proteinuria has been observed after OFEV was discontinued ; however , in some cases , residual proteinuria persisted .
Consider treatment interruption in patients who develop new or worsening proteinuria .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Elevated Liver Enzymes and Drug - Induced Liver Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Arterial Thromboembolic Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Risk of Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Gastrointestinal Perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Nephrotic Range Proteinuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are : diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain , vomiting , liver enzyme elevation , decreased appetite , headache , weight decreased , and hypertension .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at ( 800 ) 542 - 6257 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of OFEV was evaluated in over 1000 IPF patients , 332 patients with chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype , and over 280 patients with SSc - ILD .
Over 200 IPF patients were exposed to OFEV for more than 2 years in clinical trials .
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis OFEV was studied in three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , 52 - week trials .
In the phase 2 ( Study 1 ) and phase 3 ( Study 2 and Study 3 ) trials , 723 patients with IPF received OFEV 150 mg twice daily and 508 patients received placebo .
The median duration of exposure was 10 months for patients treated with OFEV and 11 months for patients treated with placebo .
Subjects ranged in age from 42 to 89 years ( median age of 67 years ) .
Most patients were male ( 79 % ) and Caucasian ( 60 % ) .
The most frequent serious adverse reactions reported in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo , were bronchitis ( 1 . 2 % vs . 0 . 8 % ) and myocardial infarction ( 1 . 5 % vs . 0 . 4 % ) .
The most common adverse events leading to death in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo , were pneumonia ( 0 . 7 % vs . 0 . 6 % ) , lung neoplasm malignant ( 0 . 3 % vs . 0 % ) , and myocardial infarction ( 0 . 3 % vs . 0 . 2 % ) .
In the predefined category of major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) including MI , fatal events were reported in 0 . 6 % of OFEV - treated patients and 1 . 8 % of placebo - treated patients .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent dose reductions were reported in 16 % of OFEV - treated patients and 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reaction that led to permanent dose reduction in the patients treated with OFEV was diarrhea ( 11 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were reported in 21 % of OFEV - treated patients and 15 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reactions that led to discontinuation in OFEV - treated patients were diarrhea ( 5 % ) , nausea ( 2 % ) , and decreased appetite ( 2 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % and more frequent in the OFEV than placebo treatment group are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of OFEV - treated Patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and More Commonly Than Placebo in Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 Adverse Reaction OFEV , 150 mg n = 723 Placebo n = 508 a Includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , abdominal pain lower , gastrointestinal pain and abdominal tenderness .
b Includes gamma - glutamyltransferase increased , hepatic enzyme increased , alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , hepatic function abnormal , liver function test abnormal , transaminase increased , blood alkaline phosphatase - increased , alanine aminotransferase abnormal , aspartate aminotransferase abnormal , and gamma - glutamyltransferase abnormal .
c Includes hypertension , blood pressure increased , hypertensive crisis , and hypertensive cardiomyopathy .
Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 62 % 18 % Nausea 24 % 7 % Abdominal paina 15 % 6 % Vomiting 12 % 3 % Hepatobiliary disorders Liver enzyme elevationb 14 % 3 % Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 11 % 5 % Nervous system disorders Headache 8 % 5 % Investigations Weight decreased 10 % 3 % Vascular disorders Hypertensionc 5 % 4 % In addition , hypothyroidism was reported in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo ( 1 . 1 % vs . 0 . 6 % ) .
Alopecia was also reported in more patients treated with OFEV than placebo ( 0 . 8 % vs . 0 . 4 % ) .
Combination with Pirfenidone Concomitant treatment with nintedanib and pirfenidone was investigated in an exploratory open - label , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) trial of nintedanib 150 mg twice daily with add - on pirfenidone ( titrated to 801 mg three times a day ) compared to nintedanib 150 mg twice daily alone in 105 randomized patients for 12 weeks .
The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients with gastrointestinal adverse events from baseline to Week 12 .
Gastrointestinal adverse events were in line with the established safety profile of each component and were experienced in 37 ( 70 % ) patients treated with pirfenidone added to nintedanib versus 27 ( 53 % ) patients treated with nintedanib alone .
Diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain ( includes upper abdominal pain , abdominal discomfort , and abdominal pain ) were the most frequent adverse events reported in 20 ( 38 % ) versus 16 ( 31 % ) , in 22 ( 42 % ) versus 6 ( 12 % ) , in 15 ( 28 % ) versus 6 ( 12 % ) , and in 15 ( 28 % ) versus 7 ( 14 % ) patients treated with pirfenidone added to nintedanib versus nintedanib alone , respectively .
More subjects reported AST or ALT elevations ( greater than or equal to 3 × the upper limit of normal ) when using pirfenidone in combination with nintedanib ( n = 3 ( 6 % ) ) compared to nintedanib alone ( n = 0 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Chronic Fibrosing Interstitial Lung Diseases with a Progressive Phenotype OFEV was studied in a phase 3 , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial ( Study 5 ) in which 663 patients with chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype were randomized to receive OFEV 150 mg twice daily ( n = 332 ) or placebo ( n = 331 ) for at least 52 weeks .
At 52 weeks , the median duration of exposure was 12 months for patients in both treatment arms .
Subjects ranged in age from 27 to 87 years ( median age of 67 years ) .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 74 % ) or Asian ( 25 % ) .
Most patients were male ( 54 % ) .
The most frequent serious adverse event reported in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo , was pneumonia ( 4 % vs . 3 % ) .
Adverse events leading to death were reported in 3 % of patients treated with OFEV and in 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
No pattern was identified in the adverse events leading to death .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent dose reductions were reported in 33 % of OFEV - treated patients and 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reaction that led to permanent dose reduction in the patients treated with OFEV was diarrhea ( 16 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were reported in 20 % of OFEV - treated patients and 10 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reaction that led to discontinuation in OFEV - treated patients was diarrhea ( 6 % ) .
The safety profile in patients with chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype treated with OFEV was consistent with that observed in IPF patients .
In addition , the following adverse events were reported in OFEV more than placebo in chronic progressive fibrosing ILD : nasopharyngitis ( 13 % vs . 12 % ) , upper respiratory tract infection ( 7 % vs 6 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 6 % vs . 4 % ) , fatigue ( 10 % vs . 6 % ) , and back pain ( 6 % vs . 5 % ) .
Systemic Sclerosis - Associated Interstitial Lung Disease OFEV was studied in a phase 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial ( Study 4 ) in which 576 patients with SSc - ILD received OFEV 150 mg twice daily ( n = 288 ) or placebo ( n = 288 ) .
Patients were to receive treatment for at least 52 weeks ; individual patients were treated for up to 100 weeks .
The median duration of exposure was 15 months for patients treated with OFEV and 16 months for patients treated with placebo .
Subjects ranged in age from 20 to 79 years ( median age of 55 years ) .
Most patients were female ( 75 % ) .
Patients were mostly Caucasian ( 67 % ) , Asian ( 25 % ) , or Black ( 6 % ) .
At baseline , 49 % of patients were on stable therapy with mycophenolate .
The most frequent serious adverse events reported in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo , were interstitial lung disease ( 2 . 4 % nintedanib vs . 1 . 7 % placebo ) and pneumonia ( 2 . 8 % nintedanib vs . 0 . 3 % placebo ) .
Within 52 weeks , 5 patients treated with OFEV ( 1 . 7 % ) and 4 patients treated with placebo ( 1 . 4 % ) died .
There was no pattern among adverse events leading to death in either treatment arm .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent dose reductions were reported in 34 % of OFEV - treated patients and 4 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reaction that led to permanent dose reduction in the patients treated with OFEV was diarrhea ( 22 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were reported in 16 % of OFEV - treated patients and 9 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reactions that led to discontinuation in OFEV - treated patients were diarrhea ( 7 % ) , nausea ( 2 % ) , vomiting ( 1 % ) , abdominal pain ( 1 % ) , and interstitial lung disease ( 1 % ) .
The safety profile in patients treated with OFEV with or without mycophenolate at baseline was comparable .
The most common adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % in OFEV - treated patients and more commonly than in placebo are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of OFEV - treated Patients with Systemic Sclerosis - Associated Interstitial Lung Disease and More Commonly Than Placebo in Study 4 Adverse Reaction OFEV , 150 mg n = 288 Placebo n = 288 a Includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , abdominal pain lower , and esophageal pain .
b Includes alanine aminotransferase increased , gamma - glutamyltransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , hepatic enzyme increased , blood alkaline phosphatase increased , transaminase increased , and hepatic function abnormal .
c Includes hypertension , blood pressure increased , and hypertensive crisis .
Diarrhea 76 % 32 % Nausea 32 % 14 % Vomiting 25 % 10 % Skin ulcer 18 % 17 % Abdominal paina 18 % 11 % Liver enzyme elevationb 13 % 3 % Weight decreased 12 % 4 % Fatigue 11 % 7 % Decreased appetite 9 % 4 % Headache 9 % 8 % Pyrexia 6 % 5 % Back pain 6 % 4 % Dizziness 6 % 4 % Hypertensionc 5 % 2 % In addition , alopecia was reported in patients treated with OFEV , more than placebo ( 1 . 4 % vs . 1 . 0 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of OFEV .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of OFEV : drug - induced liver injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , non - serious and serious bleeding events , some of which were fatal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] , proteinuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] , pancreatitis , thrombocytopenia , rash , pruritus .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Coadministration of P - gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase nintedanib exposure .
Monitor patients closely for tolerability of OFEV .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Nintedanib is a substrate of P - gp and , to a minor extent , CYP3A4 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Coadministration with oral doses of a P - gp and CYP3A4 inhibitor , ketoconazole , increased exposure to nintedanib by 60 % .
Concomitant use of P - gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , erythromycin ) with OFEV may increase exposure to nintedanib [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In such cases , patients should be monitored closely for tolerability of OFEV .
Management of adverse reactions may require interruption , dose reduction , or discontinuation of therapy with OFEV [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Coadministration with oral doses of a P - gp and CYP3A4 inducer , rifampicin , decreased exposure to nintedanib by 50 % .
Concomitant use of P - gp and CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , carbamazepine , phenytoin , and St . John ' s wort ) with OFEV should be avoided as these drugs may decrease exposure to nintedanib [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants Nintedanib is a VEGFR inhibitor and may increase the risk of bleeding .
Monitor patients on full anticoagulation therapy closely for bleeding and adjust anticoagulation treatment as necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 3 Pirfenidone In a multiple - dose study conducted to assess the pharmacokinetic effects of concomitant treatment with nintedanib and pirfenidone , the coadministration of nintedanib with pirfenidone did not alter the exposure of either agent [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , no dose adjustment is necessary during concomitant administration of nintedanib with pirfenidone .
7 . 4 Bosentan Coadministration of nintedanib with bosentan did not alter the pharmacokinetics of nintedanib [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended .
( 8 . 2 ) • Renal impairment : The safety and efficacy of OFEV have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment and end - stage renal disease .
( 8 . 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Smokers : Decreased exposure has been noted in smokers which may alter the efficacy profile of OFEV .
( 8 . 8 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , OFEV can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no data on the use of OFEV during pregnancy .
In animal studies of pregnant rats and rabbits treated during organogenesis , nintedanib caused embryo - fetal deaths and structural abnormalities at less than ( rats ) and approximately 5 times ( rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose [ see Data ] .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 15 % to 20 % .
Data Animal Data In animal reproduction toxicity studies , nintedanib caused embryo - fetal deaths and structural abnormalities in rats and rabbits at less than and approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in adults ( on a plasma AUC basis at maternal oral doses of 2 . 5 and 15 mg / kg / day in rats and rabbits , respectively ) .
Malformations included abnormalities in the vasculature , urogenital , and skeletal systems .
Vasculature anomalies included missing or additional major blood vessels .
Skeletal anomalies included abnormalities in the thoracic , lumbar , and caudal vertebrae ( e . g . , hemivertebra , missing , or asymmetrically ossified ) , ribs ( bifid or fused ) , and sternebrae ( fused , split , or unilaterally ossified ) .
In some fetuses , organs in the urogenital system were missing .
In rabbits , a significant change in sex ratio was observed in fetuses ( female : male ratio of approximately 71 % : 29 % ) at approximately 15 times the MRHD in adults ( on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 60 mg / kg / day ) .
Nintedanib decreased post - natal viability of rat pups during the first 4 post - natal days when dams were exposed to less than the MRHD ( on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 10 mg / kg / day ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of nintedanib in human milk , the effects on the breast - fed infant or the effects on milk production .
Nintedanib and / or its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats [ see Data ] .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from OFEV , advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with OFEV .
Data Milk and plasma of lactating rats have similar concentrations of nintedanib and its metabolites .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , OFEV can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and may reduce fertility in females of reproductive potential [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) , and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Counsel patients on pregnancy prevention and planning .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to treatment with OFEV and during treatment as appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception OFEV can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving treatment with OFEV .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception at initiation of , during treatment , and for at least 3 months after taking the last dose of OFEV .
Nintedanib does not change the exposure to oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel in patients with SSc - ILD .
However , the efficacy of oral hormonal contraceptives may be compromised by vomiting and / or diarrhea or other conditions where the drug absorption may be reduced .
Advise women taking oral hormonal contraceptives experiencing these conditions to use alternative highly effective contraception .
Infertility Based on animal data , OFEV may reduce fertility in females of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in phase 2 and 3 clinical studies of OFEV in IPF ( Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 ) , 61 % were 65 and over , while 16 % were 75 and over .
In the chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype clinical study ( Study 5 ) , 61 % were 65 and over , while 19 % were 75 and older .
In SSc - ILD ( Study 4 ) , 21 . 4 % were 65 and over , while 1 . 9 % were 75 and older .
In phase 3 studies , no overall differences in effectiveness were observed between subjects who were 65 and over and younger subjects ; no overall differences in safety were observed between subjects who were 65 and over or 75 and over and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Nintedanib is predominantly eliminated via biliary / fecal excretion ( greater than 90 % ) .
In a PK study performed in patients with hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A , Child Pugh B ) , exposure to nintedanib was increased [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) , the recommended dosage of OFEV is 100 mg twice daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for adverse reactions and consider treatment interruption , or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Treatment of patients with moderate ( Child Pugh B ) and severe ( Child Pugh C ) hepatic impairment with OFEV is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Based on a single - dose study , less than 1 % of the total dose of nintedanib is excreted via the kidney [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Adjustment of the starting dose in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment is not required .
The safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of nintedanib have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( less than 30 mL / min CrCl ) and end - stage renal disease .
8 . 8 Smokers Smoking was associated with decreased exposure to OFEV [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may alter the efficacy profile of OFEV .
Encourage patients to stop smoking prior to treatment with OFEV and to avoid smoking when using OFEV .
10 OVERDOSAGE In IPF trials , one patient was inadvertently exposed to a dose of 600 mg daily for a total of 21 days .
A non - serious adverse event ( nasopharyngitis ) occurred and resolved during the period of incorrect dosing , with no onset of other reported events .
Overdosage was also reported in two patients in oncology studies who were exposed to a maximum of 600 mg twice daily for up to 8 days .
Adverse events reported were consistent with the existing safety profile of OFEV .
Both patients recovered .
In case of overdosage , interrupt treatment and initiate general supportive measures as appropriate .
11 DESCRIPTION OFEV capsules contain nintedanib , a kinase inhibitor [ see Mechanism of Action ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Nintedanib is presented as the ethanesulfonate salt ( esylate ) , with the chemical name 1 H - Indole - 6 - carboxylic acid , 2 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - [ [ [ 4 - [ methyl [ ( 4 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ) acetyl ] amino ] phenyl ] amino ] phenylmethylene ] - 2 - oxo - , methyl ester , ( 3 Z ) - , ethanesulfonate ( 1 : 1 ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nintedanib esylate is a bright yellow powder with an empirical formula of C31H33N5O4 ∙ C2H6O3S and a molecular weight of 649 . 76 g / mol .
OFEV capsules for oral administration are available in 2 dose strengths containing 100 mg or 150 mg of nintedanib ( equivalent to 120 . 40 mg or 180 . 60 mg nintedanib ethanesulfonate , respectively ) .
The inactive ingredients of OFEV are the following : Fill Material : triglycerides , hard fat , lecithin .
Capsule Shell : gelatin , glycerol , titanium dioxide , red ferric oxide , yellow ferric oxide , black ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nintedanib is a small molecule that inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases ( RTKs ) and non - receptor tyrosine kinases ( nRTKs ) .
Nintedanib inhibits the following RTKs : platelet - derived growth factor receptor ( PDGFR ) α and β , fibroblast growth factor receptor ( FGFR ) 1 - 3 , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor ( VEGFR ) 1 - 3 , colony stimulating factor 1 receptor ( CSF1R ) , and Fms - like tyrosine kinase - 3 ( FLT - 3 ) .
These kinases except for FLT - 3 have been implicated in pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases ( ILD ) .
Nintedanib binds competitively to the adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) binding pocket of these kinases and blocks the intracellular signaling cascades , which have been demonstrated to be involved in the pathogenesis of fibrotic tissue remodeling in ILD .
Nintedanib also inhibits the following nRTKs : Lck , Lyn and Src kinases .
The contribution of FLT - 3 and nRTK inhibition to nintedanib efficacy in ILD is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a study in renal cell cancer patients , QT / QTc measurements were recorded and showed that a single oral dose of 200 mg nintedanib as well as multiple oral doses of 200 mg nintedanib administered twice daily for 15 days did not prolong the QTcF interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The PK properties of nintedanib were similar in healthy volunteers , patients with IPF , patients with chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype , patients with SSc - ILD , and cancer patients .
The PK of nintedanib is linear .
Dose proportionality was shown by an increase of nintedanib exposure with increasing doses ( dose range 50 to 450 mg once daily and 150 to 300 mg twice daily ) .
Accumulation upon multiple administrations in patients with IPF was 1 . 76 - fold for AUC .
Steady - state plasma concentrations were achieved within one week of dosing .
Nintedanib trough concentrations remained stable for more than one year .
The inter - individual variability in the PK of nintedanib was moderate to high ( coefficient of variation of standard PK parameters in the range of 30 % to 70 % ) , intra - individual variability low to moderate ( coefficients of variation below 40 % ) .
Absorption Nintedanib reached maximum plasma concentrations approximately 2 to 4 hours after oral administration as a soft gelatin capsule under fed conditions .
The absolute bioavailability of a 100 mg dose was 4 . 7 % ( 90 % CI : 3 . 62 to 6 . 08 ) in healthy volunteers .
Absorption and bioavailability are decreased by transporter effects and substantial first - pass metabolism .
After food intake , nintedanib exposure increased by approximately 20 % compared to administration under fasted conditions ( 90 % CI : 95 . 3 % to 152 . 5 % ) and absorption was delayed ( median tmax fasted : 2 . 00 hours ; fed : 3 . 98 hours ) , irrespective of the food type .
Distribution Nintedanib follows bi - phasic disposition kinetics .
After intravenous infusion , a high volume of distribution which was larger than total body volume ( Vss : 1050 L ) was observed .
The in vitro protein binding of nintedanib in human plasma was high , with a bound fraction of 97 . 8 % .
Serum albumin is considered to be the major binding protein .
Nintedanib is preferentially distributed in plasma with a blood to plasma ratio of 0 . 87 .
Elimination The effective half - life of nintedanib in patients with IPF was 9 . 5 hours ( gCV 31 . 9 % ) .
Total plasma clearance after intravenous infusion was high ( CL : 1390 mL / min ; gCV 28 . 8 % ) .
Urinary excretion of unchanged drug within 48 hours was about 0 . 05 % of the dose after oral and about 1 . 4 % of the dose after intravenous administration ; the renal clearance was 20 mL / min .
Metabolism The prevalent metabolic reaction for nintedanib is hydrolytic cleavage by esterases resulting in the free acid moiety BIBF 1202 .
BIBF 1202 is subsequently glucuronidated by UGT enzymes , namely UGT 1A1 , UGT 1A7 , UGT 1A8 , and UGT 1A10 to BIBF 1202 glucuronide .
Only a minor extent of the biotransformation of nintedanib consisted of CYP pathways , with CYP3A4 being the predominant enzyme involved .
The major CYP - dependent metabolite could not be detected in plasma in the human absorption , distribution , metabolism , and elimination study .
In vitro , CYP - dependent metabolism accounted for about 5 % compared to about 25 % ester cleavage .
Excretion The major route of elimination of drug - related radioactivity after oral administration of [ 14 C ] nintedanib was via fecal / biliary excretion ( 93 . 4 % of dose ) , and the majority of OFEV was excreted as BIBF 1202 .
The contribution of renal excretion to the total clearance was low ( 0 . 65 % of dose ) .
The overall recovery was considered complete ( above 90 % ) within 4 days after dosing .
Specific Populations Age , Body Weight , and Sex Based on population PK analysis , age and body weight were correlated with nintedanib exposure .
However , the effects on exposure are not sufficient to warrant a dose adjustment .
There was no influence of sex on the exposure of nintedanib .
Patients with Renal Impairment Based on a population PK analysis of data from 933 patients with IPF , exposure to nintedanib was not influenced by mild ( CrCl : 60 to 90 mL / min ; n = 399 ) or moderate ( CrCl : 30 to 60 mL / min ; n = 116 ) renal impairment .
Data in severe renal impairment ( CrCl below 30 mL / min ) was limited .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment A dedicated single - dose phase I pharmacokinetics study of OFEV compared 8 subjects with mild hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A ) and 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh B ) to 17 subjects with normal hepatic function .
In subjects with mild hepatic impairment , the mean exposure to nintedanib was 2 . 4 - fold higher based on Cmax ( 90 % CI : 1 . 6 to 3 . 6 ) and 2 . 2 - fold higher based on AUC0 - inf ( 90 % CI : 1 . 4 to 3 . 5 ) .
In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment , exposure was 6 . 9 - fold higher based on Cmax ( 90 % CI : 4 . 4 to 11 . 0 ) and 7 . 6 - fold higher based on AUC0 - inf ( 90 % CI : 5 . 1 to 11 . 3 ) .
Subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh C ) have not been studied .
Smokers In the population PK analysis , the exposure of nintedanib was 21 % lower in current smokers compared to ex - and never - smokers .
The effect is not sufficient to warrant a dose adjustment .
Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Nintedanib to Affect Other Drugs Effect of nintedanib coadministration on pirfenidone AUC and Cmax was evaluated in a multiple - dose study .
Nintedanib did not have an effect on the exposure of pirfenidone .
Fifteen female patients with SSc - ILD received a single dose of a combination of 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel before and after twice daily dosing of 150 mg nintedanib for at least 10 days .
Co - administration of nintedanib did not change the exposure of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
In in vitro studies , nintedanib was shown not to be an inhibitor of OATP - 1B1 , OATP - 1B3 , OATP - 2B1 , OCT - 2 , or MRP - 2 .
In vitro studies also showed that nintedanib has weak inhibitory potential on OCT - 1 , BCRP , and P - gp ; these findings are considered to be of low clinical relevance .
Nintedanib and its metabolites , BIBF 1202 and BIBF 1202 glucuronide , did not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes in vitro .
Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Nintedanib Nintedanib is a substrate of P - gp and , to a minor extent , CYP3A4 .
Coadministration with the P - gp and CYP3A4 inhibitor , ketoconazole , increased exposure to nintedanib 1 . 61 - fold based on AUC and 1 . 83 - fold based on Cmax in a dedicated drug - drug interaction study .
In a drug - drug interaction study with the P - gp and CYP3A4 inducer , rifampicin , exposure to nintedanib decreased to 50 . 3 % based on AUC and to 60 . 3 % based on Cmax upon coadministration with rifampicin compared to administration of nintedanib alone .
Effect of pirfenidone coadministration on nintedanib AUC and Cmax was evaluated in a multiple - dose drug - drug interaction study .
Pirfenidone did not have an effect on the exposure of nintedanib .
Concomitant treatment with nintedanib and pirfenidone was also investigated in a separate trial , which was an exploratory open - label , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) trial of nintedanib 150 mg twice daily with add - on pirfenidone ( titrated to 801 mg three times a day ) compared to nintedanib 150 mg twice daily alone in 105 randomized patients for 12 weeks .
Similar nintedanib trough plasma concentrations were observed when comparing patients receiving nintedanib alone with patients receiving nintedanib with add - on pirfenidone .
Healthy volunteers received a single dose of 150 mg nintedanib before and after multiple dosing of 125 mg bosentan twice daily at steady state .
Coadministration of nintedanib with bosentan did not alter the pharmacokinetics of nintedanib .
Nintedanib displays a pH - dependent solubility profile with increased solubility at acidic pH less than 3 .
However , in the clinical trials , coadministration with proton pump inhibitors or histamine H2 antagonists did not influence the exposure ( trough concentrations ) of nintedanib .
In in vitro studies , nintedanib was shown not to be a substrate of OATP - 1B1 , OATP - 1B3 , OATP - 2B1 , OCT - 2 , MRP - 2 , or BCRP .
In vitro studies also showed that nintedanib was a substrate of OCT - 1 ; these findings are considered to be of low clinical relevance .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies of nintedanib in rats and mice have not revealed any evidence of carcinogenic potential .
Nintedanib was dosed up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day in rats and mice , respectively .
These doses were less than and approximately 4 times the MRHD on a plasma drug AUC basis .
Nintedanib was negative for genotoxicity in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , the mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
In rats , nintedanib reduced female fertility at exposure levels approximately 3 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis at an oral dose of 100 mg / kg / day ) .
Effects included increases in resorption and post - implantation loss , and a decrease in gestation index .
Changes in the number and size of corpora lutea in the ovaries were observed in chronic toxicity studies in rats and mice .
An increase in the number of females with resorptions only was observed at exposures approximately equal to the MRHD ( on an AUC basis at an oral dose of 20 mg / kg / day ) .
Nintedanib had no effects on male fertility in rats at exposure levels approximately 3 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis at an oral dose of 100 mg / kg / day ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis The clinical efficacy of OFEV has been studied in 1231 patients with IPF in one phase 2 ( Study 1 [ NCT00514683 ] ) and two phase 3 studies ( Study 2 [ NCT01335464 ] and Study 3 [ NCT01335477 ] ) .
These were randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies comparing treatment with OFEV 150 mg twice daily to placebo for 52 weeks .
Study 2 and Study 3 were identical in design .
Study 1 was very similar in design .
Patients were randomized in a 3 : 2 ratio ( 1 : 1 for Study 1 ) to either OFEV 150 mg or placebo twice daily for 52 weeks .
Study 1 also included other treatment arms ( 50 mg daily , 50 mg twice daily , and 100 mg twice daily ) that are not further discussed .
The primary endpoint was the annual rate of decline in Forced Vital Capacity ( FVC ) .
Time to first acute IPF exacerbation was a key secondary endpoint in Study 2 and Study 3 and a secondary endpoint in Study 1 .
Change from baseline in FVC percent predicted and survival were additional secondary endpoints in all studies .
Patients were required to have a diagnosis of IPF ( ATS / ERS / JRS / ALAT criteria ) for less than 5 years .
Diagnoses were centrally adjudicated based on radiologic and , if applicable , histopathologic confirmation .
Patients were required to be greater than or equal to 40 years of age with an FVC greater than or equal to 50 % of predicted and a carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( DLCO , corrected for hemoglobin ) 30 % to 79 % of predicted .
Patients with relevant airways obstruction ( i . e . , pre - bronchodilator FEV1 / FVC less than 0 . 7 ) or , in the opinion of the investigator , likely to receive a lung transplant during the studies were excluded ( being listed for lung transplant was acceptable for inclusion ) .
Patients with greater than 1 . 5 times ULN of ALT , AST , or bilirubin , patients with a known risk or predisposition to bleeding , patients receiving a full dose of anticoagulation treatment , and patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or stroke were excluded from the studies .
Patients were also excluded if they received other investigational therapy , azathioprine , cyclophosphamide , or cyclosporine A within 8 weeks of entry into this trial , or n - acetyl cysteine and prednisone ( greater than 15 mg / day or equivalent ) within 2 weeks .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 60 % ) or Asian ( 30 % ) and male ( 79 % ) .
Patients had a mean age of 67 years and a mean FVC percent predicted of 80 % .
Annual Rate of Decline in FVC A statistically significant reduction in the annual rate of decline of FVC ( in mL ) was demonstrated in patients receiving OFEV compared to patients receiving placebo based on the random coefficient regression model , adjusted for gender , height , and age .
The treatment effect on FVC was consistent in all 3 studies .
See Table 3 for individual study results .
Table 3 Annual Rate of Decline in FVC ( mL ) in Study 1 , Study 2 , and Study 3 a Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 OFEV 150 mg twice daily Placebo OFEV 150 mg twice daily Placebo OFEV 150 mg twice daily Placebo aRandomized set in Study 1 ; treated set in Study 2 and Study 3 bEstimated based on a random coefficient regression model Number of analyzed patients 84 83 309 204 329 219 Ratea of decline over 52 weeks - 60 - 191 - 115 - 240 - 114 - 207 Comparison vs placebo Differenceb 131 125 94 95 % CI ( 27 , 235 ) ( 78 , 173 ) ( 45 , 143 ) Figure 1 displays the change from baseline over time in both treatment groups for Study 2 .
When the mean observed FVC change from baseline was plotted over time , the curves diverged at all timepoints through Week 52 .
Similar plots were seen for Study 1 and Study 3 .
Figure 1 Mean ( SEM ) Observed FVC Change from Baseline ( mL ) Over Time in Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] Change from Baseline in Percent Predicted Forced Vital Capacity Figure 2 presents the cumulative distribution for all cut - offs for the change from baseline in FVC percent predicted at Week 52 for Study 2 .
For all categorical declines in lung function , the proportion of patients declining was lower on OFEV than on placebo .
Study 3 showed similar results .
Figure 2 Cumulative Distribution of Patients by Change in Percent Predicted FVC from Baseline to Week 52 ( Study 2 ) .
[ 1 ] The vertical lines indicate ≥ 0 % decline or ≥ 10 % decline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Missing data for change from baseline at Week 52 in percent predicted FVC ( due to death , lost to follow - up or censoring before 52 weeks ) was imputed using the worst decline from baseline at Week 52 observed among all patients with available data , regardless of treatment . bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] Time to First Acute IPF Exacerbation Acute IPF exacerbation was defined as unexplained worsening or development of dyspnea within 30 days , new diffuse pulmonary infiltrates on chest x - ray , and / or new high - resolution CT parenchymal abnormalities with no pneumothorax or pleural effusion , and exclusion of alternative causes .
Acute IPF exacerbation was adjudicated in Study 2 and Study 3 .
In Study 1 ( investigator - reported ) and Study 3 ( adjudicated ) , the risk of first acute IPF exacerbation over 52 weeks was significantly reduced in patients receiving OFEV compared to placebo ( hazard ratio [ HR ] : 0 . 16 , 95 % CI : 0 . 04 , 0 . 71 ) and ( HR : 0 . 20 , 95 % CI : 0 . 07 , 0 . 56 ) , respectively .
In Study 2 ( adjudicated ) , there was no difference between the treatment groups ( HR : 0 . 55 , 95 % CI : 0 . 20 , 1 . 54 ) .
Survival Survival was evaluated for OFEV compared to placebo in Study 2 and Study 3 as an exploratory analysis to support the primary endpoint ( FVC ) .
All - cause mortality was assessed over the study duration and available follow - up period , irrespective of cause of death and whether patients continued treatment .
All - cause mortality did not show a statistically significant difference ( See Figure 3 ) .
Figure 3 Kaplan - Meier Estimates of All - Cause Mortality at Vital Status – End of Study : Study 2 and Study 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Chronic Fibrosing Interstitial Lung Diseases with a Progressive Phenotype The clinical efficacy of OFEV has been studied in patients with chronic fibrosing ILDs with a progressive phenotype in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled phase 3 trial ( Study 5 [ NCT02999178 ] ) .
A total of 663 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive either OFEV 150 mg twice daily or matching placebo for at least 52 weeks .
Randomization was stratified based on high resolution computed tomography ( HRCT ) fibrotic pattern as assessed by central readers : 412 patients with UIP - like HRCT pattern and 251 patients with other HRCT fibrotic patterns were randomized .
There were 2 co - primary populations defined for the analyses in this trial : all patients ( the overall population ) and patients with HRCT with UIP - like HRCT fibrotic pattern .
The primary endpoint was the annual rate of decline in FVC ( in mL ) over 52 weeks .
Other endpoints included time to first acute ILD exacerbation and time to death .
Patients with a clinical diagnosis of a chronic fibrosing ILD were selected if they had relevant fibrosis ( greater than 10 % fibrotic features ) on HRCT and presented with clinical signs of progression ( defined as FVC decline ≥ 10 % , FVC decline ≥ 5 % and < 10 % with worsening symptoms or imaging , or worsening symptoms and worsening imaging all in the 24 months prior to screening ) .
Patients were required to have an FVC greater than or equal to 45 % of predicted and a DLCO 30 % to less than 80 % of predicted .
Patients were required to have progressed despite management deemed appropriate in clinical practice by investigators for the patient ' s relevant ILD .
Patients with IPF , relevant airways obstruction ( i . e . , pre - bronchodilator FEV1 / FVC less than 0 . 7 ) , or significant pulmonary hypertension were excluded from the trial .
Patients with greater than 1 . 5 times ULN of ALT , AST , or bilirubin , patients with a known risk or predisposition to bleeding , patients receiving a full dose of anticoagulation treatment , and patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or stroke were excluded .
Patients were also excluded if they received other investigational therapy , azathioprine , cyclosporine , mycophenolate mofetil , tacrolimus , oral corticosteroids greater than 20 mg / day , or the combination of oral corticosteroids + azathioprine + n - acetylcysteine within 4 weeks of randomization , cyclophosphamide within 8 weeks prior to randomization , rituximab within 6 months , or previous treatment with nintedanib or pirfenidone .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 74 % ) or Asian ( 25 % ) .
Patients were mostly male ( 54 % ) and had a mean age of 66 years and a mean FVC percent predicted of 69 % , and 49 % were never - smokers .
The underlying clinical ILD diagnoses in groups represented in the trial were hypersensitivity pneumonitis ( 26 % ) , autoimmune ILDs ( 26 % ) , idiopathic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia ( 19 % ) , unclassifiable idiopathic interstitial pneumonia ( 17 % ) , and other ILDs ( 12 % ) .
Annual Rate of Decline in FVC There was a statistically significant reduction in the annual rate of decline in FVC ( in mL ) over 52 weeks in patients receiving OFEV compared to patients receiving placebo .
The annual rate of decline in FVC ( in mL ) over 52 weeks was significantly reduced by 107 mL in patients receiving OFEV compared to patients receiving placebo .
Results in the subpopulations of patients with HRCT with UIP - like fibrotic pattern and patients with other fibrotic patterns ( Other HRCT ) are included with the overall population in Table 4 .
Table 4 Annual Rate of Decline in FVC ( mL ) in Study 5 Overall UIP - like Subpopulation Other HRCT Subpopulation OFEV Placebo OFEV Placebo OFEV Placebo aBased on a random coefficient regression model with fixed categorical effects of treatment , HRCT pattern , fixed continuous effects of time , baseline FVC ( mL ) , and including treatment by time and baseline by time interactions Number of analyzed patients 331 331 206 206 125 125 Adjusted annual rate of decline over 52 weeks - 81 - 188 - 83 - 211 - 79 - 154 Comparison vs placebo differencea 107 128 75 * 95 % CI ( 65 , 148 ) ( 71 , 186 ) ( 16 , 135 ) * * Comparison based on the Other HRCT subpopulation was not included in the multiple testing procedure .
Values shown here are for descriptive purposes .
A post - hoc exploratory analysis by ILD diagnosis was performed and is shown in Figure 4 .
Treatment response across ILD diagnoses was consistent for FVC .
Figure 4 Annual Rate of Decline in FVC ( mL ) over 52 Weeks based on Underlying ILD Diagnosis in Study 5 * [ MULTIMEDIA ] ILD = interstitial lung disease ; Autoimmune ILDs : includes rheumatoid arthritis - associated ILD , mixed connective tissue disease , systemic sclerosis - associated ILD , and other terms ; Other ILDs : includes fibrosing ILDs not categorized under autoimmune ILDs , hypersensitivity pneumonitis , idiopathic nonspecific interstitial pneumonia , or unclassifiable idiopathic interstitial pneumonia .
The three most common ILDs in this category are exposure - related ILD , sarcoidosis , and pleuro - parenchymal fibroelastosis .
* These results are from a post - hoc exploratory analysis .
Values shown here are for descriptive purposes .
Figure 5 shows the change in FVC from baseline over time in the treatment groups .
When the mean observed FVC change from baseline was plotted over time , the curves diverged at all timepoints through Week 52 .
Figure 5 Mean ( SEM ) Observed FVC Change from Baseline ( mL ) Over 52 Weeks in Study 5 [ MULTIMEDIA ] bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Percent Change from Baseline in Forced Vital Capacity Figure 6 presents the percent change from baseline in FVC in mL at Week 52 for Study 5 .
For the majority of patients , the decline in lung function was less on OFEV than on placebo .
Figure 6 Histogram of the Percent Change in FVC ( mL ) from Baseline to Week 52 According to Treatment and Percent Increments or Decrements of 5 ( Study 5 ) a [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Patients classified as having missing FVC data at Week 52 are those with no FVC assessment between Day 310 and Day 373 .
bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] Time to First Acute ILD Exacerbation Acute ILD exacerbation was defined as unexplained worsening or development of dyspnea within 30 days , new diffuse pulmonary infiltrates on chest x - ray , and / or new HRCT parenchymal abnormalities with no pneumothorax or pleural effusion , and exclusion of alternative causes .
Acute ILD exacerbations were not adjudicated .
The risk of first acute ILD exacerbation did not show a statistically significant difference between the OFEV group compared to placebo ( 52 week treatment period : HR 0 . 72 , ( 95 % CI : 0 . 38 , 1 . 37 ) ; whole trial : HR 0 . 63 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 37 , 1 . 07 ) ) .
Survival Survival was evaluated for OFEV compared to placebo in Study 5 to support the primary endpoint ( FVC ) .
All - cause mortality was assessed over the study duration and available follow - up period , irrespective of cause of death and whether patients continued treatment .
All - cause mortality did not show a statistically significant difference ( 52 week treatment period : HR 0 . 94 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 47 , 1 . 86 ) ; whole trial : HR 0 . 78 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 50 , 1 . 21 ) ) .
14 . 3 Systemic Sclerosis - Associated Interstitial Lung Disease The clinical efficacy of nintedanib has been studied in patients with SSc - ILD in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled phase 3 trial ( Study 4 [ NCT02597933 ] ) .
A total of 580 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive either OFEV 150 mg twice daily or matching placebo for at least 52 weeks , of which 576 patients were treated .
Randomization was stratified by anti - topoisomerase antibody ( ATA ) status .
Individual patients remained on blinded trial treatment for up to 100 weeks .
The primary endpoint was the annual rate of decline in FVC over 52 weeks .
The absolute change from baseline in the modified Rodnan skin score ( mRSS ) at Week 52 was a key secondary endpoint .
Mortality over the whole trial was an additional secondary endpoint .
Patients were diagnosed with SSc - ILD based upon the 2013 American College of Rheumatology / European League Against Rheumatism classification criteria for SSc with onset of disease ( first non - Raynaud symptom ) of less than 7 years and greater than or equal to 10 % fibrosis on a chest high resolution computed tomography ( HRCT ) scan conducted within the previous 12 months .
Patients were required to have an FVC greater than or equal to 40 % of predicted and a DLCO 30 - 89 % of predicted .
Patients with relevant airways obstruction ( i . e . , pre - bronchodilator FEV1 / FVC less than 0 . 7 ) or previous or planned hematopoietic stem cell transplant were excluded from the trial .
Patients with greater than 1 . 5 times ULN of ALT , AST , or bilirubin , patients with a known risk or predisposition to bleeding , patients receiving a full dose of anticoagulation treatment , and patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or stroke were excluded from the study .
Patients were excluded if they had significant pulmonary hypertension , more than three digital fingertip ulcers , a history of severe digital necrosis requiring hospitalization , or a history of scleroderma renal crisis .
Patients were also excluded if they received other investigational therapy , azathioprine within 8 weeks prior to randomization , cyclophosphamide or cyclosporine A within 6 months prior to randomization , or previous treatment with nintedanib or pirfenidone .
The majority of patients were female ( 75 % ) .
Patients were mostly Caucasian ( 67 % ) , Asian ( 25 % ) , or Black ( 6 % ) .
The mean age was 54 years .
Overall , 52 % of patients had diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) and 48 % had limited cutaneous SSc .
The mean time since first onset of a non - Raynaud symptom was 3 . 49 years .
At baseline , 49 % of patients were on stable therapy with mycophenolate .
Annual Rate of Decline in FVC The annual rate of decline of FVC ( in mL ) over 52 weeks was significantly reduced by 41 mL in patients receiving OFEV compared to patients receiving placebo , corresponding to a relative treatment effect of 44 % .
See Table 5 .
Table 5 Annual Rate of Decline in FVC ( mL ) in Study 4 OFEV 150 mg twice daily Placebo aBased on a random coefficient regression model , adjusted for gender , height , age , ATA status , FVC at baseline , FVC at baseline - by - time Number of analyzed patients 287 288 Adjusted rate of decline over 52 weeks - 52 - 93 Comparison vs placebo Differencea 41 95 % CI ( 3 , 79 ) Figure 7 displays the change from baseline over time in both treatment groups .
When the mean observed FVC change from baseline was plotted over time , the curves diverged at all timepoints through Week 52 .
Separation of the mean values is seen after 12 weeks of treatment .
Figure 7 Mean ( SEM ) Observed FVC Change from Baseline ( mL ) Over Time in Study 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] bid = twice daily In two pre - specified subgroup efficacy analyses , the mean treatment difference in FVC decline at 52 weeks in patients were examined by region and mycophenolate use ( Figure 8 ) .
Figure 8 Subgroup Analyses of the Mean Treatment Difference in FVC ( mL ) Decline at Week 52 by Region and Mycophenolate Use ( Study 4 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Percent Change from Baseline in Forced Vital Capacity Figure 9 presents the percent change from baseline in FVC in mL at Week 52 for Study 4 .
For the majority of patients , the decline in lung function was less on OFEV than on placebo .
a Patients classified as having missing FVC data at Week 52 are those with no FVC assessment between Day 310 and Day 373 .
Figure 9 Histogram of the Percent Change in FVC ( mL ) from Baseline to Week 52 According to Treatment and Percent Increments or Decrements of 5 ( Study 4 ) a [ MULTIMEDIA ] bid = twice daily [ MULTIMEDIA ] Modified Rodnan Skin Score No benefit in mRSS was observed in patients receiving OFEV .
The adjusted mean absolute change from baseline in mRSS at Week 52 was comparable between the OFEV group ( - 2 . 17 ( 95 % CI : - 2 . 69 , - 1 . 65 ) ) and the placebo group ( - 1 . 96 ( 95 % CI : - 2 . 48 , - 1 . 45 ) ) .
The adjusted mean difference between the treatment groups was - 0 . 21 ( 95 % CI : - 0 . 94 , 0 . 53 ) .
Survival No difference in survival was observed in an exploratory analysis of mortality over the whole trial ( OFEV : n = 10 ( 3 . 5 % ) vs . placebo : n = 9 ( 3 . 1 % ) ) .
The analysis of time to death over the whole trial resulted in a HR of 1 . 16 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 47 , 2 . 84 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 150 mg : brown , opaque , oblong , soft capsules imprinted in black with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and " 150 " .
They are packaged in HDPE bottles with a child - resistant closure , available as follows : Bottles of 60 NDC : 0597 - 0145 - 60 100 mg : peach , opaque , oblong , soft capsules imprinted in black with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol and " 100 " .
They are packaged in HDPE bottles with a child - resistant closure , available as follows : Bottles of 60 NDC : 0597 - 0143 - 60 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from exposure to high humidity and avoid excessive heat .
If repackaged , use USP tight container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Elevated Liver Enzymes and Drug - Induced Liver Injury Advise patients that they will need to undergo liver function testing periodically .
Advise patients to immediately report any symptoms of a liver problem ( e . g . , skin or the whites of eyes turn yellow , urine turns dark or brown ( tea colored ) , pain on the right side of stomach , bleed or bruise more easily than normal , lethargy , loss of appetite ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Inform patients that gastrointestinal disorders such as diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting were the most commonly reported gastrointestinal events occurring in patients who received OFEV .
Advise patients that their healthcare provider may recommend hydration , antidiarrheal medications ( e . g . , loperamide ) , or anti - emetic medications to treat these side effects .
Temporary dosage reductions or discontinuations may be required .
Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider at the first signs of diarrhea or for any severe or persistent diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Counsel patients on pregnancy prevention and planning .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving treatment with OFEV .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception at initiation of , during treatment , and for at least 3 months after taking the last dose of OFEV .
Advise women taking oral hormonal contraceptives who experience vomiting and / or diarrhea or other conditions where the drug absorption may be reduced to contact their doctor to discuss alternative highly effective contraception .
Advise female patients to notify their doctor if they become pregnant or suspect they are pregnant during therapy with OFEV [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Arterial Thromboembolic Events Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of acute myocardial ischemia and other arterial thromboembolic events and the urgency to seek immediate medical care for these conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Risk of Bleeding Bleeding events have been reported .
Advise patients to report unusual bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Perforation Serious gastrointestinal perforation events have been reported .
Advise patients to report signs and symptoms of gastrointestinal perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Nephrotic Range Proteinuria Nephrotic range proteinuria has been reported .
Advise patients to report signs and symptoms of proteinuria ( e . g . , fluid retention , foamy urine ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Lactation Advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended while taking OFEV [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Smokers Encourage patients to stop smoking prior to treatment with OFEV and to avoid smoking when using OFEV [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Administration Instruct patients to take OFEV with food , to swallow OFEV capsules whole with liquid , and not to chew the capsules due to the bitter taste .
Advise patients or caregivers not to open or crush OFEV capsules and to wash hands immediately and thoroughly if contact with the content of the capsule occurs .
Advise patients to not make up for a missed dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH OFEV is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL9114EJ132022 SPL9116D This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : October 2022 Patient Information OFEV ® ( OH - fev ) ( nintedanib capsules ) What is the most important information I should know about OFEV ?
• OFEV can cause birth defects or death to an unborn baby .
Women should not become pregnant while taking OFEV .
Women who are able to become pregnant should have a pregnancy test before starting treatment with OFEV .
• Women who are able to become pregnant should use highly effective birth control at the start of treatment , during treatment , and for at least 3 months after treatment .
Talk with your doctor about what birth control method is right for you during this time .
• Birth control pills may not work as well in women having vomiting , diarrhea , or other problems reducing the drug absorption .
If you have any of these problems , talk with your doctor about which highly effective birth control method is right for you .
• If you become pregnant or think you are pregnant while taking OFEV , tell your doctor right away .
What is OFEV ?
• OFEV is a prescription medicine used : • to treat adults with a lung disease called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) .
• to treat adults with a long - lasting ( chronic ) interstitial lung disease in which lung fibrosis continues to worsen ( progress ) .
• to slow the rate of decline in lung function in adults with systemic sclerosis - associated interstitial lung disease ( SSc - ILD ) ( also known as scleroderma - associated ILD ) .
• It is not known if OFEV is safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my doctor before taking OFEV ?
Before you take OFEV , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems .
• have heart problems .
• have a history of blood clots .
• have a bleeding problem or a family history of a bleeding problem .
• have had recent surgery in your stomach ( abdominal ) area .
• are a smoker .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
OFEV can harm your unborn baby .
OFEV can cause birth defects or death to an unborn baby .
See " What is the most important information I should know about OFEV ? "
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if OFEV passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed while taking OFEV .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements such as St . John ' s wort .
Keep a list of the medicines you take and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take OFEV ?
• Take OFEV exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor will tell you how much OFEV to take and when to take it .
• Take OFEV with food .
Swallow the OFEV capsules whole with a liquid .
• Do not chew , crush , or open OFEV capsules .
If you or your caregiver accidently comes in contact with the content of the capsule , wash hands well right away .
• If you miss a dose of OFEV , take your next dose at your regular time .
Do not take the missed dose .
• Do not take more than 300 mg of OFEV in 1 day .
• If you take too much OFEV , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your doctor should do certain blood tests before you start taking OFEV .
What are the possible side effects of OFEV ?
OFEV may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about OFEV ? "
• liver problems .
Call your doctor right away if you have unexplained symptoms such as yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes ( jaundice ) , dark or brown ( tea colored ) urine , pain on the upper right side of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , bleeding or bruising more easily than normal , feeling tired , or loss of appetite .
Your doctor will do blood tests to check how well your liver is working before starting and during your treatment with OFEV .
• diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
While you are taking OFEV , your doctor may recommend that you drink fluids or take medicine to treat these side effects .
Tell your doctor if you have diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting or if these symptoms do not go away or become worse .
Tell your doctor if you are taking over - the - counter laxatives , stool softeners , and other medicines or dietary supplements that can cause diarrhea .
• heart attack .
Tell your doctor right away if you have symptoms of a heart problem .
These symptoms may include chest pain or pressure , pain in your arms , back , neck or jaw , or shortness of breath .
• stroke .
Tell your doctor right away if you have symptoms of a stroke .
These symptoms may include numbness or weakness on 1 side of your body , trouble talking , headache , or dizziness .
• bleeding problems .
OFEV may increase your chances of having bleeding problems .
Tell your doctor if you have unusual bleeding , bruising , or wounds that do not heal .
Tell your doctor if you are taking a blood thinner , including prescription blood thinners and over - the - counter aspirin .
• tear in your stomach or intestinal wall ( perforation ) .
OFEV may increase your chances of having a tear in your stomach or intestinal wall .
Tell your doctor if you have pain or swelling in your stomach area .
• increased protein in your urine ( proteinuria ) .
OFEV may increase your chances of having protein in your urine .
Tell your doctor if you have any signs and symptoms of protein in the urine such as foamy urine , swelling , including in your hands , arms , legs , or feet , or sudden weight gain .
The most common side effects of OFEV are diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain , vomiting , liver problems , decreased appetite , headache , weight loss , and high blood pressure .
These are not all the possible side effects of OFEV .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OFEV ?
• Store OFEV at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep OFEV dry and protect from high heat .
Keep OFEV and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OFEV .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use OFEV for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OFEV to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about OFEV .
If you would like more information , talk to your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about OFEV that is written for health professionals .
For more information about OFEV , including the current prescribing information , and patient support , go to www . ofev . com / support or call Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 542 - 6257 , or scan the code to go to www . ofev . com / support .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What are the ingredients in OFEV ?
Active ingredient : nintedanib Inactive ingredients : Fill Material : triglycerides , hard fat , lecithin .
Capsule Shell : gelatin , glycerol , titanium dioxide , red ferric oxide , yellow ferric oxide , black ink Distributed by : Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Ridgefield , CT 06877 USA Licensed from : Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH OFEV is a registered trademark of and used under license from Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH .
Copyright © 2022 Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH , ALL RIGHTS RESERVED COL9114EJ132022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mg Capsule Bottle Carton NDC 0597 - 0145 - 60 Ofev ® ( nintedanib capsules ) 150 mg Rx only 60 capsules Boehringer Ingelheim [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Capsule Bottle Carton NDC 0597 - 0143 - 60 Ofev ® ( nintedanib capsules ) 100 mg Rx only 60 capsules Boehringer Ingelheim [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
