Active ingredient Step 1 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 2 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 3 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Use reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Do not use • • if you continue to smoke , chew tobacco , use snuff , or use a nicotine gum or other nicotine containing products Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • an allergy to adhesive tape or have skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • • do not smoke even when not wearing the patch .
The nicotine in your skin will still be entering your blood stream for several hours after you take off the patch .
• • If you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or if your skin swells , or you get a rash • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness and rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together .
Replace in pouch and discard .
Directions • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other information • • stop smoking completely when you begin using the patch • • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use according to the following 10 week schedule : STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Use one 21 mg patch / day Use one 14 mg patch / day Use one 7 mg patch / day Weeks 1 - 6 Weeks 7 - 8 Weeks 9 - 10 • • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , do not use STEP 1 ( 21 mg ) .
Start with STEP 2 ( 14 mg ) for 6 weeks , then STEP 3 ( 7 mg ) for 2 weeks and then stop .
• • steps 2 and 3 allow you to gradually reduce your level of nicotine .
Completing the full program will increase your chances of quitting successfully .
• • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean and hairless .
Save pouch for disposing of the patch after use • • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• • wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Throw away the patch by folding sticky ends together .
Replace in its pouch and discard .
See enclosed User ’ s Guide for safety and handling .
• • you may wear the patch for 16 or 24 hours .
• • if you crave cigarettes when you wake up , wear the patch for 24 hours .
• • if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • • the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • • do not wear more than one patch at a time • • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • • stop using the patch at the end of 10 weeks .
If you started with STEP 2 , stop using the patch at the end of 8 weeks .
If you still feel the need to use the patch , talk to your doctor .
Other information store at 20 – 25 oC ( 68 – 77 oF ) Inactive ingredients ethylene vinyl acetate - copolymer , polyisobutylene and high density polyethylene between clear polyester backings Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 For your family ' s protection , nicotine patches are supplied in child - resistant pouches .
Do not use if individual pouch / packet is damaged or open .
Walmart If this product is found for sale at a location other than Walmart please call 1 - 800 - WAL - MART .
To increase your success in quitting : • You must be motivated to quit .
• Complete the full treatment program , applying a new patch every day .
• Use with a support program as described in the enclosed User ' s Guide .
• • Not for sale to those under 18 years of age .
• • Proof of age required .
• • Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified .
Free audio CD upon request .
See inside .
Satisfaction guaranteed - Or we ' ll replace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report an undesired reaction or side effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
Made in Switzerland Distributed by : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 © Wal - Mart Stores , Inc .
* NICODERM is a licensed trademark of the GlaxoSmithKline group of companies .
What is the nicotine patch and how is it used ?
The nicotine patch is a small , nicotine - containing patch .
When you put on a nicotine patch , nicotine passes through the skin and into your body .
The nicotine patch is very thin and uses special material to control how fast nicotine passes through the skin .
Unlike the sudden jolts of nicotine delivered by cigarettes , the amount of nicotine you receive remains relatively smooth throughout the 24 or 16 hour period you wear the nicotine patch .
This helps to reduce cravings you may have for nicotine .
Read carton and enclosed User ’ s Guide before using this product .
Keep the carton and User ’ s Guide .
They contain important information READ THE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 49035 - 194 - 02 Clear Nicotine Transdermal System equate ® Compare to NicoDerm ® CQ ® * 21 mg Delivered Over 24 hours Stop Smoking Aid Includes User ' s Guide with behavior support program enrollment form If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 21 mg 14 PATCHES STEP 1 100224 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 49035 - 195 - 02 Clear Nicotine Transdermal System equate ® Compare to NicoDerm ® CQ ® * 14 mg Delivered Over 24 hours Stop Smoking Aid Includes User ' s Guide with behavior support program enrollment form If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 14 mg 14 PATCHES STEP 2 100222 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 49035 - 196 - 02 Clear Nicotine Transdermal System equate ® Compare to NicoDerm ® CQ ® * 7 mg Delivered Over 24 hours Stop Smoking Aid Includes User ' s Guide For use after completing Step 2 If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 7 mg 14 PATCHES STEP 3 100352 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
