1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glucagon for Injection is indicated for use as a diagnostic aid during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal tract .
Limitations of Use : Glucagon for Injection is not indicated for the emergency treatment of hypoglycemia because it is not packaged with a syringe and diluent necessary for rapid preparation and administration during an emergency outside of a healthcare facility .
Glucagon for Injection is a gastrointestinal motility inhibitor indicated for use as a diagnostic aid during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Glucagon for Injection is not indicated for the emergency treatment of hypoglycemia ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Reconstitute lyophilized powder with Sterile Water for Injection before use ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) • Determine dose based on diagnostic procedure , route of administration and procedure duration ( 2 . 1 ) : • To inhibit stomach and small bowel motility the dose is 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 5 mg given intravenously or 1 mg given intramuscularly • To inhibit colon motility the dose is 0 . 5 mg to 0 . 75 mg given intravenously or 1 mg to 2 mg given intramuscularly 2 . 1 Recommended Dose Determine the dose based on the type of diagnostic procedure , the route of administration and expected procedure duration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The usual dose to inhibit movement of the : • Stomach and small bowel is 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 5 mg given intravenously or 1 mg given intramuscularly .
• Colon is 0 . 5 mg to 0 . 75 mg given intravenously or 1 mg to 2 mg given intramuscularly .
Bolus doses above 1 mg administered intravenously have caused nausea and vomiting and are not recommended [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Reconstitution of the Lyophilized Powder Glucagon for Injection is a lyophilized powder , which requires reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection prior to intravenous or intramuscular use .
• Using a syringe , withdraw 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection and inject into the vial containing Glucagon for Injection lyophilized powder .
• Shake the vial gently until the powder is completely dissolved and no particles remain in the reconstituted solution .
• Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The reconstituted solution should be clear and of water - like consistency .
Discard the reconstituted solution if there are signs of gel formation or particles .
• The reconstituted solution has a concentration of approximately 1 mg of glucagon per mL .
• Use the reconstituted glucagon immediately after reconstitution .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions • Glucagon for Injection must be administered by medical personnel .
• The timing of administration of Glucagon for Injection depends upon the organ under examination and route of administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
• If given intravenously , administer Glucagon for Injection as a bolus over a time period of 1 minute .
• Discard any unused portion .
• After the end of the diagnostic procedure , give oral carbohydrates to patients who have been fasting , if this is compatible with the diagnostic procedure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 1 mg of lyophilized powder in single dose vial for reconstitution .
For Injection : 1 mg lyophilized powder in single dose vial for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Pheochromocytoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] because of the risk of increased blood pressure • Insulinoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] because of the risk of hypoglycemia • Glucagonoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] because of the risk of hypoglycemia • Pheochromocytoma ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Insulinoma ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Glucagonoma ( 4 , 5 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperglycemia in patients with diabetes : Monitor blood glucose and treat with insulin if indicated ( 5 . 3 ) • Increased blood pressure and heart rate in patients with cardiac disease : Monitor patients with known cardiac disease ( 5 . 4 ) • Allergic reactions including anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties , and hypotension , generalized rash : Discontinue and treat as indicated ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypertension in Patients with Pheochromocytoma Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because glucagon may stimulate the release of catecholamines from the tumor , which may result in a sudden and marked increase in blood pressure .
5 . 2 Hypoglycemia in Patients with Insulinoma or Glucagonoma Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with insulinoma or glucagonoma as it may cause secondary hypoglycemia .
Test patients suspected of having glucagonoma for blood levels of glucagon prior to treatment , and monitor for changes in blood glucose levels during treatment .
If a patient develops symptoms of hypoglycemia after a dose of Glucagon for Injection , administer glucose orally or intravenously .
5 . 3 Hyperglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus Treatment with Glucagon for Injection in patients with diabetes mellitus may cause hyperglycemia .
Monitor diabetic patients for changes in blood glucose levels during treatment .
If patients develop symptoms of hyperglycemia after a dose of Glucagon for Injection , administer insulin .
5 . 4 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increase in Patients with Cardiac Disease Glucagon for Injection may increase myocardial oxygen demand , blood pressure , and pulse rate which may be life - threatening in patients with cardiac disease .
Cardiac monitoring is recommended in patients with cardiac disease during glucagon treatment , and an increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions Generalized allergic reactions and hypersensitivity , including generalized rash , and anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties , and hypotension , have been reported with glucagon treatment or lactose .
Discontinue Glucagon for Injection and administer standard treatment for anaphylaxis if needed .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypertension in patients with Pheochromocytoma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypoglycemia in Patients with Insulinoma and Glucagonoma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hyperglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions ; generalized allergic reactions including generalized rash , and in some cases anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties , and hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In an open - label clinical study of Glucagon for Injection , 29 healthy volunteers received a single dose of 1 mg Glucagon for Injection intramuscularly .
Table 1 shows the most common adverse reactions that were not present at baseline and occurred in at least 5 % of patients .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in Healthy Volunteers Who Received Glucagon for Injection , 1 mg Administered Intramuscularly ( N = 29 ) % of Patients Vomiting 17 Nausea 7 Adverse Reactions from the Literature and Other Clinical Studies The following adverse reactions have been identified from the literature and clinical studies with the use of glucagon .
Therefore , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
• Nausea and vomiting occurred with doses above 1 mg administered by rapid intravenous injection ( within 1 to 2 seconds ) .
Doses above 1 mg are not recommended for intravenous use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypotension was reported up to 2 hours after administration in patients receiving glucagon as premedication for upper GI endoscopy procedures .
• A temporary increase in both blood pressure and pulse rate occurred following the administration of glucagon .
Patients taking beta - blockers experienced a temporary increase in both pulse and blood pressure that was greater than normal [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Other adverse reactions included hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic coma , as described in postmarketing reports .
Patients taking indomethacin may be more likely to experience hypoglycemia following glucagon administration [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Adverse reactions seen with glucagon are transient changes in blood pressure , increase in heart rate , hypersensitivity reactions , nausea and vomiting , and hypoglycemia ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Glucagon for Injection .
Table 2 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Glucagon for Injection Beta - Blockers Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of beta - blockers and Glucagon for Injection may increase the risk of a temporary increase in heart rate and blood pressure .
Intervention : The increase in blood pressure and heart rate may require therapy in patients with coronary artery disease .
Insulin Clinical Impact : Insulin reacts antagonistically towards glucagon .
Intervention : Monitor blood glucose when Glucagon for Injection is used as a diagnostic aid in diabetes patients .
Indomethacin Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of indomethacin and Glucagon for Injection may lead to hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Monitor blood glucose levels during glucagon treatment of patients taking indomethacin .
Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs and Glucagon for Injection increase the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility .
Intervention : Concomitant use is not recommended .
Warfarin Clinical Impact : Glucagon may increase the anticoagulant effect of warfarin .
Intervention : Monitor patients for unusual bruising or bleeding , as adjustments in warfarin dosage may be required .
• Beta - blockers : May cause a greater increase in both heart rate and blood pressure ( 7 ) • Insulin : Reacts antagonistically towards glucagon ; monitor glucose ( 7 ) • Indomethacin : May produce hypoglycemia ; monitor glucose ( 7 ) • Anticholinergic Drugs : Concomitant use not recommended due to increased gastrointestinal adverse reactions ( 7 ) • Warfarin : May increase anticoagulant effect of warfarin ; may require an adjustment in warfarin dosage ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies were performed in rats and rabbits with another glucagon product at doses of 0 . 4 , 2 , and 10 mg per kg .
These doses represent exposures of up to 100 and 200 times the human dose based on mg / m2 for rats and rabbits , respectively , and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Glucagon does not cross the human placental barrier .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether glucagon is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when glucagon is administered to a nursing woman .
No clinical studies have been performed in nursing mothers , however , glucagon is a peptide and intact glucagon is not absorbed from the GI tract .
Therefore , even if the infant ingested glucagon it would be unlikely to have any effect on the infant .
Additionally , glucagon has a short plasma half - life thus limiting amounts available to the child .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Glucagon for Injection have not been established in pediatric patients for use as a diagnostic aid during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal tract .
10 OVERDOSAGE If overdosage occurs , the patient may experience nausea , vomiting , inhibition of GI tract motility , increase in blood pressure and heart rate , and decrease in serum potassium .
In case of suspected overdosage , monitor and correct hypokalemia .
If the patient develops a severe increase in blood pressure , phentolamine mesylate may be effective in lowering blood pressure for the short time that control would be needed .
11 DESCRIPTION Glucagon for Injection , for intravenous or intramuscular use , is a gastrointestinal motility inhibitor that is produced by solid phase peptide synthesis .
Glucagon is a single - chain polypeptide containing 29 amino acid residues .
The chemical structure of the glucagon polypeptide is identical to human glucagon and to glucagon extracted from beef and pork pancreas .
The structure of glucagon is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C153H225N43O49S Molecular Weight = 3483 Glucagon for Injection is a sterile , lyophilized white powder in a 3 mL vial .
The reconstituted solution contains 1 mg of glucagon as hydrochloride per mL and lactose monohydrate ( 107 mg ) .
Glucagon for Injection is supplied at pH 2 . 5 to 3 . 5 and is soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Extra hepatic effects of glucagon include relaxation of the smooth muscle of the stomach , small bowel , and colon .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Table 3 displays the pharmacodynamics properties of Glucagon for Injection as a diagnostic aid during radiologic examination .
Table 3 : Pharmacodynamic Properties of Glucagon for Injection as a Diagnostic Aid Route of Administration Dosea Time of Onset of Action for GI Smooth Muscle Relaxation Duration of Smooth Muscle Relaxation Intravenous 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg 45 seconds 9 to 17 minutes Intramuscular 1 mg 8 to 10 minutes 12 to 27 minutes 2 mg 4 to 7 minutes 21 to 32 minutes a Select from these doses based on type of diagnostic procedure , route of administration and procedure duration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following intramuscular administration of 1 mg dose , the maximum plasma glucagon concentrations of 3391 pg / mL were attained approximately 10 minutes after dosing .
Metabolism The mean apparent half - life of glucagon was 26 minutes after intramuscular administration .
Glucagon is degraded in the liver , kidney , and plasma .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Mutagenesis Synthetic glucagon was negative in the bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) .
The clastogenic potential of synthetic glucagon in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) assay was positive in the absence of metabolic activation .
Doses of 100 and 200 mg / kg of glucagon of both pancreatic and recombinant origins gave slightly higher incidences of micronucleus formation in male mice but there was no effect in females .
The weight of evidence indicates that synthetic and recombinant glucagon are not different and do not pose a genotoxic risk to humans .
Impairment of Fertility Glucagon was not tested in animal fertility studies .
Studies in rats have shown that pancreatic glucagon does not cause impaired fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Glucagon for Injection is supplied as a sterile , lyophilized white powder in a vial .
Presentation / Product Code Unit of Sale NDC Strength Description / Unit of Use NDC 10 Single dose vials NP509613 63323 - 596 - 16 1 mg per vial 1 mL single dose vial of Glucagon for Injection ( NDC 63323 - 596 - 08 ) Diagnostic Kit NP509603 63323 - 594 - 03 1 mg per vial 1 mL single dose vial of Glucagon for Injection ( NDC 63323 - 596 - 06 ) with 1 mL single dose vial of Sterile Water for Injection , USP for reconstitution ( NDC 63323 - 185 - 03 ) The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
16 . 2 Recommended Storage Before Reconstitution The package containing Glucagon for Injection vials may be stored up to 24 months at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] prior to reconstitution .
Do not freeze .
Keep in the original package to protect from light .
After Reconstitution The Glucagon for Injection must be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection prior to use .
Use reconstituted glucagon solution immediately .
Discard any unused portion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients that generalized allergic reactions have been reported with glucagon treatment including generalized rash , and in some cases anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties , and hypotension .
Advise patients to monitor and report any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Inform patients that hypoglycemia has occurred with treatment with glucagon .
Inform patients of the symptoms of hypoglycemia and how to treat it .
Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery until ingesting a meal .
Advise patients to inform their health care provider if hypoglycemia occurs so that treatment may be given if necessary [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• Inform patients with diabetes mellitus that treatment with Glucagon for Injection may increase their risk of hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Inform patients with cardiac disease that treatment with Glucagon for Injection may increase their risk of a transient increase in blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Novaplus is a registered trademark of Vizient , Inc .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451462 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glucagon Kit 1 mg Vial Label NP509603 Glucagon for Injection ( Synthetic ) 1 mg per vial For intramuscular or intravenous injection .
For diagnostic use only .
Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection , USP Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glucagon Kit Sterile Water 1 mL Vial Label Sterile Water for Injection , USP 1 mL per vial FOR DRUG DILUENT USE ONLY Contains no antimicrobial or other added substance .
Do not give intravenously unless rendered nearly Isotonic .
Discard unused portion .
1 mL Single Dose Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glucagon Kit 1 mg Vial Carton Panel 63323 - 594 - 03 NP509603 Glucagon for Injection ( Synthetic ) For intramuscular or intravenous injection only .
1 mg per vial FOR DIAGNOSTIC USE ONLY .
Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection , USP immediately before use .
Each kit contains : • One single dose vial with 1 mg of Glucagon for Injection • One single dose vial with 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP Single Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glucagon 1 mg Vial Label NP509613 Glucagon for Injection ( Synthetic ) 1 mg per vial For intramuscular or intravenous injection .
For diagnostic use only .
Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection , USP Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glucagon 1 mg Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 596 - 16 Glucagon for Injection ( Synthetic ) For intramuscular or intravenous injection only .
1 mg per vial For diagnostic use only .
10 Single Dose Vials Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
