[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each gram of Sodium Sulfacetamide and Sulfur ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % w / w and sulfur 2 % w / w ) contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 20 mg of colloidal sulfur in a vehicle consisting of : aloe vera leaf , butylated hydroxytoluene , camellia oleifera leaf , cetyl alcohol , disodium oleamido monoethanolamine sulfosuccinate , edetate disodium , fragrance , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , PEG - 100 stearate , propylparaben , water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , xanthan gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Sodium sulfacetamide is C8H9N2NaO3S · H2O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be excreted in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Wash affected areas with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser one to two times daily , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using cleanser less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 2 % Cleanser is supplied in an 8 oz .
( 227 g ) bottle , NDC 63629 - 2034 - 1 .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 67 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Note : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep tube or packet tightly closed .
Occasionally , a slight yellowish discoloration may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
Sulfacet Sod / Sulfur 10 % / 2 % Rinse # 227 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
