To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE and other antibacterial drugs , CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
Sterile Solution is for Intramuscular and Intravenous Use CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in the ADD - Vantage ® Vial is For Intravenous Use Only WARNING Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution in vials contains clindamycin phosphate , a water soluble ester of clindamycin and phosphoric acid .
Each mL contains the equivalent of 150 mg clindamycin , 0 . 5 mg disodium edetate and 9 . 45 mg benzyl alcohol added as preservative in each mL .
Clindamycin is a semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent compound lincomycin .
The chemical name of clindamycin phosphate is L - threo - α - D - galacto - Octopyranoside , methyl - 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - [ [ ( 1 - methyl - 4 - propyl - 2 - pyrrolidinyl ) carbonyl ] amino ] - 1 - thio - , 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) , ( 2 S - trans ) - .
The molecular formula is C 18 H 34 CIN 20 8 PS and the molecular weight is 504 . 96 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in the ADD - Vantage Vial is intended for intravenous use only after further dilution with appropriate volume of ADD - Vantage diluent base solution ( see Directions for Use ) .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution in the GALAXY plastic container for intravenous use is composed of clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 300 , 600 and 900 mg of clindamycin premixed with 5 % dextrose as a sterile solution .
Disodium edetate has been added at a concentration of 0 . 04 mg / mL .
The pH has been adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid .
The plastic container is fabricated from a specially designed multilayer plastic , PL 2501 .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to the USP biological tests for plastic containers , as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Distribution Biologically inactive clindamycin phosphate is converted to active clindamycin .
By the end of short - term intravenous infusion , peak serum concentrations of active clindamycin are reached .
After intramuscular injection of clindamycin phosphate , peak concentrations of active clindamycin are reached within 3 hours in adults and 1 hour in pediatric patients .
Serum concentration - time curves may be constructed from IV peak serum concentrations as given in Table 1 by application of elimination half - lives ( see Excretion ) .
Serum concentrations of clindamycin can be maintained above the in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations for most indicated organisms by administration of clindamycin phosphate every 8 to 12 hours in adults and every 6 to 8 hours in pediatric patients , or by continuous intravenous infusion .
An equilibrium state is reached by the third dose .
No significant concentrations of clindamycin are attained in the cerebrospinal fluid even in the presence of inflamed meninges .
Metabolism In vitro studies in human liver and intestinal microsomes indicated that clindamycin is predominantly metabolized by Cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , with minor contribution from CYP3A5 , to form clindamycin sulfoxide and a minor metabolite , N - desmethylclindamycin .
Excretion Biologically inactive clindamycin phosphate disappears from the serum with 6 minutes of the average elimination half - life ; however , the average serum elimination half - life of active clindamycin is about 3 hours in adults and 2 ½ hours in pediatric patients .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal / Hepatic Impairment The elimination half - life of clindamycin is increased slightly in patients with markedly reduced renal or hepatic function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
Dosage schedules need not be modified in the presence of mild or moderate renal or hepatic disease .
Elderly Patients Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly volunteers ( 61 – 79 years ) and younger adults ( 18 – 39 years ) indicate that age alone does not alter clindamycin pharmacokinetics ( clearance , elimination half - life , volume of distribution , and area under the serum concentration - time curve ) after IV administration of clindamycin phosphate .
After oral administration of clindamycin hydrochloride , the average elimination half - life is increased to approximately 4 . 0 hours ( range 3 . 4 – 5 . 1 h ) in the elderly , compared to 3 . 2 hours ( range 2 . 1 – 4 . 2 h ) in younger adults .
The extent of absorption , however , is not different between age groups and no dosage alteration is necessary for the elderly with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function 1 .
Table 1 .
Average Peak and Trough Serum Concentrations of Active Clindamycin After Dosing with Clindamycin PhosphateDosage Regimen Peak mcg / mL Trough mcg / mL Healthy Adult Males ( Post equilibrium ) 600 mg IV in 30 min q6h 10 . 9 2 . 0 600 mg IV in 30 min q8h 10 . 8 1 . 1 900 mg IV in 30 min q8h 14 . 1 1 . 7 600 mg IM q12h [ 1 ] 9 Pediatric Patients ( first dose ) null 5 – 7 mg / kg IV in 1 hour 10 5 – 7 mg / kg IM 8 3 – 5 mg / kg IM 4 [ 1 ] Data in this group from patients being treated for infection .
Obese Children and Obese Young Adults An analysis of pharmacokinetic data in obese children and obese young adults ( 2 – 20 years ) demonstrated that clindamycin clearance and volume of distribution normalized by total body weight in these patients are comparable to those in children ( and young adults ) with normal body weight .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is bacteriostatic .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of specific bases of the 23 S ribosomal RNA .
Cross - resistance between clindamycin and lincomycin is complete .
Because the binding sites for these antibacterial drugs overlap , cross - resistance is sometimes observed among lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramin B . Macrolide - inducible resistance to clindamycin occurs in some isolates of macrolide - resistant bacteria .
Macrolide - resistant isolates of staphylococci and beta - hemolytic streptococci should be screened for induction of clindamycin resistance using the D - zone test .
Antimicrobial Activity Clindamycin has been shown to be active against most of the isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus pneumoniae ( penicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus pyogenes Anaerobic bacteria • Clostridium perfringens • Fusobacterium necrophorum • Fusobacterium nucleatum • Peptostreptococcus anaerobius • Prevotella melaninogenica The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for clindamycin against isolates of a similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of clindamycin in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus epidermidis ( methicillin - susceptible strains ) • Streptococcus agalactiae • Streptococcus anginosus • Streptococcus mitis • Streptococcus oralis Anaerobic bacteria • Actinomyces israelii • Clostridium clostridioforme • Eggerthella lenta • Finegoldia ( Peptostreptococcus ) magna • Micromonas ( Peptostreptococcus ) micros • Prevotella bivia • Prevotella intermedia • Propionibacterium acnes Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE products are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE products are also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis , as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : Lower respiratory tract infections including pneumonia , empyema , and lung abscess caused by anaerobes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , other streptococci ( except E . faecalis ) , and Staphylococcus aureus .
Skin and skin structure infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , Staphylococcus aureus , and anaerobes .
Gynecological infections including endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis , and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection caused by susceptible anaerobes .
Intra - abdominal infections including peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess caused by susceptible anaerobic organisms .
Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci ( except Enterococcus faecalis ) , and susceptible anaerobes .
Bone and joint infections including acute hematogenous osteomyelitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus and as adjunctive therapy in the surgical treatment of chronic bone and joint infections due to susceptible organisms .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE and other antibacterial drugs , CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin .
WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING .
Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Anaphylactic and Severe Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reactions have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , some with fatal outcome , have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In case of such an anaphylactic or severe hypersensitivity reaction , discontinue treatment permanently and institute appropriate therapy .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity in Pediatric Patients ( " Gasping Syndrome " ) This product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events , including the " gasping syndrome " , and death in pediatric patients .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the " gasping syndrome " , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys ' capacity to detoxify the chemical .
Premature and low birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Usage in Meningitis Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When clindamycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE products should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Certain infections may require incision and drainage or other indicated surgical procedures in addition to antibiotic therapy .
The use of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms - particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should not be injected intravenously undiluted as a bolus , but should be infused over at least 10 – 60 minutes as directed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Clindamycin dosage modification may not be necessary in patients with renal disease .
In patients with moderate to severe liver disease , prolongation of clindamycin half - life has been found .
However , it was postulated from studies that when given every eight hours , accumulation should rarely occur .
Therefore , dosage modification in patients with liver disease may not be necessary .
However , periodic liver enzyme determinations should be made when treating patients with severe liver disease .
Prescribing CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Clindamycin is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4 , and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5 , to the major metabolite clindamycin sulfoxide and minor metabolite N - desmethylclindamycin .
Therefore , inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 may increase plasma concentrations of clindamycin and inducers of these isoenzymes may reduce plasma concentrations of clindamycin .
In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors , monitor for adverse reactions .
In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin , monitor for loss of effectiveness .
In vitro studies indicate that clindamycin does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2E1 or CYP2D6 and only moderately inhibits CYP3A4 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 1 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters , has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 1 and 1 . 1 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 5 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m 2 , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution contains benzyl alcohol .
Benzyl alcohol can cross the placenta .
See WARNINGS .
Nursing Mothers Limited published data based on breast milk sampling reports that clindamycin appears in human breast milk in the range of less than 0 . 5 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL at dosages of 150 mg orally to 600 mg intravenously .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
If oral or intravenous clindamycin is required by a nursing mother , it is not a reason to discontinue breastfeeding , but an alternate drug may be preferred .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use When CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Usage in Newborns and Infants This product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
See WARNINGS .
The potential for the toxic effect in the pediatric population from chemicals that may leach from the single dose premixed IV preparation in plastic has not been evaluated .
See WARNINGS .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Infections and Infestations : Clostridium difficile colitis Gastrointestinal : Antibiotic - associated colitis ( see WARNINGS ) , pseudomembranous colitis , abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
An unpleasant or metallic taste has been reported after intravenous administration of the higher doses of clindamycin phosphate .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy .
Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions .
Severe skin reactions such as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis , some with fatal outcome , have been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Cases of Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) , erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have been associated with clindamycin .
Anaphylactic shock , anaphylactic reaction and hypersensitivity have also been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , angioedema and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported ( see Hypersensitivity Reactions ) .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Immune System : Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) cases have been reported .
Local Reactions : Injection site irritation , pain , induration and sterile abscess have been reported after intramuscular injection and thrombophlebitis after intravenous infusion .
Reactions can be minimized or avoided by giving deep intramuscular injections and avoiding prolonged use of indwelling intravenous catheters .
Musculoskeletal : Polyarthritis cases have been reported .
Cardiovascular : Cardiopulmonary arrest and hypotension have been reported following too rapid intravenous administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
OVERDOSAGE Significant mortality was observed in mice at an intravenous dose of 855 mg / kg and in rats at an oral or subcutaneous dose of approximately 2618 mg / kg .
In the mice , convulsions and depression were observed .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued ( see WARNING box ) .
Clindamycin phosphate IM administration should be used undiluted .
Clindamycin phosphate IV administration should be diluted ( see Dilution for IV use and IV infusion rates below ) .
Adults Parenteral ( IM or IV Administration ) Serious infections due to aerobic gram - positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes ( NOT generally including Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species and Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens ) : 600 – 1200 mg / day in 2 , 3 or 4 equal doses .
More severe infections , particularly those due to proven or suspected Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species , or Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens : 1200 – 2700 mg / day in 2 , 3 or 4 equal doses .
For more serious infections , these doses may have to be increased .
In life - threatening situations due to either aerobes or anaerobes these doses may be increased .
Doses of as much as 4800 mg daily have been given intravenously to adults .
See Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates section below .
Single intramuscular injections of greater than 600 mg are not recommended .
Alternatively , drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous IV infusion as follows : To maintain serum clindamycin levels Rapid infusion rate Maintenance infusion rate Above 4 mcg / mL 10 mg / min for 30 min 0 . 75 mg / min Above 5 mcg / mL 15 mg / min for 30 min 1 . 00 mg / min Above 6 mcg / mL 20 mg / min for 30 min 1 . 25 mg / min Neonates ( less than 1 month ) 15 to 20 mg / kg / day in 3 to 4 equal doses .
The lower dosage may be adequate for small prematures .
Pediatric patients 1 month of age to 16 years Parenteral ( IM or IV ) Administration 20 to 40 mg / kg / day in 3 or 4 equal doses .
The higher doses would be used for more severe infections .
Clindamycin should be dosed based on total body weight regardless of obesity .
As an alternative to dosing on a body weight basis , pediatric patients may be dosed on the basis of square meters body surface : 350 mg / m 2 / day for serious infections and 450 mg / m 2 / day for more severe infections .
Parenteral therapy may be changed to oral CLEOCIN PEDIATRIC ® Flavored Granules ( clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride ) or CLEOCIN HCl ® Capsules ( clindamycin hydrochloride ) when the condition warrants and at the discretion of the physician .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should be continued for at least 10 days .
Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion should not exceed 18 mg per mL .
Infusion rates should not exceed 30 mg per minute .
The usual infusion dilutions and rates are as follows : Dose Diluent Time 300 mg 50 mL 10 min 600 mg 50 mL 20 min 900 mg 50 – 100 mL 30 min 1200 mg 100 mL 40 min Administration of more than 1200 mg in a single 1 - hour infusion is not recommended .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Dilution and Compatibility Physical and biological compatibility studies monitored for 24 hours at room temperature have demonstrated no inactivation or incompatibility with the use of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution ( clindamycin phosphate ) in IV solutions containing sodium chloride , glucose , calcium or potassium , and solutions containing vitamin B complex in concentrations usually used clinically .
No incompatibility has been demonstrated with the antibiotics cephalothin , kanamycin , gentamicin , penicillin or carbenicillin .
The following drugs are physically incompatible with clindamycin phosphate : ampicillin sodium , phenytoin sodium , barbiturates , aminophylline , calcium gluconate , and magnesium sulfate .
The compatibility and duration of stability of drug admixtures will vary depending on concentration and other conditions .
For current information regarding compatibilities of clindamycin phosphate under specific conditions , please contact the Medical and Drug Information Unit , Pharmacia & Upjohn Company ( Division of Pfizer Inc ) .
Physico - Chemical Stability of Diluted Solutions of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Room Temperature 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in dextrose injection 5 % , sodium chloride injection 0 . 9 % , or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini - Bag containers , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25 ° C . Also , 18 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in dextrose injection 5 % , in Mini - Bag containers , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25 ° C . Refrigeration 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in dextrose injection 5 % , sodium chloride injection 0 . 9 % , or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini - Bag containers , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 32 days at 4 ° C . IMPORTANT : This chemical stability information in no way indicates that it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation time .
Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible .
Frozen 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in dextrose injection 5 % , sodium chloride injection 0 . 9 % , or Lactated Ringers Injection in Mini - Bag containers demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least eight weeks at - 10 ° C . Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen .
DIRECTIONS FOR DISPENSING Pharmacy Bulk Package — Not for Direct Infusion The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only under a laminar flow hood .
Entry into the vial should be made with a small diameter sterile transfer set or other small diameter sterile dispensing device , and contents dispensed in aliquots using aseptic technique .
Multiple entries with a needle and syringe are not recommended .
AFTER ENTRY USE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF VIAL PROMPTLY .
ANY UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 24 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution in GALAXY Plastic Container Premixed CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution is for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
Check for minute leaks prior to use by squeezing bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Do not add supplementary medication .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete .
Preparation for Administration : • Suspend container from eyelet support .
• Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
Preparation of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in ADD - Vantage System For IV Use Only .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE 300 mg , 600 mg and 900 mg may be reconstituted in 50 mL ( for 300 mg and 600 mg ) or 100 mL ( for 900 mg ) of dextrose injection 5 % or sodium chloride injection 0 . 9 % in the ADD - diluent container .
Refer to separate instructions for ADD - Vantage System .
HOW SUPPLIED Each mL of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution contains clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 150 mg clindamycin , 0 . 5 mg disodium edetate , 9 . 45 mg benzyl alcohol added as preservative .
When necessary , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE is available in the following packages : 25 - 2 mL vials NDC 0009 - 0870 - 26 25 - 4 mL vials NDC 0009 - 0775 - 26 25 - 6 mL vials NDC 0009 - 0902 - 18 5 - 60 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package NDC 0009 - 0728 - 09 CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE is supplied in ADD - Vantage vials as follows : NDC Vial Size Total Clindamycin Phosphate / vial 0009 - 6582 - 01 25 - 2 mL Vials 300 mg 0009 - 3124 - 03 25 - 4 mL Vials 600 mg 0009 - 3447 - 03 25 - 6 mL Vials 900 mg Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution in GALAXY plastic containers is a sterile solution of clindamycin phosphate with 5 % dextrose .
The single dose GALAXY plastic containers are available as follows : 24 - 300 mg / 50 mL containers NDC 0009 - 3381 - 02 24 - 600 mg / 50 mL containers NDC 0009 - 3375 - 02 24 - 900 mg / 50 mL containers NDC 0009 - 3382 - 02 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
It is recommended that GALAXY plastic containers be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid temperatures above 30 ° C . REFERENCES • Smith RB , Phillips JP : Evaluation of CLEOCIN HCl and CLEOCIN Phosphate in an Aged Population .
Upjohn TR 8147 - 82 - 9122 - 021 , December 1982 .
ADD - Vantage ® is a registered trademark of Hospira Inc .
CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution in GALAXY plastic containers is manufactured for Pfizer Inc by Baxter Healthcare Corporation , Deerfield , IL 60015 .
Galaxy and Mini - Bag are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0044 - 23 . 0 Revised : 1 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE ® clindamycin sterile solution for injection , USP in ADD - Vantage ® Vial For Intravenous Use Only NOT FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE FOR ADD - VANTAGE SYSTEM — FOR IV USE ONLY To Open Diluent Container : Peel overwrap from the corner and remove container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows : • To remove the breakaway vial cap , swing the pull ring over the top of the vial and pull down far enough to start the opening ( SEE FIGURE 1 . )
, then pull straight up to remove the cap .
( SEE FIGURE 2 . )
NOTE : Once the breakaway cap has been removed , DO NOT ACCESS VIAL WITH SYRINGE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • To remove the vial port cover , grasp the tab on the pull ring , pull up to break the three tie strings , then pull back to remove the cover .
( SEE FIGURE 3 . )
• Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no farther .
THE VIAL MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL .
This occurs approximately 1 / 2 turn ( 180 ° ) after the first audible click .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
The clicking sound does not assure a seal ; the vial must be turned as far as it will go .
NOTE : Once the vial is seated , do not attempt to remove it .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
• Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further in the direction of assembly .
• Label appropriately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To Prepare Admixture : • Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial .
• With the other hand , push the drug vial down into the container telescoping the walls of the container .
Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls of the container .
( SEE FIGURE 5 . )
• Pull the inner cap from the drug vial .
( SEE FIGURE 6 . )
Verify that the rubber stopper has been pulled out , allowing the drug and diluent to mix .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Mix container contents thoroughly and use within the specified time .
Preparation for Administration : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • Confirm the activation and admixture of vial contents .
• Check for leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
• Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• Lift the free end of the hanger loop on the bottom of the vial , breaking the two tie strings .
Bend the loop outward to lock it in the upright position , then suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ADD - Vantage ® is a registered trademark of Hospira Inc .
LAB - 0050 - 4 . 0 Revised October 2013 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 600 mg / 4 mL Vial Label 4 mL Vial Cleocin Phosphate ® clindamycin injection , USP 600 mg / 4 mL * ( 150 mg / mL ) For intramuscular or intravenous use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - OUTER PACKAGE NDC 71872 - 7197 - 1 1 x 4 mL Single Dose Vial Cleocin Phosphate ® clindamycin injection , USP 600 mg / 4 mL * ( 150 mg / mL ) For intramuscular or intravenous use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
