Rx only DESCRIPTION : Nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
Each Extended - Release Capsule , for oral administration contains 2 . 5 mg , 6 . 5 mg , or 9 mg of Nitroglycerin .
The inactive ingredients in each capsule are corn starch , ethylcellulose , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , pharmaceutical glaze , sugar , talc , and wax .
Additionally the 2 . 5 mg capsule contains FD & C Blue # 1 , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 40 , D & C Red # 28 ; the 6 . 5 mg capsule contains D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , FD & C Blue # 1 , D & C Red # 33 ; the 9 mg capsule contains D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , FD & C Green # 3 , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates had been absent from the body for several hours was their anti - anginal efficacy restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about 3 minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate , and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( non - vasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 - 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
Reliable assay techniques for plasma nitroglycerin levels have only recently become available , and studies using these techniques to define the pharmacokinetics of oral nitroglycerin preparations have not been reported .
Published studies using older techniques provide results that often differ , in similar experimental settings , by an order of magnitude .
Clinical Trials : Controlled trials of single oral doses of nitroglycerin have demonstrated that nitroglycerin capsules can effectively reduce exercise - related angina for up to 5 hours .
Anti - anginal activity is present about 1 hour after ingestion of a capsule .
Controlled trials of multiple - dose oral nitroglycerin have shown statistically significant anti - anginal efficacy 2 ½ and 4 hours after a dose when oral nitroglycerin had been administered four times a day for 2 weeks or three times a day for 1 week .
As noted above , careful studies with other formulations of nitroglycerin have shown that maintenance of continuous 24 - hour plasma levels of nitroglycerin results in insurmountable tolerance .
Presumably , the studied 1 - week and 2 - week regimens of oral nitroglycerin therapy achieved adequate nitrate - free intervals by non - uniformity of dosing interval , with longer intervals overnight .
The investigators did not report how subjects interpreted their dosing instructions , and they similarly did not report which dose of the day was the one after which they obtained the end - of - trial exercise results .
Thus , these studies of oral nitroglycerin should not be interpreted as demonstrations that these regimens provide round - the - clock anti - anginal protection .
From large , well - controlled studies of other nitroglycerin formulations , it is reasonable to believe that the maximal achievable daily duration of anti - anginal effect from Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules is about 12 hours .
In some controlled trials of other organic nitrate formulations , efficacy has declined with time .
Because the controlled , multiple - dose trials of oral nitroglycerin did not include exercise tests before the last day of treatment , it is not known how the efficacy of Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules may vary during extended therapy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of oral nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
Nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
WARNINGS The benefits of oral nitroglycerin in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use nitroglycerin in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
Because the effects of capsules are so difficult to terminate rapidly , they are not recommended in these settings .
PRECAUTIONS General : Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is somewhat blunted .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Some clinical trials in angina patients have provided nitroglycerin for about 12 continuous hours of every 24 - hour day .
During the nitrate - free intervals in some of these trials , anginal attacks have been more easily provoked than before treatment , and patients have demonstrated hemodynamic rebound and decreased exercise tolerance .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of oral nitroglycerin is not known .
Information for Patients : Daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with nitroglycerin , since loss of headache is likely to be associated with simultaneous loss of anti - anginal efficacy .
Treatment with nitroglycerin may be associated with lightheartedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary , Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Studies to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of Nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Nitroglycerin ' s effect upon reproductive capacity is similarly unknown .
Pregnancy category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin .
It is also not known whether nitroglycerin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or whether it can affect reproductive capacity .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Nitroglycerin Extended - release Capsules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose - related , and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each , daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Allergic reactions to nitroglycerin are also uncommon , and the great majority of those reported have been cases of contact dermatitis or fixed drug eruptions in patients receiving nitroglycerin in ointments or patches .
There have been a few reports of genuine anaphylactoid reactions , and these reactions can probably occur in patients receiving nitroglycerin by any route .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients ; for further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment , see OVERDOSAGE .
Data are not available to allow estimation of the frequency of adverse reactions during treatment with Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects : The ill effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the result of nitroglycerin ' s capacity to induce vasodilation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension , These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which – if any – of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been the subject of controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patients legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity ; however , and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial p02 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : As noted above ( CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) careful studies with other formulations of nitroglycerin have shown that maintenance of continuous 24 - hour plasma levels of nitroglycerin results in tolerance ( i . e . , loss of clinical response ) .
Every dosing regimen for Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules should provide a daily nitrate - free interval to avoid the development of this tolerance .
The minimum necessary length of such an interval has not been defined , but studies with other nitroglycerin formulations have shown that 10 to 12 hours is sufficient .
Large controlled studies with other formulations of nitroglycerin show that no dosing regimen with Nitroglycerin Extended - Release Capsules should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous anti - anginal efficacy per day .
The pharmacokinetics of Nitroglycerin capsules , and the clinical effects of multiple - dose regimens , have not been well studied .
In clinical trials , the initial regimen of Nitroglycerin has been 2 . 5 to 6 . 5 mg three to four times a day , with subsequent upward dose adjustment guided by symptoms and side effects .
In one trial , 5 of the 18 subjects were titrated up to a dose of 26 mg four times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 1738 NDC : 68151 - 1738 - 6 1 CAPSULE in a PACKAGE STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight container , as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by : Distributed by : Time Cap Labs , Inc .
Major Pharmaceuticals 7 Michael Avenue 31778 Enterprise Drive Farmingdale , NY 11735 Livonia , MI 48150 USA Revised March 2005 Nitroglycerin 9 mg capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
