1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % is a prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % should not be administered more than once daily since it has been shown that more frequent administration of prostaglandin analogs may decrease the intraocular pressure lowering effect .
Reduction of the intraocular pressure starts approximately 4 hours after the first administration with maximum effect reached within approximately 8 to 12 hours .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes apart .
One drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing bimatoprost 0 . 3 mg / mL .
Ophthalmic solution containing 0 . 3 mg / mL bimatoprost ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to bimatoprost or to any of the ingredients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Pigmentation .
Pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) and eyelashes can occur .
Iris pigmentation is likely to be permanent .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Eyelash Changes .
Gradual change to eyelashes including increased length , thickness and number of lashes .
Usually reversible .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Pigmentation Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution has been reported to cause changes to pigmented tissues .
The most frequently reported changes have been increased pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) and eyelashes .
Pigmentation is expected to increase as long as bimatoprost is administered .
The pigmentation change is due to increased melanin content in the melanocytes rather than to an increase in the number of melanocytes .
After discontinuation of bimatoprost , pigmentation of the iris is likely to be permanent , while pigmentation of the periorbital tissue and eyelash changes have been reported to be reversible in some patients .
Patients who receive treatment should be informed of the possibility of increased pigmentation .
The long term effects of increased pigmentation are not known .
Iris color change may not be noticeable for several months to years .
Typically , the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the periphery of the iris and the entire iris or parts of the iris become more brownish .
Neither nevi nor freckles of the iris appear to be affected by treatment .
While treatment with bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % can be continued in patients who develop noticeably increased iris pigmentation , these patients should be examined regularly .
5 . 2 Eyelash Changes Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % may gradually change eyelashes and vellus hair in the treated eye .
These changes include increased length , thickness , and number of lashes .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
5 . 3 Intraocular Inflammation Prostaglandin analogs , including bimatoprost , have been reported to cause intraocular inflammation .
In addition , because these products may exacerbate inflammation , caution should be used in patients with active intraocular inflammation ( e . g . , uveitis ) .
5 . 4 Macular Edema Macular edema , including cystoid macular edema , has been reported during treatment with bimatoprost ophthalmic solution .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % should be used with caution in aphakic patients , in pseudophakic patients with a torn posterior lens capsule , or in patients with known risk factors for macular edema .
5 . 5 Bacterial Keratitis There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
5 . 6 Contact Lenses Use Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % contains benzalkonium chloride , which may be absorbed by and cause discoloration of soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Pigmentation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Eyelash Changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Intraocular Inflammation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Macular Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] Most common adverse reaction is conjunctival hyperemia ( 45 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn Operating Company LLC at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , the most frequent events associated with the use of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % occurring in approximately 15 % to 45 % of patients , in descending order of incidence , included conjunctival hyperemia , growth of eyelashes , and ocular pruritus .
Approximately 3 % of patients discontinued therapy due to conjunctival hyperemia .
Ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 3 to 10 % of patients , in descending order of incidence , included ocular dryness , visual disturbance , ocular burning , foreign body sensation , eye pain , pigmentation of the periocular skin , blepharitis , cataract , superficial punctate keratitis , periorbital erythema , ocular irritation , and eyelash darkening .
The following ocular adverse events reported in approximately 1 to 3 % of patients , in descending order of incidence , included : eye discharge , tearing , photophobia , allergic conjunctivitis , asthenopia , increases in iris pigmentation , and conjunctival edema .
In less than 1 % of patients , intraocular inflammation was reported as iritis .
Systemic adverse events reported in approximately 10 % of patients were infections ( primarily colds and upper respiratory tract infections ) .
The following systemic adverse events reported in approximately 1 to 5 % of patients , in descending order of incidence , included headaches , abnormal liver function tests , asthenia and hirsutism .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during postapproval use of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The reactions , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , or a combination of these factors , include : abnormal hair growth , asthma - like symptoms , dizziness , dyspnea , eyelid edema , hypersensitivity reaction including signs and symptoms of eye allergy and allergic dermatitis , hypertension , nausea , and periorbital and lid changes including deepening of the eyelid sulcus and skin discoloration ( non - periocular ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % administration in pregnant women .
There is no increase in the risk of major birth defects or miscarriages based on bimatoprost postmarketing experience .
In embryofetal developmental studies , administration of bimatoprost in pregnant mice and rats during organogensis , resulted in abortion and early delivery at oral doses at least 33 times ( mice ) or 94 times ( rats ) the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose ( based on blood area under the curve [ AUC ] levels ) .
These adverse effects were not observed at 2 . 6 times ( mice ) and 47 times ( rats ) the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
In pre / postnatal development studies , administration of bimatoprost to pregnant rats from organogenesis to the end of lactation resulted in reduced gestation length and fetal body weight , and increased fetal and pup mortality at oral doses at least 41 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended clinical dose ( based on blood AUC levels ) .
No adverse effects were observed in rat offspring at exposures estimated at 14 times the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose ( based on blood AUC levels ) .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % should be administered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal development rat study , abortion was observed in pregnant rats administered bimatoprost orally during organogenesis at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 94 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended human ophthalmic dose [ RHOD ] , based on AUC ) .
The No Observed Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) for abortion was 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( estimated at 47 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
No abnormalities were observed in rat fetuses at doses up to 0 . 6 mg / kg / day .
In an embryofetal development mouse study , abortion and early delivery were observed in pregnant mice administered bimatoprost orally during organogenesis at doses greater than or equal to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 33 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
The NOAEL for abortion and early delivery was 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 6 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
No abnormalities were observed in mouse fetuses at doses up to 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 72 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
In a pre / postnatal development study , treatment of pregnant rats with bimatoprost orally from gestation day 7 to lactation day 20 resulted in reduced gestation length , increased late resorptions , fetal deaths , and postnatal pup mortality , and reduced pup body weight at doses greater than or equal to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day .
These effects were observed at exposures at least 41 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC .
The NOAEL for postnatal development and mating performance of the offspring was 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( estimated at 14 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on AUC ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether topical ocular treatment with bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
In animal studies , bimatoprost has been shown to be present in breast milk of lactating rats at an intravenous dose ( i . e . , 1 mg / kg ) 324 times the RHOD ( on a m2g / m basis ) , however no animal data is available at clinically relevant doses .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage in humans .
If overdose with bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % occurs , treatment should be symptomatic .
In oral ( by gavage ) mouse and rat general toxicity studies , doses up to 100 mg / kg / day did not produce any toxicity .
This dose expressed as mg / m2 is at least 70 times higher than the accidental dose of one bottle of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % for a 10 kg child .
11 DESCRIPTION Bimatoprost Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 03 % is a synthetic prostamide analog with ocular hypotensive activity .
Its chemical name is ( Z ) - 7 - [ ( 1 R , 2 R , 3 R , 5 S ) - 3 , 5 - Dihydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 E , 3 S ) - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - phenyl - 1 - pentenyl ] cyclopentyl ] - 5 - N - ethylheptenamide , and its molecular weight is 415 . 58 .
Its molecular formula is C25H37NO4 .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bimatoprost is a powder , which is very soluble in ethyl alcohol and methyl alcohol and slightly soluble in water .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % is a clear , isotonic , colorless , sterile ophthalmic solution with an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsmol / kg .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % contains Active : bimatoprost 0 . 3 mg / mL ; Inactives : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 05 mg / mL ; citric acid ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; and sodium phosphate ; dibasic .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . The pH during its shelf life ranges from 6 . 8 - 7 . 8 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bimatoprost , a prostaglandin analog , is a synthetic structural analog of prostaglandin with ocular hypotensive activity .
It selectively mimics the effects of naturally occurring substances , prostamides .
Bimatoprost is believed to lower intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in humans by increasing outflow of aqueous humor through both the trabecular meshwork and uveoscleral routes .
Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor for glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After one drop of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % was administered once daily to both eyes of 15 healthy subjects for two weeks , blood concentrations peaked within 10 minutes after dosing and were below the lower limit of detection ( 0 . 025 ng / mL ) in most subjects within 1 . 5 hours after dosing .
Mean Cmax and AUC 0 - 24 hr values were similar on days 7 and 14 at approximately 0 . 08 ng / mL and 0 . 09 ng • hr / mL , respectively , indicating that steady state was reached during the first week of ocular dosing .
There was no significant systemic drug accumulation over time .
Distribution Bimatoprost is moderately distributed into body tissues with a steady - state volume of distribution of 0 . 67 L / kg .
In human blood , bimatoprost resides mainly in the plasma .
Approximately 12 % of bimatoprost remains unbound in human plasma .
Elimination Metabolism Bimatoprost is the major circulating species in the blood once it reaches the systemic circulation following ocular dosing .
Bimatoprost then undergoes oxidation , N - deethylation and glucuronidation to form a diverse variety of metabolities .
Excretion Following an intravenous dose of radiolabeled bimatoprost ( 3 . 12 mcg / kg ) to six healthy subjects , the maximum blood concentration of unchanged drug was 12 . 2 ng / mL and decreased with an elimination half - life of approximately 45 minutes .
The total blood clearance of bimatoprost was 1 . 5 L / hr / kg .
Up to 67 % of the administered dose was excreted in the urine while 25 % of the dose was recovered in the feces .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Bimatoprost was not carcinogenic in either mice or rats when administered by oral gavage for 104 weeks at doses of up to 2 mg / kg / day and 1 mg / kg / day respectively ( at least 192 and 291 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , respectively , based on blood AUC levels ) .
Mutagenesis Bimatoprost was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the Ames test , in the mouse lymphoma test , or in the in vivo mouse micronucleus tests .
Impairment of Fertility Bimatoprost did not impair fertility in male or female rats at doses up to 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( at least 103 times the human systemic exposure at the RHOD , based on blood AUC levels ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In clinical studies of patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension with a mean baseline IOP of 26 mmHg , the IOP - lowering effect of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % once daily ( in the evening ) was 7 - 8 mmHg .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Bimatoprost Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 03 % is supplied sterile in white low density polyethylene ophthalmic dispenser bottles and tips with turquoise caps in the following sizes : 2 . 5 mL fill in 6 mL container - NDC 50383 - 908 - 02 5 mL fill in 10 mL container - NDC 50383 - 908 - 05 7 . 5 mL fill in 10 mL container - NDC 50383 - 908 - 07 Storage : Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution should be stored in the original container at 2º to 25ºC ( 36º to 77ºF ) .
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution can be used until the expiration date stamped on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Potential for Pigmentation Advise patients about the potential for increased brown pigmentation of the iris , which may be permanent .
Also inform patients about the possibility of eyelid skin darkening , which may be reversible after discontinuation of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % .
Potential for Eyelash Changes Inform patients of the possibility of eyelash and vellus hair changes in the treated eye during treatment with bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % .
These changes may result in a disparity between eyes in length , thickness , pigmentation , number of eyelashes or vellus hairs , and / or direction of eyelash growth .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
Handling the Container Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , surrounding structures , fingers , or any other surface in order to avoid contamination of the solution by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
When to Seek Physician Advice Advise patients that if they develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , have ocular surgery , or develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and eyelid reactions , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % .
Use with Contact Lenses Advise patients that bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % contains benzalkonium chloride , which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of bimatoprost ophthalmic solution , 0 . 03 % and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
Use with Other Ophthalmic Drugs Advise patients that if more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes between applications .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Lake Forest , IL 60045 Rev . 908 : 02 11 / 20 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN NDC 50383 - 908 - 07 Bimatoprost Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 03 % For Topical Application in the Eye Rx only 7 . 5 mL Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ]
