active ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity rinse Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warning for this product Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 6 years of age and older : use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • remove cap • pour 10 milliliters ( 10 mL mark on the inside of cap ) ; do not fill above the 10 mL mark • vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , menthol , methyl salicylate , flavor , cetylpyridinium chloride , sodium saccharin , poloxamer 407 , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , sodium phosphate , disodium phosphate , calcium disodium EDTA , disodium EDTA , sodium benzoate , potassium sorbate , benzyl alcohol , green 3 , yellow 5 other information • store at room temperature ADA statement The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of ShopRite Anticavity Fluoride Rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce tooth decay , when used as directed .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , distributor of Act Anticavity Fluoride Finse SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND WITH FOR YOUR PROTECTION Adverse reaction We welcome your questions and comments .
Call : 1 - 800 - ShopRite E - Mail : www . shoprite . com Write : Wakefern Food Corp .
Consumer Affairs - P7 - 103 600 York St . Elixabeth , NJ 07207 Please provide product UPC and code stamped on product .
Distributed by Wakenfern Food Corporation , 5000 Riverside Drive , Keasby , NJ 08832 principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in ACT ShopRite Anticavity FLUORIDE RINSE Stromg Cavity Protection Alcohol Free MINT FLAVOR ADA Accepted American Dental Association IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use 18 FL OZ ( 532 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
