Manganese Chloride Injection , USP FOR I . V . USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Plastic Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to intravenous solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL of solution contains 0 . 36 mg manganese chloride , tetrahydrate and 9 mg sodium chloride .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH is 2 . 0 ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 ) ; product may contain hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolarity is 0 . 313 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
Manganese Chloride , USP is chemically designated manganese chloride , tetrahydrate ( MnCl2 • 4H2O ) , a deliquescent , crystalline compound soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white , crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The small amount of water vapor that can pass through the plastic container wall will not significantly alter the drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Manganese is an essential nutrient which serves as an activator for enzymes such as polysaccharide polymerase , liver arginase , cholinesterase and pyruvate carboxylase .
Providing manganese during TPN helps prevent development of deficiency symptoms such as nausea and vomiting , weight loss , dermatitis and changes in growth and color of hair .
Under conditions of minimal intake , 20 mcg manganese / day is retained .
Manganese is bound to a specific transport protein , transmanganin , a beta - l - globulin .
Manganese is widely distributed but concentrates in the mitochondria rich tissues such as brain , kidney , pancreas , and liver .
Assays for manganese in whole blood result in concentrations ranging from 6 to 12 mcg / manganese / liter .
Excretion of manganese occurs mainly through the bile , but in the event of obstruction , ancillary excretion routes include pancreatic juice , or return into the lumen of the duodenum , jejunum , or ileum .
Urinary excretion of manganese is negligible .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration helps to maintain manganese serum levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Direct intramuscular or intravenous injection of Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) is contraindicated as the acidic pH of the solution ( pH 2 . 0 ) may cause considerable tissue irritation .
Liver and / or biliary tract dysfunction may require omission or reduction of copper and manganese doses because these elements are primarily eliminated in the bile .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) should only be used in conjunction with a pharmacy directed admixture program using aseptic technique in a laminar flow environment ; it should be used promptly and in a single operation without any repeated penetrations .
Solution contains no preservatives ; discard unused portion immediately after admixture procedure is completed .
Laboratory Tests Serum manganese levels can be measured periodically at the discretion of the investigator .
Because of the low serum concentration normally present , samples will usually be analyzed by a reference laboratory .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) have not been performed , nor have studies been done to assess mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) additive is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with manganese chloride .
It is also not known whether manganese chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Manganese chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None known .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE Manganese toxicity in TPN patients has not been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) contains 0 . 1 mg manganese / mL and is administered intravenously only after dilution .
The additive should be administered in a volume of fluid not less than 100 mL .
For the adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage for manganese is 0 . 15 to 0 . 8 mg / day ( 1 . 5 to 8 mL / day ) .
For pediatric patients , a dosage of 2 to 10 mcg manganese / kg / day ( 0 . 02 to 0 . 1 mL / kg / day ) is recommended .
Periodic monitoring of manganese plasma levels is suggested as a guideline for subsequent administration .
Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Manganese 0 . 1 mg / mL ( Manganese Chloride Injection , USP ) is supplied in 10 mL Single - dose Plastic Vials .
Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 4091 - 01 Tray of 25 Single - dose plastic vials 1 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1068 - 3 . 0 Revised : 4 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label 10 mL Vial NDC 0409 - 4091 - 11 MANGANESE 1 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Manganese Chloride Inj . , USP FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Rx only Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Tray 10 mL Single - dose NDC 0409 - 4091 - 01 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 4091 - 11 Rx only Manganese 1 mg / 10 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Manganese Chloride Injection , USP CAUTION : FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
