Drug Facts Active ingredient ( To Deliver ) Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • Helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use • For effective relief of itching , cracking , burning , scaling and discomfort Warnings For external use only Extremely Flammable do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes • Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F Stop use and ask doctor if • Irritation occurs • There is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • Shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • Supervise children in the use of this product • pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • Use daily for 4 weeks ; if condition persists longer , ask a doctor • To prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night , or as directed by a doctor ) • This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol , aloe vera leaf , alpha - tocopherol acetate , butylated hydroxytoluene , ceramide NG , dimethicone , eucalyptus oil , isobutane , isododecane , methylal , peppermint oil , tapioca starch , tea tree oil Questions ?
1 - 877 - 674 - 3475 www . Kerasal . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 g Can Label Tolnaftate Antifungal Kerasal ® NEW For Athlete ' s Foot Invisible Powder Spray 5 IN 1 ™ CURES Most Athlete ' s Foot PREVENTS Recurrence RELIEVES Itching , Burning And Scaling NOURISHES Improves Skin Appearance DEODORIZES With Essential Oils Enriched with Natural Tea Tree Oil , Aloe , Ceramides & Vitamin E NET WT 2 . 0 oz ( 56 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
