DESCRIPTION Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution is an otic solution containing Antipyrine , Benzocaine , Oxyquinoline Sulfate , and Anhydrous Glycerin for use in the ear .
The solution congeals at 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) , but returns to normal consistency , unchanged , at room temperature .
Antipyrine is an analgesic with local anesthetic action , it is chemically 2 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - phenyl - 3 - pyrazolin - 5 - one .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Antipyrine occurs as colorless crystals or white powder , has a slightly bitter taste and is soluble in water and alcohol .
Benzocaine is a local anesthetic .
It is chemically ethyl p - aminobenzoate or Benzoic acid , 4 - amino - , ethyl ester .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It occurs as white crystals or white crystalline powder and is slightly soluble in water and soluble in organic solvents .
EACH mL CONTAINS : Actives : Antipyrine 54 mg , Benzocaine 14 mg ; Inactives : Glycerine ( anhydrous ) , Oxyquinoline Sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution combines the hygroscopic property of anhydrous glycerin with the analgesic action of antipyrine and benzocaine to relieve pressure , reduce inflammation and congestion , and to alleviate pain and discomfort in acute otitis media .
Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution does not blanch the tympanic membrane or mask the landmarks and , therefore , does not distort the otoscopic picture .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acute Otitis media of various etiologies - prompt relief of pain and reduction of inflammation in the congestive and serous stages .
- adjuvant therapy during systemic antibiotic administration for resolution of the infection .
Because of the close anatomical relationship of the eustachian tube to the nasal cavity , otitis media is a frequent problem , especially in children in whom the tube is shorter , wider , and more horizontal than in adults .
Removal of Cerumen - facilitates the removal of excessive or impacted cerumen .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The product is contraindicated in any person with hypersensitivity to any of the components or substances related to them .
This product is contraindicated in the presence of spontaneous perforation of the tympanic membrane or discharge .
WARNINGS FOR USE IN EARS ONLY - NOT FOR USE IN EYES Discontinue promptly if sensitization or irritation occurs .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients : Avoid contaminating the dropper with material from the ear , fingers or other source .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long term studies have been conducted .
Pregnancy Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution .
It is also not known whether Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute otitis media : Instill Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution , permitting the solution to run along the wall of the ear canal until it is filled .
Avoid touching the ear with dropper .
Then moisten a cotton pledget with Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution and insert into meatus .
Repeat every one to two hours until pain and congestion are relieved .
Removal of Cerumen : Before : Instill Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution three times daily for two or three days to help detach cerumen from wall of ear canal and facilitate removal .
After : Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution is useful for drying out the ear canal or relieving discomfort .
Before and after removal of cerumen , a cotton pledget moistened with Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution should be inserted into the meatus following instillation .
HOW SUPPLIED Antipyrine and Benzocaine Otic Solution NDC 21695 - 216 - 15 is supplied in a 15 mL light - resistant dropper - bottle with a screwtop bottle cap .
Tamper evident seal on bottle cap .
Do not use if seal is broken .
Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from heat and light .
Protect from freezing .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Boca Pharmacal , Inc .
Coral Springs , FL 33065 www . bocapharmacal . com 1 - 800 - 354 - 8460 Rev . 04 / 09 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
