Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid ( 0 . 5 % ) Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • For the treatment of acne .
• Helps keep skin clear of new acne pimples and blackheads .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply to face with warm water covering the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily , massage gently and rinse • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if excess drying or peeling occurs , reduce application to every other day .
Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first three days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Cocamidopropyl Hydroxysultaine , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Stearic Acid , Propanediol , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Persea Gratissima ( Avocado ) Oil , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Palmitic Acid , Sodium Chloride , Glycerin , Niacinamide , Ceramide NG , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , Myristic Acid , Lauric Acid , Palmitic Acid , Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , Xanthan Gum , Sodium Gluconate , Polydextrose , Dextrin , Amylopectin , Sodium Hydroxide , Citric Acid , Sodium Benzoate , Potassium Sorbate , Phenoxyethanol .
Questions ?
Visit yesto . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Tube Label new !
98 % NATURAL INGREDIENTS yesto ® tomatoes fragrance - free daily clarifying cleanser with 0 . 5 % salicylic acid to fight acne acne treatment VEGAN DERMATOLOGIST TESTED LEAPING BUNNY CERTIFIED 4 fl oz / 118 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
