DESCRIPTION Methazolamide USP , a sulfonamide derivative , is a white or faintly yellow , crystalline powder having a slight odor , soluble in dimethylformamide , slightly soluble in acetone , very slightly soluble in water and in alcohol .
The chemical name for methazolamide is : N - [ 5 - ( aminosulfonyl ) - 3 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 ( 3 H ) - ylidene ] - acetamide and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 25 mg or 50 mg methazolamide USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methazolamide is a potent inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase .
Methazolamide is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Peak plasma concentrations are observed 1 to 2 hours after dosing .
In a multiple - dose , pharmacokinetic study , administration of methazolamide 25 mg bid , 50 mg bid , and 100 mg bid demonstrated a linear relationship between plasma methazolamide levels and methazolamide dose .
Peak plasma concentrations ( C max ) for the 25 mg , 50 mg and 100 mg bid regimens were 2 . 5 mcg / mL , 5 . 1 mcg / mL , and 10 . 7 mcg / mL , respectively .
The area under the plasma concentration - time curves ( AUC ) was 1130 mcg . min / mL , 2571 mcg . min / mL , and 5418 mcg . min / mL for the 25 mg , 50 mg , and 100 mg dosage regimens , respectively .
Methazolamide is distributed throughout the body including the plasma , cerebrospinal fluid , aqueous humor of the eye , red blood cells , bile and extra - cellular fluid .
The mean apparent volume of distribution ( V area / F ) ranges from 17 L to 23 L . Approximately 55 % is bound to plasma proteins .
The steady - state methazolamide red blood cell : plasma ratio varies with dose and was found to be 27 : 1 , 16 : 1 , and 10 : 1 following the administration of methazolamide 25 mg bid , 50 mg bid , and 100 mg bid , respectively .
The mean steady - state plasma elimination half - life for methazolamide is approximately 14 hours .
At steady - state , approximately 25 % of the dose is recovered unchanged in the urine over the dosing interval .
Renal clearance accounts for 20 % to 25 % of the total clearance of drug .
After repeated bid - tid dosing , methazolamide accumulates to steady - state concentrations in 7 days .
Methazolamide ’ s inhibitory action on carbonic anhydrase decreases the secretion of aqueous humor and results in a decrease in intraocular pressure .
The onset of the decrease in intraocular pressure generally occurs within 2 to 4 hours , has a peak effect in 6 to 8 hours and a total duration of 10 to 18 hours .
Methazolamide is a sulfonamide derivative ; however , it does not have any clinically significant antimicrobial properties .
Although methazolamide achieves a high concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid , it is not considered an effective anticonvulsant .
Methazolamide has a weak and transient diuretic effect ; therefore , use results in an increase in urinary volume , with excretion of sodium , potassium , and chloride .
The drug should not be used as a diuretic .
Inhibition of renal bicarbonate reabsorption produces an alkaline urine .
Plasma bicarbonate decreases , and a relative , transient metabolic acidosis may occur due to a disequilibrium in carbon dioxide transport in the red cell .
Urinary citrate excretion is decreased by approximately 40 % after doses of 100 mg every 8 hours .
Uric acid output has been shown to decrease 36 % in the first 24 hour period .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methazolamide tablets are indicated in the treatment of ocular conditions where lowering intraocular pressure is likely to be of therapeutic benefit , such as chronic open - angle glaucoma , secondary glaucoma , and preoperatively in acute angle - closure glaucoma where lowering the intraocular pressure is desired before surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methazolamide tablets therapy is contraindicated in situations in which sodium and / or potassium serum levels are depressed , in cases of marked kidney or liver disease or dysfunction , in adrenal gland failure , and in hyperchloremic acidosis .
In patients with cirrhosis , use may precipitate the development of hepatic encephalopathy .
Long - term administration of methazolamide is contraindicated in patients with angle - closure glaucoma , since organic closure of the angle may occur in spite of lowered intraocular pressure .
WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
If hypersensitivity or other serious reactions occur , the use of this drug should be discontinued .
Caution is advised for patients receiving high - dose aspirin and methazolamide concomitantly , as anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , coma , and death have been reported with concomitant use of high - dose aspirin and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors .
PRECAUTIONS General Potassium excretion is increased initially upon administration of methazolamide and in patients with cirrhosis or hepatic insufficiency could precipitate a hepatic coma .
In patients with pulmonary obstruction or emphysema , where alveolar ventilation may be impaired , methazolamide should be used with caution because it may precipitate or aggravate acidosis .
Information for patients Adverse reactions common to all sulfonamide derivatives may occur : anaphylaxis , fever , rash ( including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , crystalluria , renal calculus , bone marrow depression , thrombocytopenic purpura , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , and agranulocytosis .
Precaution is advised for early detection of such reactions , and the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Caution is advised for patients receiving high - dose aspirin and methazolamide concomitantly .
Laboratory tests To monitor for hematologic reactions common to all sulfonamides , it is recommended that a baseline CBC and platelet count be obtained on patients prior to initiating methazolamide therapy and at regular intervals during therapy .
If significant changes occur , early discontinuance and institution of appropriate therapy are important .
Periodic monitoring of serum electrolytes is also recommended .
Drug interactions Methazolamide should be used with caution in patients on steroid therapy because of the potential for developing hypokalemia .
Caution is advised for patients receiving high - dose aspirin and methazolamide concomitantly , as anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , coma and death have been reported with concomitant use of high - dose aspirin and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( see WARNINGS ) .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of methazolamide and its effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Methazolamide was not mutagenic in the Ames bacterial test .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy category C Methazolamide has been shown to be teratogenic ( skeletal anomalies ) in rats when given in doses approximately 40 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Methazolamide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from methazolamide , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of methazolamide in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions , occurring most often early in therapy , include paresthesias , particularly a “ tingling ” feeling in the extremities ; hearing dysfunction or tinnitus ; fatigue ; malaise ; loss of appetite ; taste alteration ; gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea ; polyuria ; and occasional instances of drowsiness and confusion .
Metabolic acidosis and electrolyte imbalance may occur .
Transient myopia has been reported .
This condition invariably subsides upon diminution or discontinuance of the medication .
Other occasional adverse reactions include urticaria , melena , hematuria , glycosuria , hepatic insufficiency , flaccid paralysis , photosensitivity , convulsions , and , rarely , crystalluria and renal calculi .
Also see PRECAUTIONS : Information for patients for possible reactions common to sulfonamide derivatives .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias ( see WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE No data are available regarding methazolamide overdosage in humans as no cases of acute poisoning with this drug have been reported .
Animal data suggest that even a high dose of methazolamide is nontoxic .
No specific antidote is known .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and central nervous system effects might be expected to occur .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
Supportive measures may be required to restore electrolyte and pH balance .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The effective therapeutic dose administered varies from 50 mg to 100 mg two or three times daily .
The drug may be used concomitantly with miotic and osmotic agents .
HOW SUPPLIED Methazolamide Tablets USP 25 mg : White to off - white , circular , biconvex , uncoated tablet , debossed with “ 25 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 42571 - 239 - 90 Bottles of 500 NDC 42571 - 239 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 42571 - 239 - 10 Methazolamide Tablets USP 50 mg : White to off - white , circular , biconvex , uncoated tablet , debossed with “ 50 ” on one side and score line on the other side .
Bottles of 90 NDC 42571 - 240 - 90 Bottles of 500 NDC 42571 - 240 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 42571 - 240 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Rx only Manufactured by : Micro Labs Limited Goa - 403 722 , INDIA .
Manufactured for : Micro Labs USA Inc .
Basking Ridge , NJ 07920 Revised : November 2019 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42571 - 239 - 90 Methazolamide Tablets USP 25 mg Rx Only 90 Tablets MICRO LABS [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 42571 - 240 - 90 Methazolamide Tablets USP 50 mg Rx Only 90 Tablets MICRO LABS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
