Rx only DESCRIPTION Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup is a clear , light pink syrup with a butterscotch flavor .
Each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) contains : Brompheniramine Maleate , USP .................
2 mg Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride , USP ........ 30 mg Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide , USP ......
10 mg Alcohol 0 . 95 % v / v In a palatable , aromatic vehicle .
Inactive Ingredients : alcohol , artificial butterscotch flavor , citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sucrose , and FD & C Red No . 40 .
It may contain 10 % citric acid solution or 10 % sodium citrate solution for pH adjustment .
The pH range is between 3 . 0 and 6 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Antihistamine / Nasal Decongestant / Antitussive syrup for oral administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Brompheniramine maleate is a histamine antagonist , specifically an H1 - receptor - blocking agent belonging to the alkylamine class of antihistamines .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for receptor sites on effector cells .
Brompheniramine also has anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative effects .
Among the antihistaminic effects , it antagonizes the allergic response ( vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , increased mucus secretion ) of nasal tissue .
Brompheniramine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , with peak plasma concentration after single , oral dose of 4 mg reached in 5 hours ; urinary excretion is the major route of elimination , mostly as products of biodegradation ; the liver is assumed to be the main site of metabolic transformation .
Pseudoephedrine acts on sympathetic nerve endings and also on smooth muscle , making it useful as a nasal decongestant .
The nasal decongestant effect is mediated by the action of pseudoephedrine on α - sympathetic receptors , producing vasoconstriction of the dilated nasal arterioles .
Following oral administration , effects are noted within 30 minutes with peak activity occurring at approximately one hour .
Dextromethorphan acts centrally to elevate the threshold for coughing .
It has no analgesic or addictive properties .
The onset of antitussive action occurs in 15 to 30 minutes after administration and is of long duration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms , including nasal congestion , associated with allergy or the common cold .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Do not use in the newborn , in premature infants , in nursing mothers , or in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease .
Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAOI ) inhibitors ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract conditions including asthma .
WARNINGS Especially in infants and small children , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , and death .
Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness .
In the young child , they may produce excitation .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of its antihistamine component , Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , narrow angle glaucoma , gastrointestinal obstruction , or urinary bladder neck obstruction .
Because of its sympathomimetic component , Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup should be used with caution in patients with diabetes , hypertension , heart disease , or thyroid disease .
Information for Patients Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness , such as driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Drug Interactions Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors Hyperpyrexia , hypotension , and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of MAO inhibitors and products containing dextromethorphan .
In addition , MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines and may enhance the effect of pseudoephedrine .
Concomitant administration of Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup and MAO inhibitors should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Central Nervous System ( CNS ) depressants Antihistamines have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , antianxiety agents , etc . ) .
Antihypertensive drugs Sympathomimetic may reduce the effects of antihypertensive drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies of Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup to assess the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been performed .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup .
It is also not known whether Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
It should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Reproduction studies of brompheniramine maleate ( a component of Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup ) in rats and mice at doses up to 16 times the maximum human doses have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of intolerance of antihistamines in small infants generally , and in newborns and prematures in particular , Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup are : sedation ; dryness of mouth , nose and throat ; thickening of bronchial secretions ; dizziness .
Other adverse reactions may include : Dermatologic : Urticaria , drug rash , photosensitivity , pruritus .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , hypertension , cardiac arrhythmias , palpitation .
CNS : Disturbed coordination , tremor , irritability , insomnia , visual disturbances , weakness , nervousness , convulsions , headache , euphoria , and dysphoria .
G . U . System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination .
G . I . System : Epigastric discomfort , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Respiratory System : Tightness of chest and wheezing , shortness of breath .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Central nervous system effects from overdosage of brompheniramine may vary from depression to stimulation , especially in children .
Anticholinergic effects may be noted .
Toxic doses of pseudoephedrine may result in CNS stimulation , tachycardia , hypertension , and cardiac arrhythmias ; signs of CNS depression may occasionally be seen .
Dextromethorphan in toxic doses will cause drowsiness , ataxia , nystagmus , opisthotonos , and convulsive seizures .
Toxic Doses Data suggest that individuals may respond in an unexpected manner to apparently small amounts of a particular drug .
A 2 ½ - year - old child survived the ingestion of 21 mg / kg of dextromethorphan exhibiting only ataxia , drowsiness , and fever , but seizures have been reported in 2 children following the ingestion of 13 mg / kg to 17 mg / kg .
Another 2 ½ - year - old child survived a dose of 300 mg to 900 mg of brompheniramine .
The toxic dose of pseudoephedrine should be less than that of ephedrine , which is estimated to be 50 mg / kg .
Treatment Induce emesis if patient is alert and is seen prior to 6 hours following ingestion .
Precautions against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and small children .
Gastric lavage may be carried out , although in some instances tracheostomy may be necessary prior to lavage .
Naloxone hydrochloride 0 . 005 mg / kg intravenously may be of value in reversing the CNS depression that may occur from an overdose of dextromethorphan .
CNS stimulants may counter CNS depression .
Should CNS hyperactivity or convulsive seizures occur , intravenous short - acting barbiturates may be indicated .
Hypertensive responses and / or tachycardia should be treated appropriately .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and over : 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) every 4 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) every 4 hours .
Children 2 to under 6 years of age : 2 . 5 mL ( ½ teaspoonful ) every 4 hours .
Infants 6 months to under 2 years of age : Dosage to be established by a physician .
Do not exceed 6 doses during a 24 - hour period .
HOW SUPPLIED Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup is a clear , light pink - colored , butterscotch - flavored syrup containing in each 5 mL ( 1 teaspoonful ) brompheniramine maleate 2 mg , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride 30 mg and dextromethorphan hydrobromide 10 mg , available in the following sizes : 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) : NDC 0574 - 1104 - 04 1 Pint ( 473 mL ) : NDC 0574 - 1104 - 16 RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep Tightly Closed Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Rx Only Manufactured By Perrigo Minneapolis , MN 55427 2202942 0U400 RC J1 Rev 04 - 14 A PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 118 mL Rx Only NDC 0574 - 1104 - 04 Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup Alcohol 0 . 95 % v / v 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 473 mL Rx Only NDC 0574 - 1104 - 16 Brompheniramine Maleate , Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Syrup Alcohol 0 . 95 % v / v Do Not Use if Inner Seal Printed “ Sealed For Your Protection ” is Broken or Missing .
This container is not intended for household use .
1 Pint ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
