SPL UNCLASSIFIED ACTIDOSE ® WITH SORBITOL ACTIDOSE ® - AQUA ACTIVATED CHARCOAL SUSPENSION DESCRIPTION Actidose ® with Sorbitol : Actidose ® with Sorbitol , ready - to - use activated charcoal suspension with sorbitol , contains 25 gm or 50 gm of activated charcoal , and 48 gm or 96 gm of sorbitol , respectively , in an aqueous suspension with a unique preservative system .
Each milliliter contains 208 mg ( 0 . 208 gm ) of activated charcoal and 400 mg ( 0 . 400 gm ) of sorbitol .
Sorbitol reduces the gritty sensation associated with activated charcoal , imparts a sweet taste which enhances patient compliance , and usually produces a cathartic effect .
Actidose ® - Aqua : Actidose ® - Aqua , ready - to - use activated charcoal suspension , contains 15 gm , 25 gm or 50 gm of activated charcoal in an aqueous suspension with a unique preservative system .
Each milliliter contains 208 mg ( 0 . 208 gm ) of activated charcoal .
WARNINGS If patient has been given ipecac syrup , DO NOT give ACTIDOSE ® WITH SORBITOL or ACTIDOSE ® - AQUA until after last vomiting episode .
Do not use in persons who are not fully conscious .
Do not use this product unless directed by a health professional , if turpentine , corrosives , such as alkalies ( lye ) and strong acids , or petroleum distillates , such as kerosene , gasoline , paint thinner , cleaning fluid or furniture polish , have been ingested .
This product is not recommended for use in children weighing less than 32 kg , or during multiple dose activated charcoal therapy since excessive catharsis and significant fluid and electrolyte abnormalities may occur .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Do not use Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua in any person known to have a rare autosomal recessive genetic intolerance to fructose .
Do not use Actidose ® with Sorbitol in patients who are dehydrated .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol may cause excessive diarrhea .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Activated Charcoal : Activated charcoal is produced by pyrolysis of organic material , such as wood , and an activation process which cleanses and fragments the charcoal by exposure to an oxidizing gas compound of steam , oxygen , and acids at high temperatures resulting in increased surface area through the creation of numerous external and internal pores .
These pores serve as reservoirs to adsorb substances admixed with activated charcoal , making it a useful adsorbent for specified toxins .
Activated charcoal is pharmacologically inert and is not absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract .
Activated charcoal will adsorb a variety of organic and inorganic substances , but is especially effective in adsorbing compounds within a molecular weight range of 100 to 1 , 000 Daltons ( AMU ’ s ) . 1 Several other physiologic and physicochemical factors influence the adsorptive capacity of activated charcoal including : pH , charcoal : drug ratio , gastric contents , and adsorption kinetics . 2 Much of the published scientific literature which studied the adsorptive capacity of activated charcoal was conducted using in vitro models .
A considerable amount of the research may be invalid since the effects of physiologic pH were not taken into consideration or held constant .
Using research models which simulate the gastric environment , some toxins were not adsorbed by activated charcoal .
This data was inappropriately extended to imply that activated charcoal did not adsorb a toxin and therefore had no efficacy in the management of that type of poisoning incident .
However , the research failed to consider that the increased pH of the small intestine provides a receptive environment for the adsorption of the toxin by activated charcoal .
Activated charcoal will effectively adsorb acidic , alkaline and neutral substances ( not to suggest use of activated charcoal in poisonings caused by corrosive agents2 ) .
The extent of adsorption will be dependent upon the relative solubility of the drug at a specified pH . The optimal dosage ratio of activated charcoal to toxin is described as 10 : 1 . 3 , 4 , 17 , 18 Numerous factors contribute to and interfere with adsorptive capacity , therefore , the 10 : 1 ratio may not be valid in the clinical setting .
Furthermore , a primary application of activated charcoal is in adult patients who have intentionally ingested a toxin for drug abuse or suicidal purposes .
These patients may not freely provide information about the substance or amount ingested , or have a decreased level of consciousness .
Under these conditions it is difficult to determine the ingestion history , making it impractical to use the 10 : 1 ratio .
The 10 : 1 ratio is also impractical when large amounts of toxin have been ingested ( i . e . , an overdose of 50 gm of aspirin would then require 500 gm [ 1 . 1 lbs . ]
of activated charcoal ) .
Gastric contents may also compete with ingested toxins and compromise the adsorption of the toxins by activated charcoal . 2 If activated charcoal is to be administered to a patient known to have ingested a large meal in close proximity to the time of treatment , a larger dose of activated charcoal may be appropriate .
Under appropriate physiologic conditions activated charcoal adsorbs toxins instantaneously .
This adsorptive process is reversible and an equilibrium between free and bound toxin will exist .
According to the law of mass action the amount of free drug decreases as the dose of activated charcoal increases .
Therefore , large doses of activated charcoal can favor the equilibrium toward greater toxin adsorption and efficacy .
There is limited evidence that desorption of a toxin from activated charcoal may occur . 19 Therefore , there is a potential for toxin readsorption and enhanced toxicity .
The current standard of care is to administer a cathartic with single doses of activated charcoal to hasten the elimination of the toxin / activated charcoal complex from the gastrointestinal tract . 5 Cathartics should be used with extreme care during multiple dose activated charcoal therapy and it is not recommended to use a cathartic with each dose of activated charcoal . 5 Sorbitol : Sorbitol is a hexahydric sugar alcohol which primarily serves as an osmotic cathartic in Actidose ® with Sorbitol . 6 A secondary advantage of using sorbitol is as a palatability enhancer to decrease the innate gritty texture of activated charcoal and to provide a sweet vehicle to increase patient compliance .
Sorbitol is poorly absorbed during its transit through the gastrointestinal tract .
Absorbed sorbitol is metabolized by the liver and slowly converted to fructose .
Insulin is not necessary for intracellular transport of sorbitol , therefore customary cathartic doses can be safely used by patients with diabetes mellitus .
As a hyperosmotic cathartic sorbitol produces a hygroscopic action resulting in increased water in the large intestine and increased intraluminal pressure which stimulates catharsis .
Studies have been conducted in healthy adult human volunteers using therapeutic amounts of activated charcoal and sorbitol . 8 , 9 Catharsis of activated charcoal occurred in an average of 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 hours and persisted for 8 - 12 hours .
Fourteen poisoned patients are reported in one series representing a wide range of toxins and dosages of sorbitol resulting in the onset of catharsis in an average of 7 . 7 hours . 10 The onset of action may be expected to be longer in patients who have ingested toxins which decrease bowel motility , such as pharmacological agents and plants with anticholinergic properties , and drugs like narcotics . 20 Sorbitol does not compromise the adsorptive capacity of activated charcoal . 11 , 12 INDICATIONS & USAGE Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua should be used in a supervised medical facility or under the direction of a physician or poison control center .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua are indicated in the management of many types of poisoning emergencies when a toxin has been ingested or when indicated for a limited number of systemic poisonings resulting from parenteral overdosage or when the toxin has been totally absorbed .
If physiologic conditions are optimal , activated charcoal most effectively adsorbs toxins with a molecular weight of 100 - 1 , 000 Daltons ( AMU ’ s ) . 1 Activated charcoal may not be as effective in adsorbing low molecular weight substances such as aliphatic alcohols ( methanol , isopropanol , ethanol , etc . ) metals ( iron , lead , mercury , etc . ) and elements such as lithium . 2 .
Two animal studies have demonstrated that very toxic and low molecular weight cyanide compounds are adsorbed by activated charcoal . 21 , 22 The use of activated charcoal in toxic emergencies involving these substances is not contraindicated .
Many poisonings involve multiple substances , therefore , Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua may be effective in adsorbing some or all of the ingested toxins .
Adsorption of a toxin by activated charcoal can occur anywhere in the gastrointestinal tract .
However , to use Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua most effectively it is important to administer it as soon as possible to the victim of an ingested exposure .
The longer the delay between the ingestion of the toxin and administration of activated charcoal , the less effective it will be .
If syrup of ipecac is being used to produce emesis , administration of Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua is customarily delayed until 30 – 60 minutes after conclusion of emesis .
In a study which used syrup of ipecac , 60 ml , activated charcoal did not interfere with the emetic effect of syrup of ipecac . 23 If gastric lavage is being used to facilitate stomach evacuation a single dose of activated charcoal can be administered in the early stages of gastric lavage .
If this technique is utilized , Actidose ® - Aqua , which does not contain sorbitol , should be used .
Upon completion of gastric lavage Actidose ® with Sorbitol can be instilled via the lavage tube .
The only disadvantage to the use of activated charcoal in this fashion is that the gastric lavage returns will be black , thus making it difficult to evaluate what the patient ingested by visual examination .
The primary advantage of this therapy is that activated charcoal can be administered early to the patient .
The convenient packaging of Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua ( except the 15 gm / 72 ml size ) in a squeeze bottle with a tapered nozzle expedites emergency treatment , allowing attachment to a gastric lavage tube and administration of contents .
The most common application of activated charcoal is in acute toxic exposures where Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua can adsorb toxins thereby preventing their absorption .
Activated charcoal can also be used in some toxic emergencies when absorption is complete or exposure was via a parenteral route .
This application usually involves repetitive or multiple doses of activated charcoal .
Multiple doses of activated charcoal may be useful in adsorbing toxins which undergo enterohepatic circulation . 13 Drugs which are subject to biliary secretion such as digitoxin are constantly secreted into the gastrointestinal tract and are reabsorbed resulting in prolonged toxicity .
Frequent doses of activated charcoal can adsorb those toxins thereby preventing their reabsorption and enhancing toxin elimination through the gastrointestinal tract .
Multiple dose activated charcoal is also used in what is termed gastrointestinal dialysis . 14 There are only a limited number of toxins which may be eliminated by this method .
Clinical judgement and the toxin ’ s pharmacokinetic parameters must be considered to determine the applicability of this treatment which is not universally applicable . 24 The toxin passively diffuses along a concentration gradient between blood which is perfusing the gastrointestinal tract and the luminal fluids .
The multiple doses of activated charcoal adsorb the toxin thereby preventing its reabsorption further maximizing the concentration gradient which permits diffusion of even more toxin into the gastric lumen .
Compounds most effectively transferred by this mechanism are lipophilic , uncharged and not excessively bound to proteins .
Phenobarbital and theophylline are examples of toxins which can be eliminated more rapidly by this method . 15 , 16 Actidose ® with Sorbitol should not be used in each dose of the multiple dose activated charcoal regimen unless it is necessary to produce catharsis .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol contains sorbitol which may produce excessive catharsis and resultant fluid and electrolyte problems if used at each dosing interval ( see Precautions ) . 9 , 25 Actidose ® - Aqua should be used at dosage intervals when Actidose ® with Sorbitol is not being used .
CATHARTICS SHOULD BE USED CAUTIOUSLY AND ONLY INTERMITTENTLY DURING MULTIPLE DOSE ACTIVATED CHARCOAL THERAPY .
If catharsis of activated charcoal does not occur following the use of Actidose ® with Sorbitol within 4 - 8 hours , an additional sorbitol dose of 1 . 5 gm / kg may be administered .
Or , if desired , a saline cathartic such as magnesium citrate may be used if the patient ’ s renal function is not impaired .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua are formulated in palatable vehicles which eliminate the need to add additional taste or consistency enhancers .
The use of supplementary chemicals , syrups , or dairy products should be avoided since their addition may compromise the adsorptive capacity of Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known absolute contraindications to the use of activated charcoal , however , it is not an equally effective adsorbent for all toxins .
It should be used with caution , if at all , in patients who have ingested corrosive agents since the activated charcoal may obscure endoscopic visualization of esophageal and gastric lesions produced by the corrosive .
The use of a cathartic with activated charcoal may not be advised if a patient has significant fluid or electrolyte abnormalities .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol should not be used in infants due to the possibility of excessive catharsis .
Young children should not receive cathartic doses of sorbitol unless hospitalized and under the immediate care of a physician .
USE IN CHILDREN Actidose ® with Sorbitol is not recommended in children less than one year of age .
USE IN PREGNANCY OR DURING LACTATION Safe use during pregnancy and lactation has not been established .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua should be used during pregnancy or lactation only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
No teratogenic effects have been noted in rabbits or rats .
PRECAUTIONS Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua should be used in a supervised medical facility or under the direction of a physician or poison control center .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua are adjuncts in the management of poisoning emergencies .
Prior to the use of activated charcoal , proper basic life support measures must be implemented as well as the appropriate gastric emptying technique if indicated .
When Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua are used to treat a poisoning emergency , the patient and health care providers should be aware that activated charcoal will produce black stools .
These stools may be diarrhetic and may persist for several hours .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol may produce a profound cathartic effect and proper attention should be given to the patient ’ s fluid and electrolyte needs .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol should be used cautiously in patients receiving multiple dose activated charcoal .
If Actidose ® with Sorbitol is used at each dosage interval , profound catharsis may develop which could result in dehydration , hypotension and significant electrolyte and fluid abnormalities .
A study conducted in healthy adult human volunteers who ingested therapeutic amounts of activated charcoal and sorbitol resulted in severe prolonged diarrhea , but no significant changes were noted in serum electrolytes or osmolality , BUN , or the metabolic profile as compared to the control . 8 Gastrointestinal obstruction from activated charcoal may occur as a consequence of toxin - induced antiperistaltic effects .
Actidose ® with Sorbitol and Actidose ® - Aqua should be used cautiously in patients who have been exposed to toxins which interfere with gastrointestinal tract peristalsis ( i . e . , anticholinergics , opioids , etc . ) .
Bowel sounds should be frequently monitored to assess peristaltic action , especially in patients undergoing multiple dose activated charcoal therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Activated charcoal with sorbitol has produced severe hypernatremic dehydration when used in excessive amounts in pediatric patients . 25 , 27 Aspiration of activated charcoal has been reported to produce airway obstruction and a limited number of fatalities have occurred .
28 , 29 , 30 , 31 Bronchiolitis obliterans resulting in death has developed several weeks after the aspiration of activated charcoal . 32 Gastrointestinal obstruction associated with the use of multiple dose activated charcoal therapy has been reported . 33 An overdose of carbamazepine was responsible for the antiperistaltic effects which led to bowel obstruction .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Prior to administration of Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua , shake the container thoroughly for a minimum of 30 seconds .
After administration of either Actidose ® with Sorbitol or Actidose ® - Aqua , the container should be thoroughly rinsed with water and any residue should be administered to the patient to ensure that the entire dose has been delivered .
Single Dose - Actidose ® - Aqua [ MULTIMEDIA ] Single Dose - Actidose ® with Sorbitol [ MULTIMEDIA ] Multiple Dose - Actidose ® - Aqua [ MULTIMEDIA ] Multiple Dose - Actidose ® with Sorbitol [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED ACTIDOSE - AQUA is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1200 - 1 25 grams ACTIVATED CHARCOAL TUBE HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufactures dosage forms [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] REFERENCES 1 .
Activated Charcoal , Antidotal and Other Medicinal Uses , Marcel Dekker , New York , 1980 .
2 .
Clinical Pharmacokinetics .
1982 ; 7 : 465 - 489 .
3 .
Handbook of Common Poisonings in Children , American Academy of Pediatrics , Evanston , 1983 .
4 .
Am J Emerg Med .
1985 ; 3 : 280 - 283 .
5 .
Poisindex Information System , Micromedix , Denver , 1991 .
6 .
J Pediatrics .
1981 ; 98 : 157 - 158 .
7 .
Diabetes Care .
1978 ; 1 : 223 - 230 .
8 .
Clinical Toxicology .
1985 ; 22 : 529 - 536 .
9 .
Ann .
Emerg .
Med .
1985 ; 14 : 1152 - 1155 .
10 .
Clinical Toxicology .
1985 ; 23 : 579 - 587 .
11 .
J . Pharmacol .
Exp .
Ther .
1982 ; 221 : 656 - 663 .
12 .
Am .
J . Hosp .
Pharm .
1978 , 35 : 1355 - 1359 .
13 .
Lancet .
1981 ; 2 : 1177 - 1178 .
14 .
NEJM .
1982 ; 307 : 676 - 678 .
15 .
NEJM .
1982 ; 307 : 642 - 644 .
16 .
Clin .
Pharmacol .
Therap .
1983 ; 34 : 663 - 666 .
17 .
Medical Toxicology .
New York , Elsevier , 1988 .
18 .
Clinical Management of Poisoning and Drug Overdose .
Philadelphia , W . B . Saunders Co . , 1990 .
19 .
Arch Intern Med .
1987 ; 147 : 1390 - 1392 .
20 .
Clin Toxicol .
1989 ; 27 : 91 - 99 .
21 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1988 ; 17 : 595 - 598 .
22 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1990 ; 19 : 453 .
23 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1987 ; 16 : 164 - 166 .
24 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1991 ; 20 : 529 - 531 .
25 .
J . Pediatrics .
1986 ; 109 : 719 - 722 .
26 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1986 ; 15 : 1214 - 1218 .
27 .
J . Pediatrics .
1988 ; 112 : 333 .
28 .
Vet Hum Toxicol .
1989 ; 31 : 335 .
29 .
B Med J . 1988 ; 297 : 459 - 460 .
30 .
NCMJ .
1990 ; 51 : 79 - 80 .
31 .
Ann Emerg Med .
1981 ; 10 : 528 - 529 .
32 .
Chest .
1989 ; 96 : 672 - 674 .
33 .
J Emerg Med .
1986 ; 4 : 401 - 407 .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 2122016 ( 04 - 12 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - TUBE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED TUBE LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
