SPL UNCLASSIFIED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine drug having the chemical name 2 - ( Diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethylethylamine hydrochloride .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder , is freely soluble in water and alcohol and has a molecular weight of 291 . 82 .
The molecular formula is C17H21NO • HCl and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the parenteral form is a sterile , pyrogen - free solution available in a concentration of 50 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride per mL for intramuscular or intravenous use .
The solution for parenteral use has been adjusted to a pH between 4 and 6 . 5 with either sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative side effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form has a rapid onset of action .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is widely distributed throughout the body , including the CNS .
A portion of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine , while the rest is metabolized via the liver .
Detailed information on the pharmacokinetics of Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Injection is not available .
INDICATIONS & uSAGE Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form is effective in adults and pediatric patients , other than premature infants and neonates , for the following conditions when diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the oral form is impractical .
Antihistaminic : For amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma , in anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute symptoms have been controlled , and for other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated .
Motion sickness : For active treatment of motion sickness .
Antiparkinsonism : For use in parkinsonism , when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated , as follows : parkinsonism in the elderly who are unable to tolerate more potent agents ; mild cases of parkinsonism in other age groups , and in other cases of parkinsonism in combination with centrally acting anticholinergic agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use in Neonates or Premature Infants : This drug should not be used in neonates or premature infants .
Use in Nursing Mothers : Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally , and for neonates and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Use as a Local Anesthetic : Because of the risk of local necrosis , this drug should not be used as a local anesthetic .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , or bladder - neck obstruction .
Local necrosis has been associated with the use of subcutaneous or intradermal use of intravenous diphenhydramine .
Use in Pediatric Patients : In pediatric patients , especially , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
As in adults , antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in pediatric patients .
In the young pediatric patient , particularly , they may produce excitation .
Use in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) : Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS General : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has an atropine - like action and , therefore , should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease or hypertension .
Use with caution in patients with lower respiratory disease including asthma .
Information for Patients : Patients taking diphenhydramine hydrochloride should be advised that this drug may cause drowsiness and has an additive effect with alcohol .
Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Drug Interactions : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc ) .
MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to determine mutagenic and carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 5 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Diphenhydramine should not be used in neonates and premature infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Diphenhydramine may diminish mental alertness , or in the young pediatric patient , cause excitation .
Overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death ( see WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ) .
See also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are underscored : 1 .
General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose , and throat .
2 .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
3 .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
4 .
Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , neuritis , convulsions .
5 .
GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
6 .
GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
7 .
Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest or throat and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
OVERDOSAGE Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in pediatric patients .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms ; dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION THIS PRODUCT IS FOR INTRAVENOUS OR INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION ONLY .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form is indicated when the oral form is impractical .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Pediatric Patients , other than premature infants and neonates : 5 mg / kg / 24 hr or 150 mg / m2 / 24 hr .
Maximum daily dosage is 300 mg .
Divide into four doses , administered intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg / min , or deep intramuscularly .
Adults : 10 mg to 50 mg intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg / min , or deep intramuscularly , 100 mg if required ; maximum daily dosage is 400 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCI INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1218 - 1 DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCI INJECTION , USP 50 mg / mL 1 mL CARP HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufactures dosage forms Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is available as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carpuject ™ Single - use cartridges with Luer Lock are packaged in a Slim - Pak ™ tamper detection package .
Note that a needle is not included .
Instructions for Use of the Syringe Systems Instructions for using the Carpuject ™ Syringe are available with the reusable Carpuject ™ Holder , List 2049 - 02 .
Carpuject ™ Single - use cartridges are to be used ONLY with Carpuject ™ Holders , List 2049 - 02 .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing and light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1300 - 1 . 0 Revised : 04 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Carpuject Cartridge Label 1 mL Single - use Carpuject ™ Sterile Cartridge Unit with Luer Lock DiphenhydrAMINE HCl Injection , USP 50 mg / mL For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use Rx only HIGH POTENCY PROTECT FROM LIGHT Hospira NDC 0409 - 2290 - 03 RL – 5589 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED 1 mL Carpuject Cartridge Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
