SPL UNCLASSIFIED Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION These products are sterile , nonpyrogenic solutions each containing isotonic concentrations of electrolytes ( with or without dextrose ) in water for injection .
The solutions containing dextrose and electrolytes are hypertonic ; those containing only electrolytes are isotonic .
They are administered by intravenous infusion for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without minimal carbohydrate calories .
Each 100 mL of Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP contains sodium chloride 600 mg , sodium lactate , anhydrous 310 mg , potassium chloride 30 mg and calcium chloride , dihydrate 20 mg .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
A liter provides 9 calories ( from lactate ) , sodium ( Na + ) , 130 mEq , potassium ( K + ) 4 mEq , calcium ( Ca + + ) 3 mEq , chloride ( Cl − ) 109 mEq and lactate [ CH3CH ( OH ) COO − ] 28 mEq .
The electrolyte content is isotonic ( 273 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
in relation to the extracellular fluid ( approx .
280 mOsmol / liter ) .
The pH of the solution is 6 . 6 ( 6 . 0 − 7 . 5 ) .
Each 100 mL of Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP contains dextrose , hydrous 5 g plus the same ingredients and mEq values as Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP ( contains only hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment ) .
A liter provides 179 calories ( from dextrose and lactate ) and has a hypertonic osmolar concentration of 525 mOsmol ( calc . )
.
The pH is 4 . 9 ( 4 . 0 − 6 . 5 ) .
The solutions contain no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and each is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
The solutions are parenteral fluid , nutrient and / or electrolyte replenishers .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride , dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2 H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Lactate , USP is chemically designated monosodium lactate [ CH3CH ( OH ) COONa ] , a 60 % aqueous solution miscible in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions inside the plastic container also can leach out certain of their chemical components in very small amounts before the expiration period is attained .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , these solutions provide sources of water and electrolytes with or without minimal carbohydrate calories .
Their electrolyte content resembles that of the principal ionic constituents of normal plasma and the solutions therefore are suitable for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without carbohydrate calories .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Potassium is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
It is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Sodium lactate provides sodium ( Na + ) and lactate ( C3H503 − ) ions .
The lactate anion is in equilibrium with pyruvate and has an alkalizing effect resulting from simultaneous removal by the liver of lactate and hydrogen ions .
In the liver , lactate is metabolized to glycogen which is ultimately converted to carbon dioxide and water by oxidative metabolism .
The sodium ( Na + ) ion combines with bicarbonate ion produced from carbon dioxide of the body and thus retains bicarbonate to combat metabolic acidosis ( bicarbonate deficiency ) .
The normal plasma level of lactate ranges from 0 . 9 to 1 . 9 mEq / liter .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS & USAGE These solutions are indicated for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with or without minimal carbohydrate calories , as required by the clinical condition of the patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing lactate are NOT FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS .
WARNINGS Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered simultaneously through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Solutions which contain potassium should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate ions should be done with great care where there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate ions , as in severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Potassium containing solutions should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ' s Injection , USP , Ringer ' s and Dextrose Injection , USP , Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP or Lactated Ringer ' s and Dextrose Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether these injections can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
These injections should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolarity and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE n the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts , and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open : Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Add Medication Prepare additive port .
Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) Close flow control clamp of administration set .
Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
Suspend container from hanger .
Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED LACTATED RINGER ' S AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1229 - 1 LACTATED RINGER ' S AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 1000 mL BAG NDC 51662 - 1300 - 1 LACTATED RINGER ' S INJECTION , USP 500 mL BAG HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms These solutions are supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : July , 2009 Printed in USA EN - 2203 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , BAG OVERWRAP TO OPEN TEAR AT NOTCH 2 HDPE DO NOT REMOVE FROM OVERWRAP UNTIL READY FOR USE .
AFTER REMOVING THE OVERWRAP , CHECK FOR MINUTE LEAKS BY SQUEEZING CONTAINER FIRMLY .
IF LEAKS ARE FOUND , DISCARD SOLUTION AS STERILITY MAY BE IMPAIRED .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE : ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 25 ° C ) .
AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
SEE INSERT .
98 - 4321 - R14 - 3 / 98 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , LACTATED RINGERS AND DEXTROSE BAG [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , SERIALIZED LACTATED RINGERS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , SERIALIZED LACTED RINGERS AND DEXTROSE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , LATATED RINGERS BAG [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
