1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GEMTESA ® is indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder ( OAB ) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency in adults .
GEMTESA is a beta - 3 adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder ( OAB ) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose is one 75 mg tablet once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Swallow tablet whole with water .
( 2 . 1 ) • Tablet may be crushed and mixed with applesauce .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of GEMTESA is one 75 mg tablet orally , once daily with or without food .
Swallow GEMTESA tablets whole with a glass of water .
In adults , GEMTESA tablets also may be crushed , mixed with a tablespoon ( approximately 15 mL ) of applesauce and taken immediately with a glass of water [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 75 mg , oval , light green , film - coated , debossed with V75 on one side and no debossing on the other side .
Tablets : 75 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS GEMTESA is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vibegron or any components of the product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Do not use if prior hypersensitivity reaction to vibegron or any components of the product .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Urinary Retention : Monitor for urinary retention , especially in patients with bladder outlet obstruction and also in patients taking muscarinic antagonist medications for OAB , in whom the risk of urinary retention may be greater .
If urinary retention develops , discontinue GEMTESA .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Urinary Retention Urinary retention has been reported in patients taking GEMTESA .
The risk of urinary retention may be increased in patients with bladder outlet obstruction and also in patients taking muscarinic antagonist medications for the treatment of OAB .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of urinary retention , particularly in patients with bladder outlet obstruction and patients taking muscarinic antagonist medications for the treatment of OAB .
Discontinue GEMTESA in patients who develop urinary retention [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reaction is described elsewhere in the labeling : • Urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) reported with GEMTESA were headache , urinary tract infection , nasopharyngitis , diarrhea , nausea , and upper respiratory tract infection .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Urovant Sciences , Inc . , at 1 - 833 - 876 - 8268 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of GEMTESA was evaluated in a 12 - week , double - blind , placebo - and active - controlled study ( Study 3003 ) in patients with OAB [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
A total of 545 patients received GEMTESA .
The majority of the patients were Caucasian ( 78 % ) and female ( 85 % ) with a mean age of 60 years ( range 18 to 93 years ) .
Adverse reactions that were reported in Study 3003 at an incidence greater than placebo and in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with GEMTESA are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions , Exceeding Placebo Rate , Reported in ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with GEMTESA 75 mg for up to 12 Weeks in Study 3003 GEMTESA 75 mg n ( % ) Placebo n ( % ) Number of Patients 545 540 Headache 22 ( 4 . 0 ) 13 ( 2 . 4 ) Nasopharyngitis 15 ( 2 . 8 ) 9 ( 1 . 7 ) Diarrhea 12 ( 2 . 2 ) 6 ( 1 . 1 ) Nausea 12 ( 2 . 2 ) 6 ( 1 . 1 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 11 ( 2 . 0 ) 4 ( 0 . 7 ) Other adverse reactions reported in < 2 % of patients treated with GEMTESA included : Gastrointestinal disorders : dry mouth , constipation Investigations : residual urine volume increased Renal and urinary disorders : urinary retention Vascular disorders : hot flush GEMTESA was also evaluated for long - term safety in an extension study ( Study 3004 ) in 505 patients who completed the 12 - week study ( Study 3003 ) .
Of the 273 patients who received GEMTESA 75 mg once daily in the extension study , 181 patients were treated for a total of one year .
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with GEMTESA 75 mg for up to 52 weeks in the long - term extension study , and not already listed above , were urinary tract infection ( 6 . 6 % ) and bronchitis ( 2 . 9 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of vibegron .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse events have been reported in association with vibegron use in worldwide postmarketing experience : Urologic disorders : urinary retention Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus , rash , drug eruption , eczema Gastrointestinal disorders : constipation 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of GEMTESA increases digoxin maximal concentrations ( Cmax ) and systemic exposure as assessed by area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored before initiating and during therapy with GEMTESA and used for titration of the digoxin dose to obtain the desired clinical effect .
Continue monitoring digoxin concentrations upon discontinuation of GEMTESA and adjust digoxin dose as needed .
Digoxin : Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating GEMTESA .
Monitor serum digoxin concentrations to titrate digoxin dose to desired clinical effect .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) End - stage Renal Disease with or without Hemodialysis : Not recommended .
( 8 . 6 ) Severe Hepatic Impairment : Not recommended .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on GEMTESA use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed following administration of vibegron during the period of organogenesis at exposures approximately 275 - fold and 285 - fold greater than clinical exposure at the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA , in rats and rabbits , respectively .
Delayed fetal skeletal ossification was observed in rabbits at approximately 898 - fold clinical exposure , in the presence of maternal toxicity .
In rats treated with vibegron during pregnancy and lactation , no effects on offspring were observed at 89 - fold clinical exposure .
Developmental toxicity was observed in offspring at approximately 458 - fold clinical exposure , in the presence of maternal toxicity .
No effects on offspring were observed at 89 - fold clinical exposure ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies carry some risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal developmental toxicity study , pregnant rats were treated with daily oral doses of 0 , 30 , 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day vibegron during the period of organogenesis ( Days 6 to 20 of gestation ) .
These doses were associated with systemic exposures ( AUC ) 0 - , 9 - , 89 - , 275 - , and 1867 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
No embryo - fetal developmental toxicity was observed at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day .
Treatment with the high dose of 1000 mg / kg / day was discontinued due to maternal toxicity .
In an embryo - fetal developmental toxicity study , pregnant rabbits were treated with daily oral doses of 0 , 30 , 100 , or 300 mg / kg / day vibegron during the period of organogenesis ( Days 7 to 20 of gestation ) .
These doses were associated with systemic exposures ( AUC ) 0 - , 86 - , 285 - , and 898 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
No embryo - fetal developmental toxicity was observed at doses of vibegron up to 100 mg / kg / day .
Maternal toxicity ( decreased food consumption ) , reduced fetal body weight , and an increased incidence of delayed skeletal ossification , were observed at 300 mg / kg / day .
In a pre - and post - natal developmental toxicity study , pregnant or lactating rats were treated with daily oral doses of 0 , 30 , 100 , or 500 mg / kg / day vibegron from day 6 of gestation through day 20 of lactation .
These doses were associated with estimated systemic exposures ( AUC ) 0 - , 9 - , 89 - , and 458 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
No developmental toxicity was observed in F1 offspring at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day .
Maternal toxicity was observed during lactation ( decreased body weight gain ) at doses ≥ 100 mg / kg / day and during gestation ( decreased body weight gain and food consumption ) at 500 mg / kg / day .
Developmental toxicity was observed in F1 offspring ( increased stillborn index , lethality , reduced viability and weaning indices , decreased body weight and body weight gains , low physical development differentiation indices , and effects on sensory function and reflexes ) at 500 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of vibegron in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
When a single oral dose of radiolabeled vibegron was administered to postnatal nursing rats , radioactivity was observed in milk ( see Data ) .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for GEMTESA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from GEMTESA or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data In a lactational transfer study , lactating rats were treated with a single oral dose of 10 mg / kg radiolabeled [ 3 H ] vibegron on postpartum day 10 .
Levels of radioactivity were determined in milk and plasma collected at 1 , 4 , 12 , and 24 after dosing .
The Cmax of total radioactivity in milk and plasma were observed at 9 and 2 hours after dosing , respectively , with a maximum milk - to - plasma concentration ratio of 2 . 2 observed at 12 hours after dosing .
Vibegron elimination from milk showed a similar trend as that from plasma .
The radioactivity concentration in milk at 24 hours after administration was approximately 25 % of the Cmax .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of GEMTESA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 526 patients who received GEMTESA in the clinical studies for OAB with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency , 242 ( 46 % ) were 65 years of age or older , and 75 ( 14 % ) were 75 years of age or older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of GEMTESA have been observed between patients 65 years of age and older and younger adult patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment for GEMTESA is recommended for patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
GEMTESA has not been studied in patients with eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( with or without hemodialysis ) and is not recommended in these patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment for GEMTESA is recommended for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A and B ) .
GEMTESA has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) and is not recommended in this patient population [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no experience with inadvertent GEMTESA overdosage .
In case of suspected overdose , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
11 DESCRIPTION Vibegron is a selective beta - 3 adrenergic agonist .
The chemical name is ( 6 S ) - N - [ 4 - [ [ ( 2 S , 5 R ) - 5 - [ ( R ) - hydroxy ( phenyl ) methyl ] pyrrolidin - 2 - yl ] methyl ] phenyl ] - 4 - oxo - 7 , 8 - dihydro - 6 H - pyrrolo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyrimidine - 6 - carboxamide having a molecular formula of C26H28N4O3 and a molecular weight of 444 . 538 g / mol .
The structural formula of vibegron is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vibegron is a crystalline , white to off - white to tan powder .
GEMTESA tablets , for oral administration contain 75 mg of vibegron and the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The light green film coating contains FD & C Blue No . 2 - aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vibegron is a selective human beta - 3 adrenergic receptor agonist .
Activation of the beta - 3 adrenergic receptor increases bladder capacity by relaxing the detrusor smooth muscle during bladder filling .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vibegron ' s exposure - response relationship and the time course of pharmacodynamic response are not fully characterized .
Blood Pressure In a 4 - week , randomized , placebo - controlled , ambulatory blood pressure study in OAB patients ( n = 200 ) , daily treatment with GEMTESA 75 mg was not associated with clinically significant changes in blood pressure .
Subjects enrolled in this study had a mean age of 59 years and 75 % were female .
Thirty - five percent of subjects had pre - existing hypertension at baseline and 29 % of all subjects were taking at least 1 concomitant antihypertensive medication .
Cardiac Electrophysiology GEMTESA does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent at a single dose 5 . 3 times the approved recommended dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Mean vibegron Cmax and AUC increased in a greater than dose - proportional manner up to 600 mg ( 8 times the approved recommended dosage ) .
Steady state concentrations are achieved within 7 days of once daily dosing .
The mean accumulation ratio ( Rac ) was 1 . 7 for Cmax and 2 . 4 for AUC0 - 24 hr .
Absorption Median vibegron Tmax is approximately 1 to 3 hours .
Oral administration of a 75 mg vibegron tablet crushed and mixed with 15 mL of applesauce resulted in no clinically relevant changes in vibegron pharmacokinetics when compared to administration of an intact 75 mg vibegron tablet .
Effect of Food No clinically significant differences in vibegron pharmacokinetics were observed following administration of a high - fat meal ( 53 % fat , 869 calories [ 32 . 1 g protein , 70 . 2 g carbohydrate , and 51 . 1 g fat ] ) .
Distribution The mean apparent volume of distribution is 6304 liters .
Human plasma protein binding of vibegron is approximately 50 % .
The average blood - to - plasma concentration ratio is 0 . 9 .
Elimination Vibegron has an effective half - life of 30 . 8 hours across all populations .
Metabolism Metabolism plays a minor role in the elimination of vibegron .
CYP3A4 is the predominant enzyme responsible for in vitro metabolism .
Excretion Following a radiolabeled dose , approximately 59 % of the dose ( 54 % as unchanged ) was recovered in feces and 20 % ( 19 % as unchanged ) in urine .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of vibegron were observed based on age ( 18 to 93 years ) , sex , race / ethnicity ( Japanese vs . non - Japanese ) , mild ( eGFR 60 to < 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( eGFR 30 to < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and severe ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment , or moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment .
The effect of more severe renal impairment ( eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) with or without hemodialysis or severe ( Child - Pugh C ) hepatic impairment on vibegron pharmacokinetics was not studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Digoxin : Concomitant administration of vibegron increased digoxin Cmax and AUC by 21 % and 11 % , respectively .
Other Drugs : No clinically significant differences in vibegron pharmacokinetics were observed when used concomitantly with ketoconazole ( P - gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) , diltiazem ( P - gp and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor ) , rifampin ( strong CYP3A4 inducer ) , or tolterodine .
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of the following drugs were observed when used concomitantly with vibegron : tolterodine , tolterodine 5 - hydroxy metabolite , metoprolol , combined oral contraceptive ( ethinyl estradiol , levonorgestrel ) , or warfarin .
In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : Vibegron is a CYP3A4 substrate .
Vibegron did not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 .
Vibegron did not induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
Transporter Systems : Vibegron is a P - gp substrate .
Vibegron did not inhibit P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , MATE1 , or MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenicity was observed in long - term studies conducted in mice and rats treated with daily oral doses of vibegron for approximately 2 years .
In the mouse carcinogenicity study , CD - 1 mice were treated with daily oral doses of vibegron up to 90 mg / kg / day in males and up to 150 mg / kg / day in females , corresponding to estimated systemic exposures ( AUC ) 21 - and 55 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
In the rat carcinogenicity study , Sprague Dawley rats were treated with daily oral doses of vibegron up to 30 mg / kg / day in males and up to 180 mg / kg / day in females , corresponding to systemic exposures ( AUC ) 18 - and 117 - fold higher , respectively , than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
Mutagenesis Vibegron was not mutagenic in in vitro microbial reverse mutation assays , showed no evidence of genotoxic activity in an in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay , and did not increase the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in an in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility In fertility / general reproductive toxicity studies conducted in rats , females were treated with daily oral doses of 0 , 30 , 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day vibegron and males were treated with daily oral doses of 0 , 10 , 30 , or 300 mg / kg / day vibegron .
No effects on fertility were observed in female or male rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day , associated with systemic exposure ( AUC ) at least 274 - fold higher than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
General toxicity , decreased fecundity , and decreased fertility were observed in female rats at 1000 mg / kg / day , associated with estimated systemic exposure 1867 - fold higher than in humans treated with the recommended daily dose of GEMTESA .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of GEMTESA was evaluated in a 12 - week , double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , and active - controlled trial ( Study 3003 , NCT03492281 ) in patients with OAB ( urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency ) .
Patients were randomized 5 : 5 : 4 to receive either GEMTESA 75 mg , placebo , or active control orally , once daily for 12 weeks .
For study entry , patients had to have symptoms of OAB for at least 3 months with an average of 8 or more micturitions per day and at least 1 urge urinary incontinence ( UUI ) per day , or an average of 8 or more micturitions per day and an average of at least 3 urgency episodes per day .
Urge urinary incontinence was defined as leakage of urine of any amount because the patient felt an urge or need to urinate immediately .
The study population included OAB medication - naïve patients as well as patients who had received prior therapy with OAB medications .
The co - primary endpoints were change from baseline in average daily number of micturitions and average daily number of UUI episodes at week 12 .
Additional endpoints included change from baseline in average daily number of " need to urinate immediately " ( urgency ) episodes and average volume voided per micturition .
A total of 1 , 515 patients received at least one daily dose of placebo ( n = 540 ) , GEMTESA 75 mg ( n = 545 ) , or an active control treatment ( n = 430 ) .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 78 % ) and female ( 85 % ) with a mean age of 60 ( range 18 to 93 ) years .
Table 2 shows changes from baseline at week 12 for average daily number of micturitions , average daily number of UUI episodes , average daily number of " need to urinate immediately " ( urgency ) episodes , and average volume voided per micturition .
Table 2 : Mean Baseline and Change from Baseline at Week 12 for Micturition Frequency , Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes , " Need to Urinate Immediately " ( Urgency ) Episodes , and Volume Voided per MicturitionParameter GEMTESA 75 mg Placebo Average Daily Number of Micturitions Baseline mean ( n ) 11 . 3 ( 526 ) 11 . 8 ( 520 ) Change from Baseline [ 1 ] ( n ) - 1 . 8 ( 492 ) - 1 . 3 ( 475 ) Difference from Placebo - 0 . 5 95 % Confidence Interval - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 2 p - value < 0 . 001 Average Daily Number of UUI Episodes Baseline mean ( n ) 3 . 4 ( 403 ) 3 . 5 ( 405 ) Change from Baseline null ( n ) - 2 . 0 ( 383 ) - 1 . 4 ( 372 ) Difference from Placebo - 0 . 6 95 % Confidence Interval - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 3 p - value < 0 . 0001 Average Daily Number of " Need to Urinate Immediately " ( Urgency ) Episodes Baseline mean ( n ) 8 . 1 ( 526 ) 8 . 1 ( 520 ) Change from Baseline null ( n ) - 2 . 7 ( 492 ) - 2 . 0 ( 475 ) Difference from Placebo - 0 . 7 95 % Confidence Interval - 1 . 1 , - 0 . 2 p - value 0 . 002 Average Volume Voided ( mL ) per Micturition Baseline mean ( n ) 155 ( 524 ) 148 ( 514 ) Change from Baseline null ( n ) 23 ( 490 ) 2 ( 478 ) Difference from Placebo 21 95 % Confidence Interval 14 , 28 p - value < 0 . 0001 [ 1 ] Least squares mean adjusted for treatment , baseline , sex , geographical region , study visit , and study visit by treatment interaction term .
Figures 1 and 2 show the mean change from baseline over time in average daily number of micturitions and mean change from baseline over time in average daily number of UUI episodes , respectively .
Figure 1 : Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline in the Average Daily Number of Micturitions [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline in the Average Daily Number of UUI Episodes in Patients with At Least 1 Average Daily UUI Episode at Baseline [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING GEMTESA 75 mg tablets are light green , oval , film - coated tablets , debossed with V75 on one side and no debossing on the other side .
GEMTESA is marketed in two packaging configurations : Thirty ( 30 ) tablets in a 60 cc HDPE bottle with a child - resistant cap , NDC 73336 - 075 - 30 Ninety ( 90 ) tablets in a 60 cc HDPE bottle with a child - resistant cap , NDC 73336 - 075 - 90 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this and all medications out of sight and reach of children .
Dispose unused medication via a take - back option if available ; otherwise follow FDA instructions for disposal in the household trash .
See www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Urinary Retention Inform patients that GEMTESA has been associated with urinary retention .
Inform patients that the risk of urinary retention may be increased in patients taking muscarinic antagonist medications for the treatment of OAB .
Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms consistent with urinary retention while taking GEMTESA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients that GEMTESA tablets can be swallowed whole with a glass of water or may be crushed , mixed with a tablespoon of applesauce and taken immediately with a glass of water [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for and Distributed by : Urovant Sciences , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92617 GEMTESA ® is a trademark of Urovant Sciences GmbH , registered in the U . S . and other countries .
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Patented : see https : / / www . urovant . com / about / product - patents © 2020 Urovant Sciences GmbH .
All rights reserved .
PATIENT INFORMATION GEMTESA [ gem tes ' ah ] ( vibegron ) tablets , for oral use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 12 / 2020 What is GEMTESA ?
GEMTESA is a prescription medicine for adults used to treat the following symptoms due to a condition called overactive bladder : • urge urinary incontinence : a strong need to urinate with leaking or wetting accidents • urgency : the need to urinate right away • frequency : urinating often It is not known if GEMTESA is safe and effective in children .
Do not take GEMTESA if you : • are allergic to vibegron or any of the ingredients in GEMTESA .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in GEMTESA .
Before you take GEMTESA , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems .
• have kidney problems .
• have trouble emptying your bladder or you have a weak urine stream .
• take medicines that contain digoxin .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if GEMTESA will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if GEMTESA passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take GEMTESA .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take GEMTESA ?
• Take GEMTESA exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Take 1 GEMTESA tablet , by mouth , 1 time a day with or without food .
• Swallow GEMTESA tablets whole with a glass of water .
• You may also crush GEMTESA tablets , mix with 1 tablespoon ( about 15 mL ) of applesauce , and take right away with a glass of water .
What are the possible side effects of GEMTESA ?
GEMTESA may cause serious side effects including : • inability to empty your bladder ( urinary retention ) .
GEMTESA may increase your chances of not being able to empty your bladder , especially if you have bladder outlet obstruction or take other medicines for treatment of overactive bladder .
Tell your doctor right away if you are unable to empty your bladder .
The most common side effects of GEMTESA include : • urinary tract infection • headache • nasal congestion , sore throat or runny nose • diarrhea • nausea • upper respiratory tract infection These are not all the possible side effects of GEMTESA .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GEMTESA ?
• Store GEMTESA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away medicine that is no longer needed in your household trash .
• You may also dispose of the unused medicine through a take - back option , if available .
See www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information .
Keep GEMTESA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of GEMTESA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use GEMTESA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GEMTESA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about GEMTESA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in GEMTESA ?
Active ingredient : vibegron Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The light green film coating contains FD & C Blue No . 2 - aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Manufactured for and Distributed by : Urovant Sciences , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92617 GEMTESA ® is a trademark of Urovant Sciences GmbH , registered in the U . S . and other countries .
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Patented : see https : / / www . urovant . com / about / product - patents © 2020 Urovant Sciences GmbH .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . GEMTESA . com or call 1 - 833 - 876 - 8268 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 75 mg Tablet Bottle Label 30 tablets NDC 73336 - 075 - 30 Rx Only GEMTESA ® ( vibegron ) tablets 75 mg One Tablet • Once Daily May be swallowed whole or crushed [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
