BOXED WARNING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1991 [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE • 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a hetastarch indicated for treatment of hypovolemia when plasma volume expansion is desired .
( 1 ) • 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection in leukapheresis has shown to be safe and efficacious in improving the harvesting and increasing the yield of granulocytes by centrifugal means .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 30 g hetastarch in 500 mL 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection .
( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS • Do not use hydroxyethyl starch ( HES ) products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in critically ill adult patients , including patients with sepsis , due to increased risk of mortality and renal replacement therapy ( RRT ) .
( 4 ) • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with severe liver disease ( 4 ) • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyethyl starch ( 4 ) • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in clinical conditions where volume overload is a potential problem .
( 4 ) • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with pre - existing coagulation or bleeding disorders ( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid use in patients with pre - existing renal dysfunction ( 5 - 5 . 1 ) • Discontinue use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection at the first sign of renal injury ( 5 - 5 . 1 ) • Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( 5 - 5 . 1 ) • 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is not recommended for use as a cardiac bypass pump prime , while the patient is on cardiopulmonary bypass , or in the immediate period after the pump has been discontinued because of the risk of increasing coagulation abnormalities and bleeding in patients whose coagulation status is already impaired .
Discontinue use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection at first sign of coagulopathy ( 5 - 5 . 2 ) • Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( 5 - 5 . 2 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS • The serious adverse events reported in clinical trials are increased mortality and renal replacement therapy in critically ill patients ( 6 - 6 . 1 ) • Most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity , coagulopathy , hemodilution , circulatory overload and metabolic acidosis .
( 6 - 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hospira , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 441 - 4100 or electronically at ProductComplaintsPP @ hospira . com , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS • Use with caution with drugs that negatively influence the coagulation system .
( 7 ) • The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established .
( 7 ) Revised : 10 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * WARNING : MORTALITY RENAL REPLACEMENT THERAPY 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Adults 2 . 2 Leukapheresis 2 . 3 Direction for use for 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Renal Dysfunction 5 . 2 Coagulopathy 5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions 5 . 4 Circulatory Overload 5 . 5 Liver Function Test 5 . 6 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 15 REFERENCES 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated in the treatment of hypovolemia when plasma volume expansion is desired .
It is not a substitute for blood or plasma .
The adjunctive use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection in leukapheresis has also been shown to be safe and efficacious in improving the harvesting and increasing the yield of granulocytes by centrifugal means .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage for Acute Use in Plasma Volume Expansion 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is administered by intravenous infusion only .
Total dosage and rate of infusion depend upon the amount of blood or plasma lost and the resultant hemoconcentration .
2 . 1 Adults The amount usually administered is 500 to 1000 mL .
Doses of more than 1500 mL per day for the typical 70 kg patient ( approximately 20 mL per kg of body weight ) are usually not required .
Higher doses have been reported in postoperative and trauma patients where severe blood loss has occurred [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 ) ] .
2 . 2 Leukapheresis 250 to 700 mL of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection with citrate anticoagulant is administered by aseptic addition to the input line of the centrifugation apparatus at a ratio of 1 : 8 to 1 : 13 to venous whole blood .
The 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection and citrate should be thoroughly mixed to assure effective anticoagulation of blood as it flows through the leukapheresis machine .
2 . 3 Direction for use for 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection • Do not use plastic container in series connection .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
If administration is not controlled by a pumping device , refrain from applying excessive pressure ( > 300 mmHg ) causing distortion to the container such as wringing or twisting .
Such handling could result in breakage of the container .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
• Intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
• Withdraw or expel all air from the bag through the medication port prior to infusion if administration is by pressure infusion .
• For single use only .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffers ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
CAUTION : Before administering to the patient , review these directions : Visual Inspection • Do not remove the plastic infusion container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
• Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
• Any container which is suspect should not be used .
To Open 1 .
Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container .
2 .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
3 .
If any leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Preparation for Administration 1 .
Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
2 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
When stored at room temperature , 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection admixtures of 500 - 560 mL with citrate concentrations up to 2 . 5 % were compatible for 24 hours .
The safety and compatibility of additives other than citrate have not been established .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Single - use container : • 30 g hetastarch in 500 mL of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use hydroxyethyl starch ( HES ) products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in critically ill adult patients , including patients with sepsis , due to increased risk of mortality and renal replacement therapy ( RRT ) .
• Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with severe liver disease • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyethyl starch • Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in clinical conditions where volume overload is a potential problem ( such as , congestive heart failure or renal disease with anuria or oliguria not related to hypovolemia ) .
• Do not use HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , in patients with pre - existing coagulation or bleeding disorders 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Renal Dysfunction • Avoid use in patients with pre - existing renal dysfunction • Discontinue use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection at the first sign of renal injury • Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 5 . 2 Coagulopathy • 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is not recommended for use as a cardiac bypass pump prime , while the patient is on cardiopulmonary bypass , or in the immediate period after the pump has been discontinued because of the risk of increasing coagulation abnormalities and bleeding in patients whose coagulation status is already impaired .
Discontinue use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection at first sign of coagulopathy 1 - 2 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection has not been adequately evaluated to establish its safety in uses over extended periods other than leukapheresis .
6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection has been associated with coagulation abnormalities in conjunction with an acquired , reversible von Willebrand ' s - like syndrome and / or Factor VIII deficiency when used over a period of days .
Replacement therapy should be considered if a severe Factor VIII deficiency is identified .
If a coagulopathy develops , it may take several days to resolve .
Certain conditions may affect the safe use of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection on a chronic basis .
For example , in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage where 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is used repeatedly over a period of days for the prevention of cerebral vasospasm , significant clinical bleeding may occur .
Intracranial bleeding resulting in death has been reported . 3 Slight declines in platelet counts and hemoglobin levels have been observed in donors undergoing repeated leukapheresis procedures using 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection due to the volume expanding effects of hetastarch and to the collection of platelets and erythrocytes .
Hemoglobin levels usually return to normal within 24 hours .
Hemodilution by 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection may also result in 24 hour declines of total protein , albumin , calcium , and fibrinogen levels .
Regular and frequent clinical evaluation and complete blood counts ( CBC ) are necessary for proper monitoring of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection use during leukapheresis .
If the frequency of leukapheresis is to exceed the guidelines for whole blood donation , you may wish to consider the following additional tests : total leukocyte and platelet counts , leukocyte differential count , hemoglobin and hematocrit , prothrombin time ( PT ) , and partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Life threatening anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions including death have been rarely reported with 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Patients may develop hypersensitivity reaction to corn starch from which this product is made .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , administration of the drug should be discontinued immediately and the appropriate treatment and supportive measures should be undertaken until symptoms have resolved .
5 . 4 Circulatory Overload 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection has not been adequately evaluated to establish its safety in situations other than treatment of hypovolemia in elective surgery .
Large volumes of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection may transiently alter the coagulation mechanism due to hemodilution and a direct inhibitory action on Factor VIII .
Administration of volumes of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection that are greater than 25 % of the blood volume in less than 24 hours may cause significant hemodilution reflected by lower hematocrit and plasma protein values .
Administration of packed red cells , platelets , or fresh frozen plasma should be considered if clinically indicated .
When using 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection for plasma volume expansion , caution should be taken to avoid excessive hemodilution and circulatory overload especially in those patients at risk for developing congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema .
6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is primarily excreted via the kidneys so caution should be exercised in patients who have impaired renal function .
Although the risk of circulatory overload is largely dependent on the clinical circumstances , use of doses higher than 20 mL / kg / 24 h will increase the risk significantly .
Increased risk of coagulation abnormalities and bleeding is also associated with higher doses .
Monitor patients ' vital signs and hemoglobin , hematocrit , platelet count , prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time .
5 . 5 Liver Function Test • Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products , including 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 5 . 6 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Bilirubin Levels Indirect bilirubin levels of 8 . 3 mg / L ( normal 0 . 0 - 7 . 0 mg / L ) have been reported in 2 out of 20 normal subjects who received multiple infusions of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Total bilirubin was within normal limits at all times ; indirect bilirubin returned to normal by 96 hours following the final infusion .
The significance , if any , of these elevations is not known ; however , caution should be observed before administering 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection to patients with a history of liver disease .
Serum Amylase Levels Elevated serum amylase levels may be observed temporarily following administration of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection although no association with pancreatitis has been demonstrated .
Serum amylase levels cannot be used to assess or to evaluate for pancreatitis for 3 - 5 days after administration of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Elevated serum amylase levels persist for longer periods of time in patients with renal impairment .
Hetastarch has not been shown to increase serum lipase .
Hemodialysis 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is not eliminated by hemodialysis .
The utility of other extracorporeal elimination techniques has not been evaluated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The serious adverse events reported in clinical trials are increased mortality and renal replacement therapy renal in critically ill patients .
Most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity , coagulopathy , hemodilution , circulatory overload and metabolic acidosis .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Three randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) followed critically ill adult patients treated with different HES products for 90 days .
One trial ( N = 804 ) in severe sepsis patients using HES product ( not approved in the U . S . ) reported increased mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 17 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 01 to 1 . 36 ; p = 0 . 03 ) and RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 35 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 01 to 1 . 80 ; p = 0 . 04 ) in the HES treatment arm . 4 Another trial ( N = 196 ) using different HES in severe sepsis patients reported no difference in mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 20 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 83 to 1 . 74 ; p = 0 . 33 ) and a trend for RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 83 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 93 to 3 . 59 ; p = 0 . 06 ) in HES patients . 5 A third trial ( N = 7000 ) using different HES in a heterogeneous patient population consisting of critically ill adult patients admitted to the ICU reported no difference in mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 06 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 96 to 1 . 18 ; p = 0 . 26 ) but increased use of RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 21 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 00 to 1 . 45 ; p = 0 . 04 ) in HES patients . 6 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily post - approval from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of these reactions or establish a causal relationship to product exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified and reported during the post - approval use of HES products : Mortality Renal need for renal replacement therapy Hypersensitivity reactions including death , life - threatening anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions , cardiac arrest , ventricular fibrillation , severe hypotension , non - cardiac pulmonary edema , laryngeal edema , bronchospasm , angioedema , wheezing , restlessness , tachypnea , stridor , fever , chest pain , bradycardia , tachycardia , shortness of breath , chills , urticaria , pruritus , facial and periorbital edema , coughing , sneezing , flushing , erythema multiforme , and rash [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiovascular reactions including circulatory overload , congestive heart failure , and pulmonary edema [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hematologic reactions including intracranial bleeding , bleeding and / or anemia due to hemodilution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] and / or Factor VIII deficiency , acquired von Willebrand ' s - like syndrome , and coagulopathy including rare cases of disseminated intravascular coagulopathy and hemolysis .
Metabolic reactions including metabolic acidosis .
Other reactions including vomiting , peripheral edema of the lower extremities , submaxillary and parotid glandular enlargement , mild influenza - like symptoms , headaches , and muscle pains .
Hydroxyethyl starch - associated pruritus has been reported in some patients with deposits of hydroxyethyl starch in peripheral nerves .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection should be used with caution in patients who have been anticoagulated with other drugs that negatively influence the coagulation system .
• The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Hetastarch has been shown to have an embryocidal effect on New Zealand rabbits when given intravenously over the entire organogenesis period in a daily dose 1 / 2 times the maximum recommended therapeutic human dose ( 1500 mL ) and on BD rats when given intraperitoneally , from the 16 th to the 21 st day of pregnancy , in a daily dose 2 . 3 times the maximum recommended therapeutic human dose .
When hetastarch was administered to New Zealand rabbits , BD rats , and swiss mice with intravenous daily doses of 2 times , 1 / 3 times , and 1 times the maximum recommended therapeutic human dose respectively over several days during the period of gestation , no evidence of teratogenicity was evident .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether hetastarch is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of hetastarch in pediatric patients have not been established .
Adequate , well - controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection in pediatric patients have not been conducted .
11 DESCRIPTION 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL contains : Hetastarch ............................................................................
6 g Sodium Chloride , USP ........................................................
0 . 9 g Water for Injection , USP ..................................................... qs pH adjusted with Sodium Hydroxide , NF if necessary Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / L ) : Sodium ( Na + ) 154 , Chloride ( Cl - ) 154 ( not including ions for pH adjustment ) .
pH : 5 . 5 ( 3 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) Total osmolar concentration is 308 mOsmol / liter ( calc ) .
Hetastarch is a synthetic colloid derived from a waxy starch composed almost entirely of amylopectin .
Hydroxyethyl ether groups are introduced into the glucose units of the starch , and the resultant material is hydrolyzed to yield a product with a molecular weight suitable for use as a plasma volume expander and erythrocyte sedimenting agent .
The molar substitution is approximately 0 . 75 which means hetastarch has an average of approximately 75 hydroxyethyl groups for every 100 glucose units .
The weight average molecular weight is approximately 670 , 000 with a range of 550 , 000 to 800 , 000 and with at least 80 % of the polymers falling within the range of 20 , 000 to 2 , 500 , 000 .
Hydroxyethyl groups are attached by ether linkage primarily at C - 2 of the glucose unit and to a lesser extent at C - 3 and C - 6 .
The polymer resembles glycogen , and the polymerized D - glucose units are joined primarily by α - 1 , 4 linkages with occasional α - 1 , 6 branching linkages .
The degree of branching is approximately 1 : 20 which means that there is one 1 - 6 branch for every 20 glucose monomer units .
The chemical name for hetastarch is hydroxyethyl starch .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amylopectin derivative in which R2 , R3 , and R6 are H or CH2CH2OH , or R6 is a branching point in the starch polymer connected through a 1 - 6 linkage to additional alpha - D - glucopyranosyl units .
Hetastarch is an artificial colloid pharmacologically classified as a plasma volume expander ; 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a fluid and electrolyte replenisher .
6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is a clear , pale yellow to amber solution .
Exposure to prolonged adverse storage conditions may result in a change to a turbid deep brown or the formation of a crystalline precipitate .
Do not use the solution if these conditions are evident .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The plasma volume expansion produced by 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection approximates that of 5 % Albumin ( Human ) .
Intravenous infusion of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection results in expansion of plasma volume .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection results in expansion of plasma volume that decreases over the succeeding 24 to 36 hours .
The degree of plasma volume expansion and improvement in hemodynamic state depend upon the patient ' s intravascular status .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Hetastarch molecules below 50 , 000 molecular weight are rapidly eliminated by renal excretion .
A single dose of approximately 500 mL of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( approximately 30 g ) results in elimination in the urine of approximately 33 % of the dose within 24 hours .
This is a variable process but generally results in an intravascular hetastarch concentration of less than 10 % of the total dose injected by two weeks .
A study of the biliary excretion of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection in 10 healthy males accounted for less than 1 % of the dose over a 14 day period .
The hydroxyethyl group is not cleaved by the body but remains intact and attached to glucose units when excreted .
Significant quantities of glucose are not produced as hydroxyethylation prevents complete metabolism of the smaller polymers .
The addition of hetastarch to whole blood increases the erythrocyte sedimentation rate .
Therefore , 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is used to improve the efficiency of granulocyte collection by centrifugal means .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies of animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of hetastarch .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Surgical Patients Comparative Studies In randomized , controlled , comparative studies of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( n = 92 ) and Albumin ( n = 85 ) in surgical patients , no patient in either treatment group had a bleeding complication and no significant difference was found in the amount of blood loss between the treatment groups . 7 - 10 Pediatric Postoperative Volume Expander Study In one small double - blind study , 47 infants , children , and adolescents ( ages 1 year to 15 . 5 years ) scheduled for repair of congenital heart disease with moderate hypothermia were randomized to receive either 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Albumin as a postoperative volume expander during the first 24 hours after surgery .
Thirty - eight children required colloid replacement therapy , of which 20 children received 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
No differences were found in the coagulation parameters or in the amount of replacement fluids required in the children receiving 20 mL / kg or less of either colloid replacement therapy .
In children who received greater than 20 mL / kg of 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , an increase in prothrombin time was demonstrated ( p = 0 . 006 ) . 11 There were no neonates included in this study [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Adult Critically Ill Studies Three randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) followed critically ill adult patients treated with different HES products for 90 days .
One trial ( N = 804 ) in severe sepsis patients using HES product ( not approved in the U . S . ) reported increased mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 17 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 01 to 1 . 36 ; p = 0 . 03 ) and RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 35 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 01 to 1 . 80 ; p = 0 . 04 ) in the HES treatment arm . 4 Another trial ( N = 196 ) using different HES in severe sepsis patients reported no difference in mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 20 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 83 to 1 . 74 ; p = 0 . 33 ) and a trend for RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 83 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 93 to 3 . 59 ; p = 0 . 06 ) in HES patients . 5 A third trial ( N = 7000 ) using different HES in a heterogeneous patient population consisting of critically ill adult patients admitted to the ICU reported no difference in mortality ( relative risk , 1 . 06 ; 95 % CI , 0 . 96 to 1 . 18 ; p = 0 . 26 ) but increased use of RRT ( relative risk , 1 . 21 ; 95 % CI , 1 . 00 to 1 . 45 ; p = 0 . 04 ) in HES patients . 6 15 REFERENCES 1 .
Knutson JE , et al . , Does Intraoperative Hetastarch Administration Increase Blood Loss and Transfusion Requirements After Cardiac Surgery ?
Anesthesia Analg . , 2000 ; 90 : 801 - 7 .
2 .
Cope JT , et al . , Intraoperative Hetastarch Infusion Impairs Hemostasis After Cardiac Operations .
The Annals of Thoracic Surgery , 1997 ; 63 : 78 - 83 .
3 .
Damon L , Intracranial Bleeding During Treatment with Hydroxyethyl Starch .
New England Journal of Medicine , 1987 ; 317 ( 15 ) : 964 - 965 .
4 .
Perner A , et al . , Hydroxyethyl starch 130 / 0 . 42 versus Ringer ' s acetate in severe sepsis patients .
The New England Journal of Medicine , 2012 July 12 ; 367 ( 2 ) : 124 - 34 .
5 .
Guidet B , et al . , Assessment of hemodynamic efficacy and safety of 6 % hydroxyethyl starch 130 / 0 . 4 vs 0 . 9 % NaCl fluid replacement in patients with severe sepsis : The CRYSTMAS Study .
Critical Care , 2012 May 24 ; 16 ( 3 ) : R94 .
6 .
Myburgh JA , et al . , Hydroxyethyl starch or saline for fluid resuscitation in intensive care .
The New England Journal of Medicine , 2012 November 15 ; 367 ( 20 ) : 1901 - 11 .
7 .
Diehl J , et al . , Clinical Comparison of Hetastarch and Albumin in Postoperative Cardiac Patients .
The Annals of Thoracic Surgery , 1982 ; 34 ( 6 ) : 674 - 679 .
8 .
Gold M , et al . , Comparison of Hetastarch to Albumin for Perioperative Bleeding in Patients Undergoing Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Surgery .
Annals of Surgery , 1990 ; 211 ( 4 ) : 482 - 485 .
9 .
Kirklin J , et al . , Hydroxyethyl Starch versus Albumin for Colloid Infusion Following Cardiopulmonary Bypass in Patients Undergoing Myocardial Revascularization .
The Annals of Thoracic Surgery , 1984 ; 37 ( 1 ) : 40 - 46 .
10 .
Moggio RA , et al . , Hemodynamic Comparison of Albumin and Hydroxyethyl Starch in Postoperative Cardiac Surgery Patients .
Critical Care Medicine , 1983 ; 11 ( 12 ) : 943 - 945 .
11 .
Brutocao D , et al . , Comparison of Hetastarch with Albumin for Postoperative Volume Expansion in Children After Cardiopulmonary Bypass .
Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia , 1996 ; 10 ( 3 ) : 348 - 351 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 6 % HETASTARCH IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1317 - 1 6 % HETASTARCH IN 0 . 9 % SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION 500 mL BAG HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms 6 % Hetastarch in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 500 mL single - use flexible plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1287 - 3 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , CONTAINER LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
