WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY • Do not administer OPSUMIT to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Females of reproductive potential : Exclude pregnancy before the start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and 1 month after stopping treatment .
Prevent pregnancy during treatment and for one month after stopping treatment by using acceptable methods of contraception [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• For all female patients , OPSUMIT is available only through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Do not administer OPSUMIT to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm ( 4 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) .
• Females of reproductive potential : exclude pregnancy before start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and 1 month after stopping treatment .
Prevent pregnancy during treatment and for one month after treatment by using acceptable methods of contraception ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 3 ) .
• For all female patients , OPSUMIT is available only through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) ( 5 . 2 ) .
Contraindication ( 4 . 2 ) 10 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OPSUMIT is an endothelin receptor antagonist ( ERA ) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH , WHO Group I ) to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for PAH ( 1 . 1 ) .
1 . 1 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension OPSUMIT is an endothelin receptor antagonist ( ERA ) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH , WHO Group I ) to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for PAH .
Effectiveness was established in a long - term study in PAH patients with predominantly WHO Functional Class II – III symptoms treated for an average of 2 years .
Patients had idiopathic and heritable PAH ( 57 % ) , PAH caused by connective tissue disorders ( 31 % ) , and PAH caused by congenital heart disease with repaired shunts ( 8 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 10 mg once daily .
Doses higher than 10 mg once daily have not been studied in patients with PAH and are not recommended ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of OPSUMIT is 10 mg once daily for oral administration .
Doses higher than 10 mg once daily have not been studied in patients with PAH and are not recommended .
2 . 2 Pregnancy Testing in Females of Reproductive Potential Obtain a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to OPSUMIT treatment , monthly during treatment and one month after stopping OPSUMIT .
Initiate treatment with OPSUMIT in females of reproductive potential only after a negative pregnancy test .
[ see Boxed Warning , Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 10 mg , bi - convex film - coated , round , white , and debossed with " 10 " on both sides .
• Tablet : 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pregnancy ( 4 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Pregnancy OPSUMIT may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
OPSUMIT is contraindicated in females who are pregnant .
OPSUMIT was consistently shown to have teratogenic effects when administered to animals .
If OPSUMIT is used during pregnancy , advise the patient of the potential risk to a fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity OPSUMIT is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to macitentan or any component of the product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • ERAs cause hepatotoxicity and liver failure .
Obtain baseline liver enzymes and monitor as clinically indicated ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Fluid retention may require intervention ( 5 . 4 ) • Decreases in hemoglobin ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Pulmonary edema in patients with pulmonary veno - occlusive disease .
If confirmed , discontinue treatment ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Decreases in sperm count have been observed in patients taking ERAs ( 5 . 7 ) .
5 . 1 Embryo - fetal Toxicity OPSUMIT may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy and is contraindicated for use in females who are pregnant .
In females of reproductive potential , exclude pregnancy prior to initiation of therapy , ensure use of acceptable contraceptive methods and obtain monthly pregnancy tests [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
OPSUMIT is available for females through the OPSUMIT REMS Program , a restricted distribution program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 OPSUMIT REMS Program For all females , OPSUMIT is available only through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT REMS Program , because of the risk of embryo - fetal toxicity [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Notable requirements of the OPSUMIT REMS Program include the following : • Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training .
• All females , regardless of reproductive potential , must enroll in the OPSUMIT REMS Program prior to initiating OPSUMIT .
Male patients are not enrolled in the REMS .
• Females of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Pharmacies must be certified with the program and must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive OPSUMIT .
Further information is available at www . OPSUMITREMS . com or 1 - 866 - 228 - 3546 .
Information on OPSUMIT certified pharmacies or wholesale distributors is available at 1 - 866 - 228 - 3546 .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity ERAs have caused elevations of aminotransferases , hepatotoxicity , and liver failure .
The incidence of elevated aminotransferases in the study of OPSUMIT in PAH is shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Incidence of Elevated Aminotransferases in the SERAPHIN Study OPSUMIT 10 mg ( N = 242 ) Placebo ( N = 249 ) > 3 × ULN 3 . 4 % 4 . 5 % > 8 × ULN 2 . 1 % 0 . 4 % In the placebo - controlled study of OPSUMIT , discontinuations for hepatic adverse events were 3 . 3 % in the OPSUMIT 10 mg group vs . 1 . 6 % for placebo .
Obtain liver enzyme tests prior to initiation of OPSUMIT and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients to report symptoms suggesting hepatic injury ( nausea , vomiting , right upper quadrant pain , fatigue , anorexia , jaundice , dark urine , fever , or itching ) .
If clinically relevant aminotransferase elevations occur , or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin > 2 × ULN , or by clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity , discontinue OPSUMIT .
Consider re - initiation of OPSUMIT when hepatic enzyme levels normalize in patients who have not experienced clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity .
5 . 4 Fluid Retention Peripheral edema and fluid retention are known clinical consequences of PAH and known effects of ERAs .
In the placebo - controlled study of OPSUMIT in PAH , the incidence of edema was 21 . 9 % in the OPSUMIT 10 mg group and 20 . 5 % in the placebo group .
Patients with underlying left ventricular dysfunction may be at particular risk for developing significant fluid retention after initiation of ERA treatment .
In a small study of OPSUMIT in patients with pulmonary hypertension because of left ventricular dysfunction , more patients in the OPSUMIT group developed significant fluid retention and had more hospitalizations because of worsening heart failure compared to those randomized to placebo .
Postmarketing cases of edema and fluid retention occurring within weeks of starting OPSUMIT , some requiring intervention with a diuretic or hospitalization for decompensated heart failure , have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor for signs of fluid retention after OPSUMIT initiation .
If clinically significant fluid retention develops , evaluate the patient to determine the cause , such as OPSUMIT or underlying heart failure , and the possible need to discontinue OPSUMIT .
5 . 5 Hemoglobin Decrease Decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit have occurred following administration of other ERAs and were observed in clinical studies with OPSUMIT .
These decreases occurred early and stabilized thereafter .
In the placebo - controlled study of OPSUMIT in PAH , OPSUMIT 10 mg caused a mean decrease in hemoglobin from baseline to up to 18 months of about 1 . 0 g / dL compared to no change in the placebo group .
A decrease in hemoglobin to below 10 . 0 g / dL was reported in 8 . 7 % of the OPSUMIT 10 mg group and in 3 . 4 % of the placebo group .
Decreases in hemoglobin seldom require transfusion .
Initiation of OPSUMIT is not recommended in patients with severe anemia .
Measure hemoglobin prior to initiation of treatment and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Pulmonary Edema with Pulmonary Veno - occlusive Disease ( PVOD ) Should signs of pulmonary edema occur , consider the possibility of associated PVOD .
If confirmed , discontinue OPSUMIT .
5 . 7 Decreased Sperm Counts OPSUMIT , like other ERAs , may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis .
Counsel men about potential effects on fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinically significant adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include : • Embryo - fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fluid Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Decrease in Hemoglobin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( more frequent than placebo by ≥ 3 % ) are anemia , nasopharyngitis / pharyngitis , bronchitis , headache , influenza , and urinary tract infection ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Janssen at 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 ( 1 - 800 - JANSSEN ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Safety data for OPSUMIT were obtained primarily from one placebo - controlled clinical study in 742 patients with PAH ( SERAPHIN study ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The exposure to OPSUMIT in this trial was up to 3 . 6 years with a median exposure of about 2 years ( N = 542 for 1 year ; N = 429 for 2 years ; and N = 98 for more than 3 years ) .
The overall incidence of treatment discontinuations because of adverse events was similar across OPSUMIT 10 mg and placebo treatment groups ( approximately 11 % ) .
Table 2 presents adverse reactions more frequent on OPSUMIT than on placebo by ≥ 3 % .
Table 2 : Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction OPSUMIT 10 mg ( N = 242 ) ( % ) Placebo ( N = 249 ) ( % ) Anemia 13 3 Nasopharyngitis / pharyngitis 20 13 Bronchitis 12 6 Headache 14 9 Influenza 6 2 Urinary tract infection 9 6 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of OPSUMIT .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions ( angioedema , pruritus and rash ) Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : nasal congestion Gastrointestinal disorders : Elevations of liver aminotransferases ( ALT , AST ) and liver injury have been reported with OPSUMIT use ; in most cases alternative causes could be identified ( heart failure , hepatic congestion , autoimmune hepatitis ) .
Endothelin receptor antagonists have been associated with elevations of aminotransferases , hepatotoxicity , and cases of liver failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
General disorders and administration site conditions : edema / fluid retention .
Cases of edema and fluid retention occurred within weeks of starting OPSUMIT , some requiring intervention with a diuretic , fluid management or hospitalization for decompensated heart failure .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Cardiac disorders : symptomatic hypotension 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4 inducers ( rifampin ) reduce exposure to macitentan : avoid co - administration with OPSUMIT ( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) .
• Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( ketoconazole , ritonavir ) increase exposure to macitentan : avoid co - administration with OPSUMIT ( 7 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) .
• Moderate dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitors ( fluconazole , amiodarone ) or use of combined CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitors may increase exposure to macitentan : avoid co - administration with OPSUMIT ( 7 . 3 , 12 . 3 ) .
7 . 1 Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Strong inducers of CYP3A4 such as rifampin significantly reduce macitentan exposure .
Concomitant use of OPSUMIT with strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole approximately double macitentan exposure .
Many HIV drugs like ritonavir are strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 .
Avoid concomitant use of OPSUMIT with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use other PAH treatment options when strong CYP3A4 inhibitors are needed as part of HIV treatment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Moderate Dual or Combined CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Concomitant use of moderate dual inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 such as fluconazole is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4 - fold based on physiologically based pharmacokinetic ( PBPK ) modelling .
Avoid concomitant use of OPSUMIT with moderate dual inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 ( such as fluconazole and amiodarone ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Concomitant treatment of both a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor with OPSUMIT should also be avoided [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on data from animal reproduction studies , OPSUMIT may cause embryo - fetal toxicity , including birth defects and fetal death , when administered to a pregnant female and is contraindicated during pregnancy .
There are risks to the mother and the fetus associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
There are limited data on OPSUMIT use in pregnant women .
Macitentan was teratogenic in rabbits and rats at all doses tested .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , advise the patient of the risk to a fetus [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension , pregnancy is associated with an increased rate of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality , including spontaneous abortion , intrauterine growth restriction and premature labor .
Data Animal Data In both rabbits and rats , there were cardiovascular and mandibular arch fusion abnormalities .
Administration of macitentan to female rats from late pregnancy through lactation caused reduced pup survival and impairment of the male fertility of the offspring at all dose levels tested .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of macitentan in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from OPSUMIT advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with OPSUMIT .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating OPSUMIT , monthly during treatment and one month after stopping treatment with OPSUMIT .
The patient should contact her physician immediately for pregnancy testing if onset of menses is delayed or pregnancy is suspected .
If the pregnancy test is positive , the physician and patient must discuss the risks to her , the pregnancy , and the fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Contraindication ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Female patients of reproductive potential must use acceptable methods of contraception during treatment with OPSUMIT and for 1 month after treatment with OPSUMIT .
Patients may choose one highly effective form of contraception ( intrauterine devices ( IUD ) , contraceptive implants or tubal sterilization ) or a combination of methods ( hormone method with a barrier method or two barrier methods ) .
If a partner ' s vasectomy is the chosen method of contraception , a hormone or barrier method must be used along with this method .
Counsel patients on pregnancy planning and prevention , including emergency contraception , or designate counseling by another healthcare provider trained in contraceptive counseling [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Based on findings in animals , OPSUMIT may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential .
It is not known whether effects on fertility would be reversible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of OPSUMIT in children have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in the clinical study of OPSUMIT for PAH , 14 % were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE OPSUMIT has been administered as a single dose of up to and including 600 mg to healthy subjects ( 60 times the approved dosage ) .
Adverse reactions of headache , nausea and vomiting were observed .
In the event of an overdose , standard supportive measures should be taken , as required .
Dialysis is unlikely to be effective because macitentan is highly protein - bound .
11 DESCRIPTION OPSUMIT ® ( macitentan ) is an endothelin receptor antagonist .
The chemical name of macitentan is N - [ 5 - ( 4 - Bromophenyl ) - 6 - [ 2 - [ ( 5 - bromo - 2 - pyrimidinyl ) oxy ] ethoxy ] - 4 - pyrimidinyl ] - N ' - propylsulfamide .
It has a molecular formula of C19H20Br2N6O4S and a molecular weight of 588 . 27 .
Macitentan is achiral and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Macitentan is a crystalline powder that is insoluble in water .
In the solid state macitentan is very stable , is not hygroscopic , and is not light sensitive .
OPSUMIT is available as a 10 mg film - coated tablet for once daily oral administration .
The tablets include the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , povidone , and sodium starch glycolate Type A .
The tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing polyvinyl alcohol , soya lecithin , talc , titanium dioxide , and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Endothelin ( ET ) - 1 and its receptors ( ETA and ETB ) mediate a variety of deleterious effects , such as vasoconstriction , fibrosis , proliferation , hypertrophy , and inflammation .
In disease conditions such as PAH , the local ET system is upregulated and is involved in vascular hypertrophy and in organ damage .
Macitentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist that inhibits the binding of ET - 1 to both ETA and ETB receptors .
Macitentan displays high affinity and sustained occupancy of the ET receptors in human pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells .
One of the metabolites of macitentan is also pharmacologically active at the ET receptors and is estimated to be about 20 % as potent as the parent drug in vitro .
The clinical impact of dual endothelin blockage is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pulmonary Hemodynamics The clinical efficacy study in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension assessed hemodynamic parameters in a subset of patients after 6 months of treatment .
Patients treated with OPSUMIT 10 mg ( N = 57 ) achieved a median reduction of 37 % ( 95 % CI 22 – 49 ) in pulmonary vascular resistance and an increase of 0 . 6 L / min / m2 ( 95 % CI 0 . 3 – 0 . 9 ) in cardiac index compared to placebo ( N = 67 ) .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled four - way crossover study with a positive control in healthy subjects , repeated doses of macitentan 10 and 30 mg ( 3 times the recommended dosage ) had no significant effect on the QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of macitentan and its active metabolite have been studied primarily in healthy subjects .
The pharmacokinetics of macitentan are dose proportional over a range from 1 mg to 30 mg after once daily administration .
A cross study comparison shows that the exposures to macitentan and its active metabolite in patients with PAH are similar to those observed in healthy subjects .
Absorption and Distribution The maximum plasma concentration of macitentan is achieved about 8 hours after oral administration .
The absolute bioavailability after oral administration is not known .
In a study in healthy subjects , the exposure to macitentan and its active metabolite were unchanged after a high fat breakfast .
Macitentan may therefore be taken with or without food .
Macitentan and its active metabolite are highly bound to plasma proteins ( > 99 % ) , primarily to albumin and to a lesser extent to alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
The apparent volumes of distribution ( Vss / F ) of macitentan and its active metabolite were about 50 L and 40 L respectively in healthy subjects .
Metabolism and Elimination Following oral administration , the apparent elimination half - lives of macitentan and its active metabolite are approximately 16 hours and 48 hours , respectively .
Macitentan is metabolized primarily by oxidative depropylation of the sulfamide to form the pharmacologically active metabolite .
This reaction is dependent on the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) system , mainly CYP3A4 with minor contributions of CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
At steady state in PAH patients , the systemic exposure to the active metabolite is 3 - times the exposure to macitentan and is expected to contribute approximately 40 % of the total pharmacologic activity .
In a study in healthy subjects with radiolabeled macitentan , approximately 50 % of radioactive drug material was eliminated in urine but none was in the form of unchanged drug or the active metabolite .
About 24 % of the radioactive drug material was recovered from feces .
Special Populations There are no clinically relevant effects of age , sex , or race on the pharmacokinetics of macitentan and its active metabolite .
Renal Impairment Exposure to macitentan and its active metabolite in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl 15 – 29 mL / min ) compared to healthy subjects was increased by 30 % and 60 % , respectively .
This increase is not considered clinically relevant .
Hepatic Impairment Exposure to macitentan was decreased by 21 % , 34 % , and 6 % and exposure to the active metabolite was decreased by 20 % , 25 % , and 25 % in subjects with mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A , B , and C ) , respectively .
This decrease is not considered clinically relevant .
Drug Interactions In Vitro Studies At plasma levels obtained with dosing at 10 mg once daily , macitentan has no relevant inhibitory or inducing effects on CYP enzymes .
Macitentan is not a substrate or inhibitor of multi - drug resistance protein ( P - gp , MDR - 1 ) .
The active metabolite of macitentan also is not an inhibitor of P - gp / MDR - 1 at clinically relevant concentrations .
Macitentan and its active metabolite are not expected to have significant interaction with drug transporters such as organic anion transporting polypeptide ( OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 ) , multidrug and toxin extrusion protein ( MATE - 1 , MATE - 2 K ) , bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) , sodium - taurocholate co - transporting polypeptide ( NTCP ) , organic cation transporter ( OCT - 1 , OCT - 3 ) , organic anion transporter ( OAT - 1 , OAT - 3 ) or BCRP transporter at clinically relevant plasma concentrations .
In Vivo Studies Effect of other drugs on macitentan The effect of other drugs on macitentan and its active metabolite are studied in healthy subjects and are shown in Figure 1 below .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir on macitentan were not studied , but are likely to result in an increase in macitentan exposure at steady state similar to that seen with ketoconazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
PBPK modeling and simulations based analysis showed that a moderate dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 such as fluconazole ( 400 mg once daily ) is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4 - fold without relevant effect on the exposure to its active metabolite [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect of macitentan on other drugs Warfarin : Macitentan once daily dosing did not alter the exposure to R - and S - warfarin or their effect on international normalized ratio ( INR ) .
Sildenafil : At steady - state , the exposure to sildenafil 20 mg t . i . d . increased by 15 % during concomitant administration of macitentan 10 mg once daily .
This change is not considered clinically relevant .
Hormonal contraceptives : Macitentan 10 mg once daily did not affect the pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive ( norethisterone 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 35 µg ) .
BCRP Substrate drugs : Macitentan 10 mg once daily did not affect the pharmacokinetics of concomitant use of a BCRP substrate drug ( riociguat 1 mg and rosuvastatin 10 mg ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies of 2 years ' duration did not reveal any carcinogenic potential at exposures 75 - fold and 140 - fold the human exposure ( based on AUC ) in male and female mice , respectively , and 8 . 3 - and 42 - fold in male and female rats , respectively .
Mutagenesis Macitentan was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo assays that included a bacterial reverse mutation assay , an assay for gene mutations in mouse lymphoma cells , a chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , and an in vivo micronucleus test in rats .
Impairment of Fertility Treatment of juvenile rats from postnatal Day 4 to Day 114 led to reduced body weight gain and testicular tubular atrophy at exposures 7 - fold the human exposure .
Fertility was not affected .
Reversible testicular tubular dilatation was observed in chronic toxicity studies at exposures greater than 7 - fold and 23 - fold the human exposure in rats and dogs , respectively .
After 2 years of treatment , tubular atrophy was seen in rats at 4 - fold the human exposure .
Macitentan did not affect male or female fertility at exposures ranging from 19 - to 44 - fold the human exposure , respectively , and had no effect on sperm count , motility , and morphology in male rats .
No testicular findings were noted in mice after treatment up to 2 years .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology In dogs , macitentan decreased blood pressure at exposures similar to the therapeutic human exposure .
Intimal thickening of coronary arteries was observed at 17 - fold the human exposure after 4 to 39 weeks of treatment .
Due to the species - specific sensitivity and the safety margin , this finding is considered not relevant for humans .
There were no adverse liver findings in long - term studies conducted in mice , rats , and dogs at exposures of 12 - to 116 - fold the human exposure .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension The effect of macitentan on progression of PAH was demonstrated in a multi - center , long - term ( average duration of exposure approximately 2 years ) , placebo - controlled study in 742 patients with symptomatic [ WHO functional class ( FC ) II – IV ] PAH who were randomized to placebo ( n = 250 ) , 3 mg macitentan ( n = 250 ) , or 10 mg macitentan ( n = 242 ) once daily .
Patients were treated with OPSUMIT monotherapy or in combination with phosphodiesterase - 5 inhibitors or inhaled prostanoids .
The primary study endpoint was time to the first occurrence of death , a significant morbidity event , defined as atrial septostomy , lung transplantation , initiation of IV or subcutaneous ( SC ) prostanoids , or " other worsening of PAH " during double - blind treatment plus 7 days .
Other worsening was defined as all of the following : 1 ) a sustained ≥ 15 % decrease from baseline in 6 minute walk distance ( 6 MWD ) , 2 ) worsening of PAH symptoms ( worsening of WHO FC ) , and 3 ) need for additional treatment for PAH .
All of these other worsening events were confirmed by an independent adjudication committee , blinded to treatment allocation .
A critical secondary endpoint was time to PAH death or PAH hospitalization .
The mean patient age was 46 years ( 14 % were age 65 or above ) .
Most patients were white ( 55 % ) or Asian ( 29 % ) and female ( 77 % ) .
Approximately 52 % , 46 % , and 2 % of patients were in WHO FC II , III , and IV , respectively .
Idiopathic or heritable PAH was the most common etiology in the study population ( 57 % ) followed by PAH caused by connective tissue disorders ( 31 % ) , PAH caused by congenital heart disease with repaired shunts ( 8 % ) , and PAH caused by other etiologies [ drugs and toxins ( 3 % ) and HIV ( 1 % ) ] .
At baseline , the majority of enrolled patients ( 64 % ) were being treated with a stable dose of specific therapy for PAH , either oral phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( 61 % ) and / or inhaled / oral prostanoids ( 6 % ) .
Study results are described for the placebo and OPSUMIT 10 mg groups .
The median treatment durations were 101 and 118 weeks in the placebo and OPSUMIT 10 mg groups , respectively , up to a maximum of 188 weeks .
Treatment with OPSUMIT 10 mg resulted in a 45 % reduction ( HR 0 . 55 , 97 . 5 % CI 0 . 39 – 0 . 76 ; logrank p < 0 . 0001 ) in the occurrence of the primary endpoint up to end of double - blind treatment compared to placebo ( Table 3 and Figure 2 ) .
The beneficial effect of OPSUMIT 10 mg was primarily attributable to a reduction in clinical worsening events ( deterioration in 6 MWD and worsening of PAH symptoms and need for additional PAH treatment ) .
Figure 2 Kaplan - Meier Estimates of the Occurrence of the Primary Endpoint Event in the SERAPHIN Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 3 : Summary of Primary Endpoint Events Placebo N = 250 n ( % ) OPSUMIT 10 mg N = 242 n ( % ) Patients with a primary endpoint event [ 1 ] 116 ( 46 . 4 ) 76 ( 31 . 4 ) Component as first event Worsening PAH 93 ( 37 . 2 ) 59 ( 24 . 4 ) Death 17 ( 6 . 8 ) 16 ( 6 . 6 ) IV / SC prostanoid 6 ( 2 . 4 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) [ 1 ] No patients experienced an event of lung transplantation or atrial septostomy in the placebo or OPSUMIT 10 mg treatment groups .
Subgroup analyses were performed to examine their influence on outcome as shown in Figure 3 .
Consistent efficacy of OPSUMIT 10 mg on the primary endpoint was seen across subgroups of age , sex , race , etiology , by monotherapy or in combination with another PAH therapy , baseline 6 MWD , and baseline WHO FC .
Figure 3 Subgroup Analysis of the SERAPHIN Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Eo = Number of events OPSUMIT 10 mg ; No = Number of patients randomized to OPSUMIT 10 mg Ep = Number of events placebo ; Np = Number of patients randomized to placebo PAH related death or hospitalization for PAH was assessed as a secondary endpoint .
The risk of PAH related death or hospitalization for PAH was reduced by 50 % in patients receiving OPSUMIT 10 mg compared to placebo ( HR 0 . 50 , 97 . 5 % CI 0 . 34 – 0 . 75 ; logrank p < 0 . 0001 ) ( Table 4 and Figure 4 ) .
Figure 4 Kaplan - Meier Estimates of the Occurrence of Death due to PAH or Hospitalization for PAH in SERAPHIN [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 4 : Summary of Death due to PAH and Hospitalization due to PAH Placebo ( N = 250 ) n ( % ) OPSUMIT 10 mg ( N = 242 ) n ( % ) Death due to PAH or hospitalization for PAH 84 ( 33 . 6 ) 50 ( 20 . 7 ) Component as first event Death due to PAH 5 ( 2 . 0 ) 5 ( 2 . 1 ) Hospitalization for PAH 79 ( 31 . 6 ) 45 ( 18 . 6 ) Treatment with OPSUMIT 10 mg resulted in a placebo - corrected mean increase in 6 MWD of 22 meters at Month 6 ( 97 . 5 % CI 3 – 41 ; p = 0 . 0078 ) , with significant improvement in 6 MWD by Month 3 .
6 MWD increased more in patients with worse baseline WHO Functional Class ( 37 meters and 12 meters placebo - corrected mean increase in WHO FC III / IV and FC I / II , respectively ) .
The increase in 6 MWD achieved with OPSUMIT was maintained for the duration of the study .
Treatment with OPSUMIT 10 mg led to an improvement of at least one WHO Functional Class at Month 6 in 22 % of patients compared to 13 % of patients treated with placebo .
Long - Term Treatment of PAH In long - term follow - up of patients who were treated with OPSUMIT 10 mg in the placebo - controlled study ( N = 242 ) and the open - label extension study , Kaplan - Meier estimates of survival at 1 , 2 , 5 , and 7 years were 95 % , 89 % , 73 % , and 63 % respectively .
The median exposure to OPSUMIT was 4 . 6 years .
These uncontrolled observations do not allow comparison with a group not given OPSUMIT and cannot be used to determine the long term - effect of OPSUMIT on mortality .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OPSUMIT ® ( macitentan ) tablets are 10 mg white , film - coated , bi - convex debossed with " 10 " on both sides and supplied as follows : 15 count / PVC / PE / PVDC aluminum foil blisters in carton ( NDC 66215 - 501 - 15 ) 30 count white high - density polyethylene bottle in carton ( NDC 66215 - 501 - 30 ) Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) .
Excursions are permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patient to read FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Counsel female patients of reproductive potential about the need to use reliable methods of contraception during treatment with OPSUMIT and for one month after treatment discontinuation .
Females of reproductive potential must have monthly pregnancy tests and must use reliable methods of contraception while taking OPSUMIT and for one month after discontinuing OPSUMIT [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
OPSUMIT REMS Program For female patients , OPSUMIT is available only through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT REMS Program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Male patients are not enrolled in the OPSUMIT REMS .
Patients may choose one highly effective form of contraception ( intrauterine devices ( IUD ) , contraceptive implants or tubal sterilization ) or a combination of methods ( hormone method with a barrier method or two barrier methods ) .
Patients should be instructed to contact their physician if they suspect they may be pregnant .
Patients should seek additional contraceptive advice from a gynecologist or similar expert as needed .
Inform female patients ( and their guardians , if applicable ) of the following notable requirements .
• Female patients must sign an enrollment form .
• Female patients of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Educate and counsel females of reproductive potential on the use of emergency contraception in the event of unprotected sex or contraceptive failure .
Advise pre - pubertal females to report any changes in their reproductive status immediately to her prescriber .
Review the Medication Guide and REMS educational materials with female patients .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with OPSUMIT [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Some members of this pharmacological class are hepatotoxic .
Educate patients on signs of hepatotoxicity .
Advise patients that they should contact their doctor if they have unexplained nausea , vomiting , right upper quadrant pain , fatigue , anorexia , jaundice , dark urine , fever , or itching .
Fluid Retention Educate patients on signs of fluid retention .
Advise patients that they should contact their doctor if they have unusual weight increase or swelling of the ankles or legs .
Administration Patients should be advised not to split , crush , or chew tablets .
Manufactured for : Actelion Pharmaceuticals US , Inc . , a Janssen Pharmaceutical Company Titusville , NJ 08560 , USA For patent information : www . janssenpatents . com © 2013 – 2019 Actelion Pharmaceuticals US , Inc .
All rights reserved .
JN20220725 MEDICATION GUIDE OPSUMIT ® ( OP - sum - it ) ( macitentan ) tablets This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 07 / 2022 Read this Medication Guide for OPSUMIT before you start taking OPSUMIT and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about OPSUMIT ?
• Serious birth defects .
OPSUMIT can cause serious birth defects if taken during pregnancy .
• Females must not be pregnant when they start taking OPSUMIT or become pregnant during treatment with OPSUMIT .
• Females who are able to get pregnant must have a negative pregnancy test before beginning treatment with OPSUMIT , each month during treatment with OPSUMIT and 1 month after stopping OPSUMIT .
Talk to your healthcare provider about your menstrual cycle .
Your healthcare provider will decide when to do the pregnancy test , and will order a pregnancy test for you depending on your menstrual cycle .
• Females who are able to get pregnant are females who : • have entered puberty , even if they have not started their menstrual period , and • have a uterus , and • have not gone through menopause .
Menopause means that you have not had a menstrual period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or that you have had your ovaries removed .
• Females who are not able to get pregnant are females who : • have not yet entered puberty , or • do not have a uterus , or • have gone through menopause .
Menopause means that you have not had a menstrual period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or that you have had your ovaries removed , or • are infertile for other medical reasons and this infertility is permanent and cannot be reversed .
Females who are able to get pregnant must use two acceptable forms of birth control during treatment with OPSUMIT , and for one month after stopping OPSUMIT because the medicine may still be in the body .
• If you have had a tubal sterilization , have a progesterone implant , or have an IUD ( intrauterine device ) , these methods can be used alone and no other form of birth control is needed .
• Talk with your healthcare provider or gynecologist ( a doctor who specializes in female reproduction ) to find out about options for acceptable birth control that you may use to prevent pregnancy during treatment with OPSUMIT .
• If you decide that you want to change the form of birth control that you use , talk with your healthcare provider or gynecologist to be sure that you choose another acceptable form of birth control .
See the chart below for Acceptable Birth Control Options during treatment with OPSUMIT .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not have unprotected sex .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist right away if you have unprotected sex or if you think your birth control has failed .
Your healthcare provider may talk with you about using emergency birth control .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you miss a menstrual period or think you may be pregnant .
If you are the parent or caregiver of a female child who started taking OPSUMIT before reaching puberty , you should check your child regularly to see if she is developing signs of puberty .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you notice that she is developing breast buds or any pubic hair .
Your healthcare provider should decide if your child has reached puberty .
Your child may reach puberty before having her first menstrual period .
Females can only receive OPSUMIT through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) Program .
If you are a female who can get pregnant , you must talk to your healthcare provider , understand the benefits and risks of OPSUMIT , and agree to all of the instructions in the OPSUMIT REMS Program .
Males can receive OPSUMIT without taking part in the OPSUMIT REMS Program .
What is OPSUMIT ?
• OPSUMIT is a prescription medicine used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) , which is high blood pressure in the arteries of your lungs .
• OPSUMIT can improve your ability to exercise , improve some of your symptoms , and help slow down the progression of your disease .
OPSUMIT can also lower your chance of being hospitalized for PAH .
• It is not known if OPSUMIT is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take OPSUMIT ?
Do not take OPSUMIT if you are pregnant , plan to become pregnant , or become pregnant during treatment with OPSUMIT .
OPSUMIT can cause serious birth defects ( see the Medication Guide section above called " What is the most important information I should know about OPSUMIT ? " )
.
Do not take OPSUMIT if you are allergic to macitentan or any of the ingredients in OPSUMIT .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in OPSUMIT .
Tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions and all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
OPSUMIT and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Do not start any new medicine until you check with your healthcare provider .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take an HIV medicine .
How should I take OPSUMIT ?
OPSUMIT will be mailed to you by a specialty pharmacy .
Your healthcare provider will give you complete details .
• Take OPSUMIT exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not stop taking OPSUMIT unless your healthcare provider tells you .
• You can take OPSUMIT with or without food .
• Do not split , crush , or chew OPSUMIT tablets .
• If you take too much OPSUMIT , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• If you miss a dose of OPSUMIT , take it as soon as you remember that day .
Take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
What should I avoid while taking OPSUMIT ?
• Do not get pregnant while taking OPSUMIT .
See the serious birth defects section of the Medication Guide above called " What is the most important information I should know about OPSUMIT ? "
If you miss a menstrual period , or think you might be pregnant , call your healthcare provider right away .
• It is not known if OPSUMIT passes into your breastmilk .
You should not breastfeed if you take OPSUMIT .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take OPSUMIT .
What are the possible side effects of OPSUMIT ?
OPSUMIT can cause serious side effects , including : • Serious birth defects .
See " What is the most important information I should know about OPSUMIT ? "
• Some medicines that are like OPSUMIT can cause liver problems .
Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your liver before you start taking OPSUMIT .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following symptoms of liver problems while taking OPSUMIT .
• nausea or vomiting • pain in the upper right stomach • tiredness • loss of appetite • yellowing of your skin or whites of your eyes • dark urine • fever • itching • Fluid retention can happen within weeks after starting OPSUMIT .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any unusual weight gain or swelling of your ankles or legs .
Your healthcare provider will look for the cause of any fluid retention .
• Low red blood cell levels ( anemia ) can occur with OPSUMIT treatment , usually during the first weeks after starting therapy .
In some cases a blood transfusion may be needed , but this is not common .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your red blood cells before starting OPSUMIT .
Your healthcare provider may also need to do these tests during treatment with OPSUMIT .
• Decreased sperm count .
OPSUMIT , and other medicines like OPSUMIT , may cause decreased sperm counts in men who take these medicines .
A decreased sperm count may affect the ability to father a child .
Tell your healthcare provider if being able to have children is important to you .
The most common side effects of OPSUMIT are : • Stuffy nose or sore throat • Irritation of the airways ( bronchitis ) • Headache • Flu • Urinary tract infection Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of OPSUMIT .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OPSUMIT ?
• Store OPSUMIT tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep OPSUMIT and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about OPSUMIT Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use OPSUMIT for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OPSUMIT to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about OPSUMIT .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about OPSUMIT that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 ( 1 - 800 - JANSSEN ) , or visit www . OPSUMIT . com .
What are the ingredients in OPSUMIT ?
Active ingredient : macitentan Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , povidone , and sodium starch glycolate Type A .
The tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing polyvinyl alcohol , soya lecithin , talc , titanium dioxide , and xanthan gum .
Manufactured for : Actelion Pharmaceuticals US , Inc . , a Janssen Pharmaceutical Company Titusville , NJ 08560 , USA For patent information : www . janssenpatents . com © 2013 – 2019 Actelion Pharmaceuticals US , Inc .
All rights reserved .
JN20220725 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Tablet Bottle Carton NDC 66215 - 501 - 30 Opsumit ® ( macitentan ) tablets 10 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient Rx only 30 film - coated tablets janssen [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
