SPL UNCLASSIFIED ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP DESCRIPTION Atropine is chemically 1 α H , 5 α H - Tropan - 3 α - ol ( ± ) - tropate ( ester ) , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atropine rarely occurs as such in any of the plants and has been prepared by synthesis .
It is usually employed in the form of atropine sulfate ( the sulfate [ 2 : 1 ] monohydrate salt of atropine ) , which has much greater solubility in water .
Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP , is a sterile aqueous solution of atropine sulfate .
Each mL contains atropine sulfate , 0 . 1 mg ; sodium chloride , 8 . 8 mg , for isotonicity ; citric acid , 0 . 63 mg , and sodium citrate , 0 . 29 mg , as buffers .
May contain additional citric acid and / or sodium citrate for pH adjustment ( 3 . 0 - 6 . 5 ) .
The air above the liquid in the container has been displaced by nitrogen gas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Atropine inhibits the muscarinic actions of acetylcholine at postganglionic parasympathetic neuroeffector sites including smooth muscle , secretory glands and CNS sites .
Large doses may block nicotinic receptors at the autonomic ganglia and at the neuromuscular junction .
Specific anticholinergic responses are dose - related .
Small doses of atropine inhibit salivary and bronchial secretions and sweating ; moderate doses dilate the pupil , inhibit accommodation and increase the heart rate ( vagolytic effect ) ; larger doses will decrease motility of the GI and urinary tracts ; very large doses will inhibit gastric acid secretion .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP , may be given parenterally as a pre - anesthetic medication in surgical patients to reduce salivation and bronchial secretions .
It may also be used to suppress vagal activity associated with the use of halogenated hydrocarbons during inhalation anesthesia and reflex excitation arising from mechanical stimulation during surgery .
The antispasmodic action of atropine is useful in pylorospasm and other spastic conditions of the gastrointestinal tract .
For ureteral and biliary colic , atropine concomitantly with morphine may be indicated .
Atropine relaxes the upper GI tract and colon during hypotonic radiography .
In poisoning by the organic phosphate cholinesterase inhibitors found in certain insecticides and by chemical warfare nerve gases , large doses of atropine relieve the muscarine - like symptoms and some of the central nervous system manifestations .
It is also used as an antidote for mushroom poisoning due to muscarine in certain species such as Amanita muscaria .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Atropine Sulfate is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to this drug .
Ocular : Narrow - angle glaucoma ; adhesions ( synechiae ) between the iris and lens of the eye .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage .
GI : Obstructive disease ( e . g . , achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , or pyloric obstruction , cardiospasm , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus ; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; hepatic disease .
GU : Obstructive uropathy ( e . g . , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; renal disease .
Musculoskeletal : Myasthenia gravis .
WARNINGS Heat prostration can occur with anticholinergic drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) in the presence of a high environmental temperature .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
Treatment of diarrhea with these drugs is inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Usage in the elderly : Elderly patients may react with excitement , agitation , drowsiness and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of anticholinergic drugs .
Usage in gastric ulcer may produce a delay in gastric emptying time and may complicate such therapy ( antral stasis ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : Potentially hazardous tasks : Atropine may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision ; patients should observe caution while driving or performing other tasks requiring alertness .
Atropine should be used with caution in : CNS : Autonomic neuropathy .
Ocular : Glaucoma , light irides .
If there is mydriasis and photophobia , dark glasses should be worn .
Atropine should be used with caution in patients over 40 years of age because of the increased incidence of glaucoma .
GI : Hepatic disease ; early evidence of ileus , as in peritonitis ; ulcerative colitis ( large doses may suppress intestinal motility and precipitate or aggravate toxic megacolon ) ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis ( anticholinergics may aggravate it ) .
GU : Renal disease ; prostatic hypertrophy .
Patients with prostatism can have dysuria may require catheterization .
Endocrine : Hyperthyroidism .
Cardiovascular : Coronary heart disease ; congestive heart failure ; cardiac arrhythmias ; tachycardia ; hypertension .
Usage in biliary tract disease : The use of atropine should not be relied upon in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Special risk patients : Atropine should be used cautiously in infants , small children and persons with Down ’ s syndrome , brain damage or spasticity .
Pulmonary : Debilitated patients with chronic lung disease ; reduction in bronchial secretions can lead to inspissation and formation of bronchial plugs .
Atropine should be used cautiously in patients with asthma or allergies .
Drug Interactions : Antihistamines , antipsychotics , antiparkinson drugs , alphaprodine , buclizine , meperidine , orphenadrine , benzodiazepines and tricyclic antidepressants may enhance the anticholinergic effects of atropine and its derivatives .
Nitrates , nitrites , alkalinizing agents , primidone , thioxanthenes , methylphenidate , disopyramide , procainamide and quinidine may also potentiate side effects .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors block detoxification of atropine , and thus , potentiate its actions .
Concurrent long - term therapy with corticosteroids or haloperidol may increase intraocular pressure .
Atropine may antagonize the miotic actions of cholinesterase inhibitors .
The bronchial relaxation produced by sympathomimetics is enhanced by atropine .
Inhibition of gastric acid secretion by atropine is antagonized by guanethidine , histamine and reserpine .
Because of the potential for adverse effects , atropine should be used cautiously with digitalis , slow release digoxin tablets , cholinergics and neostigmine .
The I . V . administration of atropine in the presence of cyclopropane anesthesia can result in ventricular arrhythmias .
Atropine may enhance nitrofurantoin and thiazide - diuretic bioavailability by slowing GI motility .
The effects of metoclopramide on GI motility are antagonized by atropine .
Usage in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effect - Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in mice at doses of 50 mg per kg of body weight have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to atropine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Usage in Lactation : Atropine may be excreted in milk , causing infant toxicity , and may reduce breast milk production .
Documentation is lacking or conflicting .
Safety for use in nursing mothers has not been established .
Usage in Children : ( See DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION recommendations under “ Usual Pediatric Dosage ” ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS GI : Xerostomia ; altered taste perception ; nausea ; vomiting ; dysphagia ; heartburn , constipation ; bloated feeling ; paralytic ileus ; gastroesophageal reflux .
GU : Urinary hesitancy and retention ; impotence .
Ocular : Blurred vision ; mydriasis ; photophobia ; cycloplegia ; increased intraocular pressure .
Cardiovascular : Palpitations ; bradycardia ( following low doses of atropine ) ; tachycardia ( after higher doses ) .
CNS : Headache ; flushing ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; fever .
Elderly patients may exhibit mental confusion or excitement to even small doses .
Large doses may produce CNS stimulation ( restlessness , tremor ) .
Dermatologic - Hypersensitivity : Severe allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations .
Other : Suppression of lactation ; nasal congestion ; decreased sweating .
Complete anhidrosis cannot occur because large doses would be required , producing severe side effects from parasympathetic paralysis .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms : GI : Dry mouth ; dysphagia ; vomiting ; nausea ; abdominal distention .
CNS : Theoretically , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and paralysis .
CNS stimulation ; delirium ; drowsiness ; stupor ; fever ; dizziness ; headache ; restlessness ; seizures ; depression ; tremor ; hallucinations ; ataxia ; coma ; psychotic behavior ; other signs of an acute organic psychosis .
Cardiovascular : Circulatory failure ; rapid pulse and respiration ; tachycardia with weak pulse ; hypertension ; palpitations .
GU : Urinary urgency with difficulty in micturition .
Ocular : Blurred vision ; photophobia ; dilated pupils .
Miscellaneous : Leukocytosis , flushed hot dry skin , rash ; respiratory failure .
Treatment : Administer supportive and symptomatic therapy as indicated .
Physostigmine 1 to 3 mg I . V . has been utilized to reverse anticholinergic effects .
However , profound bradycardia , asystole and seizures may occur .
The role of physostigmine is not clear ; its use should be avoided if other therapeutic agents are successful in reversing cardiac dysrhythmias .
Neostigmine methylsulfate 0 . 5 to 2 mg I . V . , repeated as needed , may be given .
Diazepam or short - acting barbiturates may control excitement .
Hemodialysis is ineffective for atropine poisoning .
Hyperpyrexia may be treated with physical cooling measures .
If photophobia occurs , the patient may be kept in a dark room .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Usual adult dosage : Antimuscarinic : Intramuscular , intravenous , or subcutaneous , 400 to 600 μg ( 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg ) every four to six hours .
Arrhythmias : Intravenous , 400 μg ( 0 . 4 mg ) to 1 mg every one to two hours as needed , up to a maximum of 2 mg .
Gastrointestinal radiography : Intramuscular , 1 mg .
Preanesthesia ( antisialagogue ) : Intramuscular , 200 to 600 μg ( 0 . 2 to 0 . 6 mg ) one - half to one hour before surgery .
Cholinergic adjunct ( curariform block ) : Intravenous , 600 μg ( 0 . 6 mg ) to 1 . 2 mg administered a few minutes before or concurrently with 500 μg ( 0 . 5 mg ) to 2 mg of neostigmine methylsulfate , using separate syringes .
Antidote ( to cholinesterase inhibitors ) : Intravenous , 2 to 4 mg initially , then 2 mg repeated every five to ten minutes until muscarinic symptoms disappear or signs of atropine toxicity appear .
Antidote ( to muscarine in mushroom poisoning ) : Intramuscular or intravenous , 1 to 2 mg every hour until respiratory effects subside .
Antidote ( to organophosphate pesticides ) : Intramuscular or intravenous 1 to 2 mg , repeated in twenty to thirty minutes as soon as cyanosis has cleared .
Continue dosage until definite improvement occurs and is maintained , sometimes for two days or more .
Usual pediatric dosage Antimuscarinic : Subcutaneous , 10 μg ( 0 . 01 mg ) per kg of body weight , not to exceed 400 μg ( 0 . 4 mg ) , or 300 μg ( 0 . 3 mg ) per square meter of body surface , every four to six hours .
Arrhythmias : Intravenous , 10 to 30 μg ( 0 . 01 to 0 . 03 mg ) per kg of body weight .
Preanesthesia ( antisialagogue ) : or Preanesthesia ( antiarrhythmic ) : Subcutaneous – Children weighing up to 3 kg : 100 μg ( 0 . 1 mg ) .
Children weighing 7 to 9 kg : 200 μg ( 0 . 2 mg ) .
Children weighing 12 to 16 kg : 300 μg ( 0 . 3 mg ) .
Children weighing 20 to 27 kg : 400 μg ( 0 . 4 mg ) .
Children weighing 32 kg : 500 μg ( 0 . 5 mg ) .
Children weighing 41 kg ; 600 μg ( 0 . 6 mg ) .
Antidote ( to cholinesterase inhibitors ) : Intravenous or intramuscular , 1 mg initially , then 0 . 5 to 1 mg every five to ten minutes until muscarinic symptoms disappear or signs of atropine toxicity appear .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED ATROPINE SULFATE INJ .
USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1378 - 1 ATROPINE SULFATE INJ .
USP ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) 1 mg per 10 mL LUER - JET ™ SYR HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP .
In unit - use packages containing the Luer - Jet Luer - Lock Prefilled Syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ten cartons per package .
Syringe Assembly Directions : [ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Rx Only INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED So .
El Monte , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company Rev . 2 - 13 © INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED 2013 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SYRINGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BOX LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED BOX LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
