SPL UNCLASSIFIED Dextrose Injection , USP Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION Dextrose Injection , USP solutions are sterile and nonpyrogenic .
They are parenteral solutions containing various concentrations of dextrose in water for injection intended for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , contains dextrose , hydrous 5 g in water for injection .
The caloric value is 170 kcal / L .
The osmolarity is 252 mOsmol / L ( calc . )
, which is slightly hypotonic .
Each 100 mL of 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP , contains dextrose , hydrous 10 g in water for injection .
The caloric value is 340 kcal / L .
The osmolarity is 505 mOsmol / L ( calc . )
, which is hypertonic .
The pH for both concentrations is 4 . 3 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) .
The solutions contain no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and each is intended only as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
The solutions are parenteral fluid and nutrient replenishers .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , these solutions provide a source of water and carbohydrate .
Isotonic and hypertonic concentrations of dextrose are suitable for parenteral maintenance of water requirements when salt is not needed or should be avoided .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirements range from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Intravenous solutions containing dextrose are indicated for parenteral replenishment of fluid and minimal carbohydrate calories as required by the clinical condition of the patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dextrose Injection without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility that pseudoagglutination of red cells may occur .
WARNINGS Excessive administration of potassium - free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with Dextrose Injection , USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Dextrose Injection , USP is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolarity and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open : Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
To Add Medication 1 .
Prepare additive port .
2 .
Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
3 .
The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
4 .
Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) 1 .
Close flow control clamp of administration set .
2 .
Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
3 .
Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated .
NOTE : When using a vented administration set , replace bacterial retentive air filter with piercing pin cover .
Insert piercing pin with twisting motion until shoulder of air filter housing rests against the outlet port flange .
4 .
Suspend container from hanger .
5 .
Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
6 .
Attach venipuncture device to set .
7 .
Open clamp to expel air from set and venipuncture device .
Close clamp .
8 .
Perform venipuncture .
9 .
Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1413 - 1 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 50 mL BAG ( QUAD PACK ) HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers in various sizes and concentrations as shown in the accompanying Table .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : June , 2010 Printed in USA EN - 2531 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BAG LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SEERIALIZED LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
