SPL UNCLASSIFIED BUFFERED To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Penicillin G Potassium and other antibacterial drugs , Penicillin G Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP is sterile penicillin G potassium powder for reconstitution .
It is an antibacterial agent intended for intravenous or intramuscularly use .
Chemically , Penicillin G Potassium is monopotassium ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 6 - ( 2 - phenylacetamido ) - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo ( 3 . 2 . 0 ) heptane - 2 - carboxylate , and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Penicillin G potassium , a water soluble benzylpenicillin , is a white to almost white crystalline powder which is almost odorless and / or after reconstitution a colorless solution .
The pH of freshly constituted solutions usually ranges from 6 to 8 . 5 .
Sodium citrate and citric acid have been added as a buffer .
Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP is supplied in vials equivalent to 1 , 000 , 000 units ( 1 million units ) , 5 , 000 , 000 units ( 5 million units ) , or 20 , 000 , 000 units ( 20 million units ) of penicillin G as the potassium salt .
Each million unit contains approximately 7 . 9 milligrams of sodium ( 0 . 34 mEq ) and 65 . 6 milligrams of potassium ( 1 . 68 mEq ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After an intravenous infusion of penicillin G , peak serum concentrations are attained immediately after completion of the infusion .
In a study of ten patients administered a single 5 million unit dose of penicillin G intravenously over 3 to 5 minutes , the mean serum concentrations were 400 mcg / mL , 273 mcg / mL and 3 mcg / mL at 5 to 6 minutes , 10 minutes and 4 hours after completion of the injection , respectively .
In a separate study , five healthy adults were administered one million units of penicillin G intravenously , either as a bolus over 4 minutes or as an infusion over 60 minutes .
The mean serum concentration eight minutes after completion of the bolus was 45 mcg / mL and eight minutes after completion of the infusion was 14 . 4 mcg / mL .
The mean β - phase serum half - life of penicillin G administered by the intravenous route in ten patients with normal renal function was 42 minutes , with a range of 31 to 50 minutes .
The clearance of penicillin G in normal individuals is predominantly via the kidney .
The renal clearance , which is extremely rapid , is the result of glomerular filtration and active tubular transport , with the latter route predominating .
Urinary recovery is reported to be 58 to 85 % of the administered dose .
Renal clearance of penicillin is delayed in premature infants , neonates and in the elderly due to decreased renal function .
The serum half - life of penicillin G correlates inversely with age and clearance of creatinine and ranges from 3 . 2 hours in infants 0 to 6 days of age to 1 . 4 hours in infants 14 days of age or older .
Nonrenal clearance includes hepatic metabolism and , to a lesser extent , biliary excretion .
The latter routes become more important with renal impairment .
Probenecid blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillin .
Therefore , the concurrent administration of probenecid prolongs the elimination of penicillin G and , consequently , increases the serum concentrations .
Penicillin G is distributed to most areas of the body including lung , liver , kidney , muscle , bone and placenta .
In the presence of inflammation , levels of penicillin in abscesses , middle ear , pleural , peritoneal and synovial fluids are sufficient to inhibit most susceptible bacteria .
Penetration into the eye , brain , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) or prostate is poor in the absence of inflammation .
With inflamed meninges , the penetration of penicillin G into the CSF improves , such that the CSF / serum ratio is 2 to 6 % .
Inflammation also enhances its penetration into the pericardial fluid .
Penicillin G is actively secreted into the bile resulting in levels at least 10 times those achieved simultaneously in serum .
Penicillin G penetrates poorly into human polymorphonuclear leukocytes .
In the presence of impaired renal function , the β - phase serum half - life of penicillin G is prolonged .
β - phase serum half - lives of one to two hours were observed in azotemic patients with serum creatinine concentrations < 3 mg / 100 mL and ranged as high as 20 hours in anuric patients .
A linear relationship , including the lowest range of renal function , is found between the serum elimination rate constant and renal function as measured by creatinine clearance .
In patients with altered renal function , the presence of hepatic insufficiency further alters the elimination of penicillin G .
In one study , the serum half - lives in two anuric patients ( excreting < 400 mL urine / day ) were 7 . 2 and 10 . 1 hours .
A totally anuric patient with terminal hepatic cirrhosis had a penicillin half - life of 30 . 5 hours , while another patient with anuria and liver disease had a serum half - life of 16 . 4 hours .
The dosage of penicillin G should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment , with additional modifications when hepatic disease accompanies the renal impairment .
Hemodialysis has been shown to reduce penicillin G serum levels .
Microbiology Penicillin G is bactericidal against penicillin - susceptible microorganisms during the stage of active multiplication .
It acts by inhibiting biosynthesis of cell - wall mucopeptide .
It is not active against the penicillinase - producing bacteria , which include many strains of staphylococci .
Penicillin G is highly active in vitro against staphylococci ( except penicillinase - producing strains ) , streptococci ( groups A , B , C , G , H , L and M ) , pneumococci and Nelsseria meningitidis .
Other organisms susceptible in vitro to penicillin G are Nelsseria gonorrhoeae , Corynebacterium diphtheriae , Bacillus anthracis , clostridia , Actinomyces species , Spirillum minus , Streptobacillus monillformis , Listeria monocytogenes , and leptospira ; Treponema pallidum is extremely susceptible .
Some species of gram - negative bacilli were previously considered susceptible to very high intravenous doses of penicillin G ( up to 80 million units / day ) including some strains of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , salmonella , shigella , Enterobacter aerogenes ( formerly Aerobacter aerogenes ) and Alcaligenes faecalis .
Penicillin G is no longer considered a drug of choice for infections caused by these organisms .
Susceptibility Testing Diffusion techniques The use of antibiotic disk susceptibility test methods which measure zone diameter give an accurate estimation of antibiotic susceptibility .
One such standard procedure1 which has been recommended for use with disks to test susceptibility of organisms to penicillin G uses the 10 Unit ( U ) penicillin disk .
Interpretation involves the correlation of the diameters obtained in the disk test with the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for penicillin G . Reports from the laboratory giving results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 10 U penicillin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : [ MULTIMEDIA ] A report of “ susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited by generally achievable blood levels .
A report of “ moderately susceptible ” suggests that the organism would be susceptible if high dosage is used or if the infection is confined to tissue and fluids ( e . g . , urine ) in which high antibiotic levels are obtained .
A report of “ resistant ” indicates that achievable concentrations are unlikely to be inhibitory and other therapy should be selected .
Standardized procedures require the use of laboratory control organisms .
The 10 U penicillin G disk should give the following zone diameters : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dilution techniques When using a standardized dilution method2 ( broth , agar , microdilution ) or equivalent an organism may be considered susceptible if the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) values are interpreted according to the following table : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MIC test results should be interpreted according to the concentration of penicillin G that can be attained in blood ( serum ) , tissue , and body fluids .
As with standard diffusion techniques , dilution methods require the use of laboratory control organisms .
Standard penicillin G powder should provide the following MIC values : [ MULTIMEDIA ] For anaerobic bacteria the MIC of penicillin G can be determined by agar or broth dilution ( including microdilution ) techniques3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS & USAGE Therapy Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below .
Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be done before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing infection and to determine their susceptibility to penicillin G . Therapy with Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP may be initiated before results of such tests are known when there is reason to believe the infection may involve any of the organisms listed below , however , once these results become available , appropriate therapy should be continued .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Penicillin G Potassium and other antibacterial drugs , Penicillin G Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reaction to any penicillin is a contraindication .
WARNINGS SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY ( ANAPHYLACTIC ) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY .
THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY AND / OR A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS .
BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH PENICILLIN G , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS , CEPHALOSPORINS , OR OTHER ALLERGENS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS , PENICILLIN G SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including penicillin G , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis ” .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug effective against C . difficile .
PRECAUTIONS General Penicillin should be used with caution in individuals with histories of significant allergies and / or asthma ( see WARNINGS ) .
Whenever allergic reactions occur , penicillin should be withdrawn unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is lifethreatening and amenable only to penicillin therapy .
Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP by the intravenous route in high doses ( above 10 million units ) should be administered slowly because of the potential adverse effects of electrolyte imbalance from the potassium content of the penicillin .
Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP contains approximately 6 . 8 milligrams of sodium ( 0 . 3 mEq ) and 65 . 6 milligrams of potassium ( 1 . 68 mEq ) per million units of penicillin G .
The use of antibiotics may promote overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Indwelling intravenous catheters encourage superinfections .
Should superinfection occur , appropriate measures should be taken .
When indicated , incision and drainage or other surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
Prescribing Penicillin G Potassium in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Laboratory Tests Periodic assessment of organ system function , including frequent evaluation of electrolyte balance , hepatic , renal and hematopoietic systems , and cardiac and vascular status should be performed during prolonged therapy with high doses of intravenous penicillin G ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
If any impairment of function is suspected or known to exist , a reduction in the total dosage should be considered ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In suspected staphylococcal infections , proper laboratory studies , including susceptibility tests should be performed .
All infections due to Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci should be treated for at least 10 days .
Patients being treated for gonococcal infection should have a serologic test for syphilis before receiving penicillin .
All cases of penicillin treated syphilis should receive adequate follow - up including clinical and serological examinations .
The recommended follow - up varies with the stage of syphilis being treated .
See CDC recommendations . 4 Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials ( i . e . , chloramphenicol , erythromycins , sulfonamides or tetracyclines ) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin , and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided .
This has been documented in vitro , however , the clinical significance of this interaction is not well - documented .
Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins .
Other drugs may compete with Penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half - life of penicillin .
These drugs include : aspirin , phenylbutazone , sulfonamides , indomethacin , thiazide diuretics , furosemide and ethacrynic acid .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions After treatment with penicillin G , a false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with Benedict ’ s solution , Fehling ’ s solution or Clinitest ® tablet , but not with the enzyme - based tests , such as Clinistix ® .
Penicillin G has been associated with pseudoproteinuria by certain test methods .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with this drug .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in the mouse , rat , and rabbit have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to penicillin G . Human experience with the penicillins during pregnancy has not shown any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women showing conclusively that harmful effects of these drugs on the fetus can be excluded .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Penicillins are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when penicillins are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Incompletely developed renal function in newborns may delay elimination of penicillin ; therefore , appropriate reductions in the dosage and frequency of administration should be made in these patients .
All newborns treated with penicillins should be monitored closely for clinical and laboratory evidence of toxic or adverse effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric doses are generally determined on a weight basis and should be calculated for each patient individually .
Recommended guidelines for pediatric dosages are presented in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
The potential for toxic effects in children from chemicals that may leach from the single dose premixed intravenous preparation in plastic containers has not been evaluated .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Penicillin G Potassium should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Penicillin G Potassium is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Penicillin G Potassium or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch - Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction , that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections ( i . e . , Lyme disease and Relapsing fever ) .
The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours .
It is characterized by fever , chills , myalgias , headache , exacerbation of cutaneous lesions , tachycardia , hyperventiliation , vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension .
The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochaete of host stable pyrogen .
Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0 . 7 to 10 percent in different studies ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin , but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated .
In such cases , it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines .
Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically – Immediate and delayed .
Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angloneurotic edema , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , hypotension , vascular collapse and death ( see WARNINGS ) .
Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy , but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy .
Another type of immediate reaction , an accelerated reaction , may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria , pruritus , fever and , occasionally , laryngeal edema .
Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy .
Manifestations include serum sickness - like symptoms , i . e . , fever , malaise , urticaria , myalgia , arthralgia , abdominal pain and various skin rashes , ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis .
Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions .
Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment .
Nausea , vomiting , stomatitis , black or hairy tongue , and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur , especially during oral therapy .
Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia , which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued ; Coombspositive hemolytic anemia , an uncommon reaction , occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units / day and who have previously received large doses of the drug ; and with large doses of penicillin , a bleeding diathesis , can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction .
Metabolic Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP ( 1 million units contains 0 . 3 mEq of sodium and 1 . 68 mEq of potassium ) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances , i . e . , hyperkalemia , when given intravenously in large doses .
Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia , myoclonic twitches , seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses , and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function .
Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G . Manifestations of this reaction may include fever , rash , eosinophilia , proteinuria , eosinophiluria , hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen .
Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients .
Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur with intravenous administration .
OVERDOSAGE Dose related toxicity may arise with the use of massive doses of intravenous penicillins ( 40 to 100 million units per day ) , particularly in patients with severe renal impairment ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The manifestations may include agitation , confusion , asterixis , hallucinations , stupor , coma , multifocal myoclonus , seizures and encephalopathy .
Hyperkalemia is also possible ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS – Metabolic ) .
In case of overdosage , discontinue penicillin , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures as required .
If necessary , hemodialysis may be used to reduce blood levels of penicillin G , although the degree of effectiveness of this procedure is questionable .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRTION Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP may be given intravenously or intramuscularly .
The usual dose recommendations are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pediatric patients This product should not be administered to patients requiring less than one million units per dose .
( see PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Renal Impairment Penicillin G is relatively nontoxic , and dosage adjustments are generally required only in cases of severe renal impairment .
The recommended dosage regimens are as follows : Creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ; administer a full loading dose ( see recommended dosages in the tables above ) followed by one - half of the loading dose every 8 to 10 hours .
Uremic patients with a creatinine clearance greater than 10 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ; administer a full loading dose ( see recommended dosages in the tables above ) followed by one - half of the loading dose every 4 to 5 hours .
Additional dosage modifications should be made in patients with hepatic disease and renal impairment .
For most acute infections , treatment should be continued for at least 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic .
Antibiotic therapy for Group A β - hemolytic streptococcal infections should be maintained for at least 10 days to reduce the risk of rheumatic fever .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Preparation of Solution Solutions of penicillin should be prepared as follows : Loosen powder .
Hold vial horizontally and rotate it while slowly directing the stream of diluent against the wall of the vial .
Shake vial vigorously after all the diluent has been added .
Depending on the route of administration , use Sterile Water for Injection , USP or Sterile Isotonic Sodium Chloride Solution for Parenteral use .
Note : Penicillins are rapidly inactivated in the presence of carbohydrate solutions at alkaline pH . Reconstitution The following table shows the amount of solvent required for solution of various concentrations : [ MULTIMEDIA ] When the required volume of solvent is greater than the capacity of the vial , the penicillin can be dissolved by first injecting only a portion of the solvent into the vial , then withdrawing the resultant solution and combining it with the remainder of the solvent in a larger sterile container .
Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP is highly water soluble .
It may be dissolved in small amounts of Water for Injection , or Sterile Isotonic Sodium Chloride Solution for Parenteral Use .
All solutions should be stored in a refrigerator .
When refrigerated , penicillin solutions may be stored for seven days without significant loss of potency .
Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection may be given intramuscularly or by continuous intravenous drip for dosages of 500 , 000 , 1 , 000 , 000 or 5 , 000 , 000 units .
It is also suitable for intrapleural , intraarticular , and other local installations .
THE 20 , 000 , 000 UNIT ( 20 MILLION UNIT ) DOSAGE MAY BE ADMINISTERED BY INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY .
( 1 ) Intramuscular Injection : Keep total volume of injection small .
The intramuscular route is the preferred route of administration .
Solutions containing up to 100 , 000 units of penicillin per mL of diluent may be used with a minimum of discomfort .
Greater concentration of penicillin G per mL is physically possible and may be employed where therapy demands .
When large doses are required , it may be advisable to administer aqueous solutions of penicillin by means of continuous intravenous drip .
( 2 ) Continuous Intravenous Drip : Determine the volume of fluid and rate of its administration required by the patient in a 24 - hour period in the usual manner for fluid therapy , and add the appropriate daily dosage of penicillin to this fluid .
For example , if an adult patient requires 2 liters of fluid in 24 hours and a daily dosage of 10 million units of penicillin , add 5 million units of 1 liter and adjust the rate of flow so the liter will be infused in 12 hours .
( 3 ) Intrapleural or Other Local Infusion : If fluid is aspirated , give infusion in a volume equal to 1 / 4 or 1 / 2 the amount of fluid aspirated , otherwise , prepare as for an intramuscular injection .
( 4 ) Intrathecal Use : The intrathecal use of penicillin in meningitis must be highly individualized .
It should be employed only with full consideration of the possible irritating effects of penicillin when used by this route .
The preferred route of therapy in bacterial meningitides is intravenous , supplemented by intramuscular injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED BUFFERED PENICILLIN G POTASSIUM FOR INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1436 - 1 BUFFERED PENICILLIN G POTASSIUM FOR INJECTION , USP 5 , 000 , 000 UNITS ( 5 MILLION UNITS ) HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection , USP , is supplied in dry powder form in vials containing 1 , 000 , 000 units ( 1 million units ) × 10 ’ s ( NDC 0781 - 6134 - 95 ) , 5 , 000 , 000 units ( 5 million units ) × 10 ’ s ( NDC 0781 - 6135 - 95 ) , and 20 , 000 , 000 units ( 20 million units ) × 1 ’ s ( NDC 0781 - 6136 - 94 ) of crystalline penicillin G as the potassium salt ; buffered with sodium citrate and citric acid to an optimum pH . STORAGE Store the dry powder at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Sterile constituted solution may be kept in refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) for 7 days without significant loss of potency .
REFERENCES 1 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Fourth Edition .
Tentative Standard NCCLS Document M2 - T4 , Vol .
8 , No . 7 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , 1988 .
2 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Second Edition .
Tentative Standard NCCLS Document M7 - T2 , Vol .
8 , No . 8 .
NCCLS , Villanova , PA , 1988 .
3 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria – Second Edition .
Tentative Standard NCCLS Document M11 - T2 , Villanova , PA , 1988 ( or current M11 - A2 ) .
4 .
1989 Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines .
MMWR 38 ( S - 8 ) ; 5 - 14 , Sept . 1 , 1989 .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED 03 - 2015 M 46158430 46158432 Manufactured in Austria by Sandoz GmbH for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SERIALIZED LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
