1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Endari is indicated to reduce the acute complications of sickle cell disease in adult and pediatric patients 5 years of age and older .
ENDARI is an amino acid indicated to reduce the acute complications of sickle cell disease in adult and pediatric patients 5 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 5 grams to 15 grams orally , twice daily based on body weight .
( 2 ) • Each dose of Endari should be mixed in 8 oz .
( 240 mL ) of cold or room temperature beverage or 4 oz .
to 6 oz .
of food before ingestion .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Administer Endari orally , twice per day at the dose based on body weight according to Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Recommended DosingWeight in kilograms Weight in pounds Per dose in grams Per day in grams Packets per dose Packets per day less than 30 less than 66 5 10 1 2 30 to 65 66 to 143 10 20 2 4 greater than 65 greater than 143 15 30 3 6 2 . 2 Preparation of Product Mix Endari immediately before ingestion with 8 oz .
( 240 mL ) of cold or room temperature beverage , such as water , milk or apple juice , or 4 oz .
to 6 oz .
of food such as applesauce or yogurt .
Complete dissolution is not required prior to administration .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral powder : 5 grams of L – glutamine as a white crystalline powder in paper - foil - plastic laminate packets Oral Powder : 5 grams of L - glutamine powder per paper - foil - plastic laminate packet .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 10 % ) are constipation , nausea , headache , abdominal pain , cough , pain in extremity , back pain , and chest pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Emmaus Medical , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 420 - 6493 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to Endari in 187 patients , including 136 exposed for 6 months and 109 exposed for ≥ 1 year .
Endari was studied in 2 placebo - controlled clinical trials ( a phase 3 study , n = 230 and a phase 2 study , n = 70 ) .
In these trials , patients with sickle cell anemia or sickle β0 - thalassemia were randomized to receive Endari ( n = 187 ) or placebo ( n = 111 ) orally twice daily for 48 weeks followed by 3 weeks of tapering .
Both studies included pediatric and adult patients ( 5 - 58 years of age ) and 54 % were female .
The majority of patients were black ( 97 . 3 % ) , had a diagnosis of sickle cell anemia ( 89 . 9 % ) and were receiving hydroxyurea at baseline ( 63 . 4 % ) .
Treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions was reported in 2 . 7 % ( n = 5 ) of patients receiving Endari .
These adverse reactions included one case each of hypersplenism , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , burning sensation , and hot flash .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in both treatment groups , more frequently in the placebo group , and were consistent with the underlying disease .
Three deaths ( 3 / 187 = 1 . 6 % ) occurred during the study in the Endari treatment group as compared to none in the placebo treatment group .
None of the deaths were considered to be related to Endari treatment .
Adverse reactions occurring in greater than 10 % of patients treated with Endari are shown in Table 2 below .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence > 10 % in Clinical Studies of EndariAdverse reaction Endari N = 187 ( % ) Placebo N = 111 ( % ) Constipation 21 18 Nausea 19 14 Headache 18 15 Abdominal Pain [ 1 ] 17 16 Cough 16 14 Pain in extremity 13 7 Back pain 12 5 Chest pain 12 8 [ 1 ] Abdominal pain = abdominal pain and abdominal pain , upper 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Endari use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
Animal reproduction studies were not conducted with Endari .
Adverse outcomes in pregnancy occur regardless of the health of the mother or the use of medications .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of Endari in human milk , the effect on the breastfed infant or the effect on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits from breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Endari and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Endari or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Endari have been established in pediatric patients 5 years and older .
Use of Endari is supported by evidence from 2 placebo - controlled studies in adult and pediatric patients with sickle cell disease .
The clinical studies enrolled 110 pediatric patients in the following age groups : 46 children ( 5 years up to less than 12 years ) and 64 adolescents ( 12 years to less than 17 years ) .
The safety and effectiveness of Endari in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease younger than 5 years old has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Endari did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of L - glutamine at about 20 g / kg to 22 g / kg , 8 g / kg to 11 g / kg , and 19 g / kg were lethal in mice , rats , and rabbits , respectively .
Supportive measures should be undertaken in the event of overdose of Endari .
11 DESCRIPTION Endari ( L - glutamine ) is an amino acid .
L - glutamine is designated chemically as ( S ) - 2 - aminoglutaramic acid , L - glutamic acid 5 - amide , or ( S ) - 2 , 5 - diamino - 5 - oxopentanoic acid .
The molecular formula is C5H10N2O3 with the molecular weight of 146 . 15 g / mol and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Endari is formulated as a white crystalline powder and is packaged as 5 grams in a paper - foil - plastic laminate packet for oral administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of the amino acid L - glutamine in treating sickle cell disease ( SCD ) is not fully understood .
Oxidative stress phenomena are involved in the pathophysiology of SCD .
Sickle red blood cells ( RBCs ) are more susceptible to oxidative damage than normal RBCs , which may contribute to the chronic hemolysis and vaso - occlusive events associated with SCD .
The pyridine nucleotides , NAD + and its reduced form NADH , play roles in regulating and preventing oxidative damage in RBCs .
L - glutamine may improve the NAD redox potential in sickle RBCs through increasing the availability of reduced glutathione .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In vivo analyses demonstrated that L - glutamine supplementation improved NAD redox potential .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of L - glutamine has been studied in healthy subjects and a variety of disease states .
Relevant results from published literature are summarized below .
Absorption Following single - dose oral administration of L - glutamine at 0 . 1 g / kg , mean peak L - glutamine concentration was 1028 µM ( or 150 mcg / mL ) occurring approximately 30 minutes after administration .
The pharmacokinetics following multiple oral doses has not been characterized .
Distribution After an intravenous ( IV ) bolus dose , the volume of distribution was estimated to be approximately 200 mL / kg .
Elimination After an intravenous bolus dose , the terminal half - life of L - glutamine was approximately one hour .
Metabolism Endogenous L - glutamine participates in various metabolic activities , including the formation of glutamate , and synthesis of proteins , nucleotides , and amino sugars .
Exogenous L - glutamine is anticipated to undergo similar metabolism .
Excretion Metabolism is the major route of elimination for L - glutamine .
Although L - glutamine is eliminated by glomerular filtration , it is almost completely reabsorbed by the renal tubules .
Specific Populations The safety of Endari has not been established in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions No drug interaction studies have been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of L - glutamine .
L - glutamine was not mutagenic in a bacterial mutagenicity ( Ames ) assay , nor clastogenic in a chromosome aberration assay in mammalian ( Chinese Hamster Lung CHL / IU ) cells .
Animal reproduction studies and its potential for impairment of fertility have not been conducted with L - glutamine .
It is also not known whether L - glutamine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or whether it can affect reproductive capacity .
14 Clinical Studies The efficacy of Endari in sickle cell disease was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center clinical trial entitled " A Phase III Safety and Efficacy Study of L - Glutamine to Treat Sickle Cell Disease or Sickle βo - thalassemia " [ NCT01179217 ] ( see Table 3 ) .
The clinical trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of Endari in 230 patients ( 5 to 58 years of age ) with sickle cell anemia or sickle β0 - thalassemia who had 2 or more painful crises within 12 months prior to enrollment .
Eligible patients stabilized on hydroxyurea for at least 3 months continued their therapy throughout the study .
The trial excluded patients who had received blood products within 3 weeks , had renal insufficiency or uncontrolled liver disease , or were pregnant ( or planning pregnancy ) or lactating .
Study patients received Endari or placebo for a treatment duration of 48 weeks followed by 3 weeks of tapering .
Efficacy was demonstrated by a reduction in the number of sickle cell crises through Week 48 and prior to the start of tapering among patients that received Endari compared to patients who received placebo .
This clinical benefit was observed irrespective of hydroxyurea use .
A sickle cell crisis was defined as a visit to an emergency room / medical facility for sickle cell disease - related pain which was treated with a parenterally administered narcotic or parenterally administered ketorolac .
In addition , the occurrence of chest syndrome , priapism , and splenic sequestration were considered sickle cell crises .
Treatment with Endari also resulted in fewer hospitalizations due to sickle cell pain at Week 48 , fewer cumulative days in hospital and a lower incidence of acute chest syndrome .
Table 3 .
Results from the Endari Clinical Trial in Sickle Cell DiseaseEvent Endari ( n = 152 ) Placebo ( n = 78 ) Median number of sickle cell crises ( min , max ) [ 1 ] 3 ( 0 , 15 ) 4 ( 0 , 15 ) Median number of hospitalizations for sickle cell pain ( min , max ) null 2 ( 0 , 14 ) 3 ( 0 , 13 ) Median cumulative days hospitalized ( min , max ) null 6 . 5 ( 0 , 94 ) 11 ( 0 , 187 ) Median time ( days ) to first sickle cell crisis ( 95 % CI ) null , [ 2 ] 84 ( 62 , 109 ) 54 ( 31 , 73 ) Patients with occurrences of acute chest syndrome ( % ) null 13 ( 8 . 6 % ) 18 ( 23 . 1 % ) [ 1 ] Measured through 48 weeks of treatment [ 2 ] Hazard Ratio = 0 . 69 ( 95 % CI = 0 . 52 , 0 . 93 ) , estimated based on unstratified Cox ' s proportional model .
Median time and 95 % CI were estimated based on the Kaplan Meier method .
The recurrent crisis event time analysis ( Figure 1 ) yielded an intensity rate ratio ( IRR ) value of 0 . 75 with 95 % CI = ( 0 . 62 , 0 . 90 ) and ( 0 . 55 , 1 . 01 ) based on unstratified models using the Andersen - Gill and Lin , Wei , Yang and Ying methods , respectively in favor of Endari , suggesting that over the entire 48 - week period , the average cumulative crisis count was reduced by 25 % from the Endari group over the placebo group .
Figure 1 .
Recurrent Event Time for Sickle Cell Crises by Treatment Group [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Andersen - Gill : 95 % CI ( 0 . 62 , 0 . 90 ) ; Lin - Wei - Yang - Ying : 95 % CI ( 0 . 55 , 1 . 01 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Endari is supplied in paper - foil - plastic laminate packets containing 5 grams of L - glutamine white crystalline powder .
• Carton of 60 packets : NDC 42457 - 420 - 60 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) away from direct sunlight .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Dosage and Administration Advise patient to take a missed dose as soon as they remember .
Patient should not double the dose that they take .
Instruct patient to mix each dose in 8 oz .
( 240 mL ) of cold or room temperature beverage or 4 to 6 oz .
of food .
Advise patient that complete dissolution is not required prior to administration .
Manufactured for : Emmaus Medical , Inc Torrance , CA 90503 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ENDARI ® ( en - dar - ee ) ( L - glutamine oral powder ) Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking Endari and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Instructions for Use does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about Endari before you start taking it and at regular checkups .
Endari is usually taken 2 times a day .
Take Endari as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
You will need the following supplies to mix and take Endari : • Your prescribed dose of Endari ( 1 , 2 , or 3 packets as directed by your healthcare provider ) .
• a clean cup or small bowl • a spoon You can mix Endari : • with a liquid , such as water , milk , or apple juice Or • with food , such as applesauce or yogurt [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to mix and take a dose of Endari .
Mixing with Liquid Mixing with Food Step 1 : Fill a cup with 8 ounces ( 240 mL ) of liquid or a small bowl with 4 to 6 ounces of food .
The food or liquid should be cold or room temperature .
Do not use a hot food or liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Find the perforations at the top of each side of the Endari packet .
Use the perforations to fully tear open each Endari packet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Pour the contents of the Endari packet into the cup or bowl .
If more than 1 packet is needed , repeat steps 2 and 3 above for all of the packets needed to prepare your prescribed does of Endari .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Use the spoon to mix the prescribed dose of Endari with the liquid or food .
Endari may not fully dissolve .
You can take your dose of Endari even if it does not fully dissolve .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Drink or eat the prescribed dose of Endari right away after mixing it .
Do not store the Endari mixture for later use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] If you miss a dose of Endari , take the missed dose as soon as you remember .
Do not double the dose to make up for a missed dose .
How should I store Endari ?
• Store Endari at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Endari away from direct sunlight .
Keep Endari and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Manufactured for : Emmaus Medical , Inc .
Torrance , CA 90503 For more information got to www . EnadriRx . com or call 1 - 877 - 420 - 6493 .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 04 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 gram Packet Carton NDC : 42457 - 420 - 60 ENDARI ™ ( L - glutamine oral powder ) Contents : 60 Packets ( 5 grams / packet ) Directions : Mix the contents of each packet with cold or room temperature beverage or food immediately before dosing .
Administer the prescribed amount orally , twice daily , taking no more than 6 packets per day .
Package is not child resistant .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) away from direct sunlight .
Rx Only LOT XX XXX XX XX EXP .
MM / YYYY Manufactured for Emmaus Medical , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
