DESCRIPTION Mebendazole is a ( synthetic ) broad - spectrum anthelmintic available as chewable tablets , each containing 100 mg of mebendazole .
Inactive ingredients are : anhydrous lactose NF , corn starch , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium saccharin , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
Mebendazole is methyl 5 - benzoylbenzimidazole - 2 - carbamate and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C16H13N3O3 Mebendazole is a white to slightly yellow powder with a molecular weight of 295 . 29 .
It is less than 0 . 05 % soluble in water , dilute mineral acid solutions , alcohol , ether and chloroform , but is soluble in formic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following administration of 100 mg twice daily for three consecutive days , plasma levels of mebendazole and its primary metabolite , the 2 - amine , do not exceed 0 . 03 mcg / mL and 0 . 09 mcg / mL , respectively .
All metabolites are devoid of anthelmintic activity .
In man , approximately 2 % of administered mebendazole is excreted in urine and the remainder in the feces as unchanged drug or a primary metabolite .
Mode of Action Mebendazole inhibits the formation of the worms ’ microtubules and causes the worms ’ glucose depletion .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mebendazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of Enterobius vermicularis ( pinworm ) , Trichuris trichiura ( whipworm ) , Ascaris lumbricoides ( common roundworm ) , Ancylostoma duodenale ( common hookworm ) , Necator americanus ( American hookworm ) in single or mixed infections .
Efficacy varies as a function of such factors as preexisting diarrhea and gastrointestinal transit time , degree of infection , and helminth strains .
Efficacy rates derived from various studies are shown in the table below : Pinworm ( enterobiasis ) Whipworm ( trichuriasis ) Common Roundworm ( ascariasis ) Hookworm Cure rates mean 95 % 68 % 98 % 96 % Egg reduction mean — 93 % 99 % 99 % CONTRAINDICATIONS Mebendazole is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS There is no evidence that mebendazole , even at high doses , is effective for hydatid disease .
There have been rare reports of neutropenia and agranulocytosis when mebendazole was taken for prolonged periods and at dosages substantially above those recommended .
PRECAUTIONS General Periodic assessment of organ system functions , including hematopoietic and hepatic , is advisable during prolonged therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risk to the fetus in women taking mebendazole during pregnancy , especially during the first trimester ( See Pregnancy ) .
Patients should also be informed that cleanliness is important to prevent reinfection and transmission of the infection .
Drug Interactions Preliminary evidence suggests that cimetidine inhibits mebendazole metabolism and may result in an increase in plasma concentrations of mebendazole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In carcinogenicity tests of mebendazole in mice and rats , no carcinogenic effects were seen at doses as high as 40 mg / kg ( one to two times the human dose , based on mg / m2 ) given daily over two years .
Dominant lethal mutation tests in mice showed no mutagenicity at single doses as high as 640 mg / kg ( 18 times the human dose , based on mg / m2 ) .
Neither the spermatocyte test , the F1 translocation test , nor the Ames test indicated mutagenic properties .
Doses up to 40 mg / kg in mice ( equal to the human dose , based on mg / m2 ) , given to males for 60 days and to females for 14 days prior to gestation , had no effect upon fetuses and offspring , though there was slight maternal toxicity .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C Mebendazole has shown embryotoxic and teratogenic activity in pregnant rats at single oral doses as low as 10 mg / kg ( approximately equal to the human dose , based on mg / m2 ) .
In view of these findings the use of mebendazole is not recommended in pregnant women .
Although there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women , a postmarketing survey has been done of a limited number of women who inadvertently had consumed mebendazole during the first trimester of pregnancy .
The incidence of spontaneous abortion and malformation did not exceed that in the general population .
In 170 deliveries on term , no teratogenic risk of mebendazole was identified .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether mebendazole is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when mebendazole is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The drug has not been extensively studied in children under two years ; therefore , in the treatment of children under two years the relative benefit / risk should be considered .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Transient symptoms of abdominal pain and diarrhea in cases of massive infection and expulsion of worms .
Hypersensitivity Rash , urticaria and angioedema have been observed on rare occasions .
Central Nervous System Very rare cases of convulsions have been reported .
Liver There have been liver function test elevations [ AST ( SGOT ) , ALT ( SGPT ) , and GGT ] and rare reports of hepatitis when mebendazole was taken for prolonged periods and at dosages substantially above those recommended .
Hematologic Neutropenia and agranulocytosis .
( See WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of accidental overdosage , gastrointestinal complaints lasting up to a few hours may occur .
Vomiting and purging should be induced .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The same dosage schedule applies to children and adults .
The tablet may be chewed , swallowed , or crushed and mixed with food .
Pinworm ( enterobiasis ) Whipworm ( trichuriasis ) Common Roundworm ( ascariasis ) Hookworm Dose 1 tablet , once 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days If the patient is not cured three weeks after treatment , a second course of treatment is advised .
No special procedures , such as fasting or purging , are required .
HOW SUPPLIED Mebendazole 100 mg , chewable , round , light peach - colored , unscored tablets , debossed “ 93 ” and “ 107 ” on one side and plain on the other side , supplied in Bottles of 2 tablets , blister packaged NDC 54868 - 3732 - 3 Bottles of 6 tablets , blister packaged NDC 54868 - 3732 - 2 Boxes of 12 tablets , blister packaged NDC 54868 - 3732 - 0 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
MEBENDAZOLE TABLETS , USP CHEWABLE TABLET 100 mg Your doctor has prescribed this medicine to treat an infection caused by an intestinal worm .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions carefully .
In addition to your doctor ’ s treatment , you can help prevent reinfection and infection of other people by understanding a few simple facts about worms .
PINWORM : Pinworms look like tiny white threads and live in the bowel .
Usually at night , they travel to the rectal opening and lay eggs on the outside skin .
This sometimes causes itching which may be very annoying .
That is why restless sleep is a frequent sign of pinworms , especially in children .
Scratching will cause pinworm eggs to stick to the fingers .
Reinfection will result if the fingers are placed in the mouth .
The eggs , which are too small to see , contaminate whatever they come in contact with : bedclothes , underwear , hands , and food touched by contaminated hands .
Even eggs floating in the air can be swallowed and cause infection .
Pinworms are highly contagious .
Even the cleanest and most careful people can get them .
To help prevent reinfection follow these rules : • Wash hands and fingernails with soap often during the day , especially before eating and after using the toilet .
• Wear tight underpants both day and night .
Change them daily .
• For several days after treatment , clean the bedroom floor by vacuuming or damp mopping .
Avoid dry sweeping that may stir up dust .
• After treatment , wash bed linens and night clothes ( don ’ t shake them ) .
• Keep the toilet seats clean HOOKWORM , WHIPWORM AND ROUNDWORM : These worms also live in the bowel .
Eggs from the worms are deposited in the soil if an infected person fails to use a toilet or bathroom .
Since the eggs can live only in warm soil , they are found most often where the soil never freezes in winter .
People living or traveling in areas with warm winters may have these infections .
The eggs in the soil are usually carried to the mouth on food or by contact with dirty hands .
In the case of hookworms a pre - adult form of the worm actually penetrates the skin ( usually the foot ) and burrows its way into the bloodstream .
Once inside the body , they grow and breed inside the bowel .
New eggs are released in the feces .
Therefore , poor sewage disposal or the use of human waste for fertilizer can contaminate the ground with new eggs , which can then reinfect people .
The medication used to treat these worms causes them to be expelled from the body .
Hookworms and whipworms may be seen and resemble small white threads .
Roundworms are much larger and easily seen .
To help prevent reinfection follow these rules : • Wash hands and fingernails with soap often during the day , especially before eating and after using the toilet .
• Wash all fruits and vegetables thoroughly or cook them well .
• Wear shoes .
• Use the bathroom .
Follow your doctor ’ s advice , take the medication he gives you and follow the rules mentioned here .
If you have other questions about worms , be sure to ask your doctor .
WARNING : Do not take this medication if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant .
Consult your physician .
Manufactured By : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . D 9 / 2007 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 mg Blister Label Text MEBENDAZOLE TABLET USP , 100 mg Each tablet contains : Mebendazole , USP 100 mg USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert for dosage information .
Store at controlled room temperature , between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) ( see USP ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
