1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) is a combination of meropenem , a penem antibacterial , and vaborbactam , a beta - lactamase inhibitor , indicated for the treatment of patients 18 years and older with complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) including pyelonephritis caused by designated susceptible bacteria .
( 1 . 1 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of VABOMERE and other antibacterial drugs , VABOMERE should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 .
Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ( cUTI ) , including Pyelonephritis VABOMERE ® is indicated for the treatment of patients 18 years of age and older with complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) including pyelonephritis caused by the following susceptible microorganisms : Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , and Enterobacter cloacae species complex .
1 . 2 .
Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of VABOMERE and other antibacterial drugs , VABOMERE should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer VABOMERE 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) every 8 hours by intravenous infusion over 3 hours for up to 14 days , in patients 18 years of age and older with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) ≥ 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment who have an eGFR less than 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
( 2 . 2 ) eGFR [ 1 ] ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) Recommended Dosage Regimen for VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] Dosing Interval 30 to 49 VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem 1 gram and vaborbactam 1 gram ) Every 8 hours 15 to 29 VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem 1 gram and vaborbactam 1 gram ) Every 12 hours Less than 15 VABOMERE 1 gram ( meropenem 0 . 5 grams and vaborbactam 0 . 5 grams ) Every 12 hours [ 1 ] As calculated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease ( MDRD ) formula ; [ 2 ] All doses of VABOMERE are administered intravenously over 3 hours ; [ 3 ] Doses adjusted for renal impairment should be administered after a hemodialysis session ; [ 4 ] The total duration of treatment is for up to 14 days .
• See Full Prescribing Information for instructions for constituting supplied dry powder and subsequent required dilution .
( 2 . 3 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for drug compatibilities .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of VABOMERE is 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) administered every 8 hours by intravenous ( IV ) infusion over 3 hours in patients 18 years of age and older with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) greater than or equal to 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
The duration of treatment is for up to 14 days .
2 . 2 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment who have an eGFR less than 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
The recommended dosage of VABOMERE in patients with varying degrees of renal function is presented in Table 1 .
For patients with changing renal function , monitor serum creatinine concentrations and eGFR at least daily and adjust the dosage of VABOMERE accordingly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Meropenem and vaborbactam are removed by hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients maintained on hemodialysis , administer VABOMERE after a hemodialysis session .
Table 1 : Dosage of VABOMERE in Patients with Renal ImpairmenteGFR [ 1 ] ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) Recommended Dosage Regimen for VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] Dosing Interval 30 to 49 VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem 1 gram and vaborbactam 1 gram ) Every 8 hours 15 to 29 VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem 1 gram and vaborbactam 1 gram ) Every 12 hours Less than 15 VABOMERE 1 gram ( meropenem 0 . 5 grams and vaborbactam 0 . 5 grams ) Every 12 hours [ 1 ] As calculated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease ( MDRD ) formula as follows : eGFR ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) = 175 × ( serum creatinine ) - 1 . 154 × ( age ) - 0 . 203 × ( 0 . 742 if female ) × ( 1 . 212 if African American ) [ 2 ] All doses of VABOMERE are administered intravenously over 3 hours .
[ 3 ] Doses adjusted for renal impairment should be administered after a hemodialysis session .
[ 4 ] The total duration of treatment is for up to 14 days .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration of VABOMERE for Intravenous Infusion Preparation VABOMERE is supplied as a dry powder in a single - dose vial that must be constituted and further diluted prior to intravenous infusion as outlined below .
VABOMERE does not contain preservatives .
Aseptic technique must be used for constitution and dilution .
1 .
To prepare the required dose for intravenous infusion , constitute the appropriate number of vials , as determined from Table 2 below .
Withdraw 20 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , from an infusion bag and constitute each vial of VABOMERE .
2 .
Mix gently to dissolve .
The constituted VABOMERE solution will have an approximate meropenem concentration of 0 . 05 gram / mL and an approximate vaborbactam concentration of 0 . 05 gram / mL .
The final volume is approximately 21 . 3 mL .
The constituted solution is not for direct injection .
3 .
The constituted solution must be diluted further , immediately , in a 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP infusion bag before intravenous infusion .
The intravenous infusion of the diluted solution must be completed within 4 hours if stored at room temperature or 22 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
4 .
To dilute the constituted solution , withdraw the full or partial constituted vial contents from each vial and add it back into the infusion bag in accordance with Table 2 below .
Table 2 : Preparation of VABOMERE DosesVABOMERE Dose ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) Number of Vials to Constitute for Further Dilution Volume to Withdraw from Each Constituted Vial for Further Dilution Volume of Infusion Bag Final Infusion Concentration of VABOMERE 4 grams ( 2 grams - 2 grams ) 2 vials Entire contents ( approximately 21 mL ) 250 mL 16 mg / mL 500 mL 8 mg / mL 1 , 000 mL 4 mg / mL 2 grams ( 1 gram - 1 gram ) 1 vial Entire contents ( approximately 21 mL ) 125 mL 16 mg / mL 250 mL 8 mg / mL 500 mL 4 mg / mL 1 gram ( 0 . 5 gram - 0 . 5 gram ) 1 vial 10 . 5 mL ( discard unused portion ) 70 mL 14 . 3 mg / mL 125 mL 8 mg / mL 250 mL 4 mg / mL 5 .
Visually inspect the diluted VABOMERE solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration ( the color of the VABOMERE infusion solution for administration ranges from colorless to light yellow ) .
Discard unused portion after use .
2 . 4 Drug Compatibility VABOMERE solution for administration by 3 - hour infusion is only compatible with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Compatibility of VABOMERE solution for administration with other drugs has not been established .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) for injection , is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution in single - dose , clear glass vials containing meropenem 1 gram ( equivalent to 1 . 14 grams meropenem trihydrate ) and vaborbactam 1 gram .
VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) for injection , is supplied as a sterile powder for constitution in single - dose vials containing meropenem 1 gram ( equivalent to 1 . 14 grams of meropenem trihydrate ) and vaborbactam1 gram .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VABOMERE is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any components of VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) , or to other drugs in the same class or in patients who have demonstrated anaphylactic reactions to beta - lactam antibacterial drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to the components of VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) or anaphylactic reactions to beta - lactams .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions were reported with the use of VABOMERE .
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta - lactam antibacterial drugs .
Discontinue infusion if signs of acute hypersensitivity occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Seizures and other adverse Central Nervous System experiences have been reported during treatment with meropenem , a component of VABOMERE .
( 5 . 2 ) • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea has been reported with nearly all systemic antibacterial agents , including VABOMERE .
Evaluate patients if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) • Co - administration of meropenem with valproic acid or divalproex sodium reduces the serum concentration of valproic acid potentially increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in patients treated with VABOMERE in the clinical trials [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions and serious skin reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with beta - lactam antibacterial drugs .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with another beta - lactam antibacterial drug .
Before initiating therapy with VABOMERE , it is important to inquire about previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , other beta - lactam antibacterial drugs , and other allergens .
If an allergic reaction to VABOMERE occurs , discontinue the drug immediately .
5 . 2 Seizure Potential Seizures and other adverse Central Nervous System ( CNS ) experiences have been reported during treatment with meropenem , which is a component of VABOMERE .
These experiences have occurred most commonly in patients with CNS disorders ( e . g . , brain lesions or history of seizures ) or with bacterial meningitis and / or compromised renal function [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Close adherence to the recommended dosage regimens is urged , especially in patients with known factors that predispose to convulsive activity .
Continue anti - convulsant therapy in patients with known seizure disorders .
If focal tremors , myoclonus , or seizures occur , evaluate neurologically , place on anti - convulsant therapy if not already instituted , and reexamine the dosage of VABOMERE to determine whether it should be decreased or discontinued .
5 . 3 Clostridioides difficile - associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including VABOMERE , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial drug treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Risk of Breakthrough Seizures Due to Drug Interaction with Valproic Acid The concomitant use of VABOMERE and valproic acid or divalproex sodium is generally not recommended .
Case reports in the literature have shown that co - administration of carbapenems , including meropenem , to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations .
The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction , therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures .
Increasing the dose of valproic acid or divalproex sodium may not be sufficient to overcome this interaction .
Consider administration of antibacterial drugs other than carbapenems to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium .
If administration of VABOMERE is necessary , consider supplemental anticonvulsant therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Thrombocytopenia In patients with renal impairment , thrombocytopenia has been observed in patients treated with meropenem , but no clinical bleeding has been reported [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Potential for Neuromotor Impairment Alert patients receiving VABOMERE on an outpatient basis regarding adverse reactions such as seizures , delirium , headaches and / or paresthesias that could interfere with mental alertness and / or cause motor impairment .
Until it is reasonably well established that VABOMERE is well tolerated , advise patients not to operate machinery or motorized vehicles [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing VABOMERE in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of drug - resistant bacteria [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Overgrowth of Nonsusceptible Organisms As with other antibacterial drugs , prolonged use of VABOMERE may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection does occur during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Seizure Potential [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Clostridioides difficile - associated Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Risk of Breakthrough Seizures Due to Drug Interaction with Valproic Acid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Potential for Neuromotor Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Overgrowth of Nonsusceptible Organisms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 3 % of patients treated with VABOMERE were headache , phlebitis / infusion site reactions , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Melinta Therapeutics at 1 - 844 - 633 - 6568 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
VABOMERE was evaluated in a Phase 3 comparator - controlled clinical trial in cUTI , including pyelonephritis , which included 272 patients treated with VABOMERE and 273 patients treated with the comparator piperacillin / tazobactam 4 . 5 grams ( piperacillin 4 g / tazobactam 0 . 5 g ) every 8 hours .
After a minimum of 15 doses of IV therapy , patients could be switched to oral levofloxacin ( 500 mg daily every 24 hours ) to complete the treatment course .
Mean duration of IV therapy was 8 days in both treatment groups .
Mean duration of IV and oral therapy was 10 days ; patients with baseline bacteremia could receive up to 14 days of treatment .
The mean age of patients treated with VABOMERE was 53 years ( range 18 to 92 years ) , and 32 % of patients were 65 years of age or older .
Patients were predominantly female ( 66 . 5 % ) and White ( 93 . 4 % ) .
Most patients were enrolled in Europe ( 89 . 7 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions and Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in 2 . 9 % ( 8 / 272 ) of patients receiving VABOMERE and in 5 . 1 % ( 14 / 273 ) of patients receiving piperacillin / tazobactam .
Most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation of VABOMERE included hypersensitivity , 1 . 1 % ( 3 / 272 ) and infusion - related reactions , 0 . 7 % ( 2 / 272 ) .
Death occurred in 2 ( 0 . 7 % ) patients who received VABOMERE and in 2 ( 0 . 7 % ) patients who received piperacillin / tazobactam .
Common Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( 3 % or greater ) in patients receiving VABOMERE in the Phase 3 cUTI trial were headache , phlebitis / infusion site reactions , and diarrhea .
Table 3 provides adverse reactions occurring in 1 % or greater of patients receiving VABOMERE in the Phase 3 cUTI trial .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in 1 % or Greater of Patients Receiving VABOMERE in the Phase 3 Clinical Trial in cUTIAdverse Reactions VABOMERE ( N = 272 ) % Piperacillin / Tazobactam [ 1 ] ( N = 273 ) % Headache 8 . 8 4 . 4 Phlebitis / Infusion site reactions [ 2 ] 4 . 4 0 . 7 Diarrhea 3 . 3 4 . 4 Hypersensitivity [ 3 ] 1 . 8 1 . 8 Nausea 1 . 8 1 . 5 Alanine aminotransferase increased 1 . 8 0 . 4 Aspartate aminotransferase increased 1 . 5 0 . 7 Pyrexia 1 . 5 0 . 7 Hypokalemia 1 . 1 1 . 5 [ 1 ] Piperacillin / tazobactam 4 . 5 grams ( piperacillin 4 g / tazobactam 0 . 5 g ) IV infused over 30 minutes every 8 hours .
[ 2 ] Infusion site reactions include infusion / injection site phlebitis , infusion site thrombosis , and infusion site erythema .
[ 3 ] Hypersensitivity includes hypersensitivity , drug hypersensitivity , anaphylactic reaction , rash urticaria , and bronchospasm .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in Less Than 1 % of Patients Receiving VABOMERE in the Phase 3 cUTI trial : Blood and lymphatic system disorders : leukopenia General disorders and administration site conditions : chest discomfort Infections and infestations : pharyngitis , vulvovaginal candidiasis , oral candidiasis Investigations : creatinine phosphokinase increase Metabolism and nutrition disorders : decreased appetite , hyperkalemia , hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia Nervous system disorders : dizziness , tremor , paresthesia , lethargy Psychiatric disorders : hallucination , insomnia Renal and urinary disorders : azotemia , renal impairment Vascular disorders : deep vein thrombosis , hypotension , vascular pain Other Adverse Reactions Associated with Meropenem Additionally , adverse reactions reported with meropenem alone that were not reported in VABOMERE - treated patients in the Phase 3 clinical trial are listed below : Blood and lymphatic system disorders : thrombocytosis , neutropenia , eosinophilia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain Hepatobiliary disorders : jaundice Nervous system disorders : convulsions Investigations : blood alkaline phosphatase increased , blood lactate dehydrogenase increased , blood bilirubin increased , blood creatinine increased , blood urea increased , blood thromboplastin decreased , prothrombin time decreased , Direct and Indirect Coombs test positive Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens Johnson syndrome , Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) syndrome , erythema multiforme Immune system disorders : angioedema General disorders and administration site conditions : pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Valproic Acid Case reports in the literature have shown that co - administration of carbapenems , including meropenem , to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations .
The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction , therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures .
Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown , data from in vitro and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid ' s glucuronide metabolite ( VPA - g ) back to valproic acid , thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid .
If administration of VABOMERE is necessary , then supplemental anti - convulsant therapy should be considered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Probenecid Probenecid competes with meropenem for active tubular secretion , resulting in increased plasma concentrations of meropenem .
Co - administration of probenecid with VABOMERE is not recommended .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Fetal malformations were observed in vaborbactam - treated rabbits , therefore advise pregnant women of the potential risks to the fetus .
There are insufficient human data to establish whether there is a drug - associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriages with VABOMERE , meropenem , or vaborbactam in pregnant women .
Malformations ( supernumerary lung lobes , interventricular septal defect ) were observed in offspring from pregnant rabbits administered intravenous vaborbactam during the period of organogenesis at doses approximately equivalent to or above the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on plasma AUC comparison .
The clinical relevance of the malformations is uncertain .
No similar malformations or fetal toxicity were observed in offspring from pregnant rats administered intravenous vaborbactam during organogenesis or from late pregnancy and through lactation at a dose equivalent to approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison [ see Data ] .
No fetal toxicity or malformations were observed in pregnant rats and cynomolgus monkeys administered intravenous meropenem during organogenesis at doses up to 1 . 6 and 1 . 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison , respectively .
In rats administered intravenous meropenem in late pregnancy and during the lactation period , there were no adverse effects on offspring at doses equivalent to approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Meropenem Reproductive studies have been performed with meropenem in rats at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day and in cynomolgus monkeys at doses of up to 360 mg / kg / day ( on the basis of body surface area comparisons , approximately 1 . 6 times and 1 . 2 times higher , respectively , than the MRHD of 2 grams every 8 hours ) .
These studies revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to meropenem , although there were slight changes in fetal body weight at doses of 250 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to approximately 0 . 4 times the MRHD of 2 grams every 8 hours based on body surface area comparison ) and above in rats .
In a published study1 , meropenem administered to pregnant rats from Gestation Day 6 to Gestation Day 17 , was associated with mild maternal weight loss at all doses , but did not produce malformations or fetal toxicity .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for fetal toxicity in this study was considered to be the high dose of 750 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to approximately 1 . 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) .
In a peri - postnatal study in rats described in the published literature1 , intravenous meropenem was administered to dams from Gestation Day 17 until Postpartum Day 21 .
There were no adverse effects in the dams and no adverse effects in the first generation offspring ( including developmental , behavioral , and functional assessments and reproductive parameters ) except that female offspring exhibited lowered body weights which continued during gestation and nursing of the second generation offspring .
Second generation offspring showed no meropenem - related effects .
The NOAEL value was considered to be 1000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Vaborbactam In a rat embryo - fetal toxicology study , intravenous administration of vaborbactam during Gestation Days 6 - 17 showed no evidence of maternal or embryofetal toxicity at doses up to 1000 mg / kg , which is equivalent to approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparisons .
In the rabbit , intravenous administration of vaborbactam during Gestation Days 7 – 19 at doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the MRHD based on AUC exposure comparison ) was not associated with maternal toxicity or fetal weight loss .
A low incidence of malformations occurred in the 300 mg / kg / day mid - dose group ( two fetuses from different litters with interventricular septal defects , one fetus with a fused right lung lobe and one fetus with a supernumerary lung lobe ) , and in the 1000 mg / kg / day high - dose group ( two fetuses from different litters with supernumerary lobes ) .
The NOAEL was considered to be 100 mg / kg / day which is equivalent to 0 . 3 times the MRHD based on plasma AUC exposure comparison and 6 - times the MRHD based on maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) comparison .
The clinical relevance of the malformations is uncertain .
Vaborbactam Cmax values may have influenced malformations in the rabbit study , and the recommended 3 - hour infusion time for clinical administration of vaborbactam is associated with lower plasma Cmax values than the 30 - minute infusions in rabbits .
In a peri - postnatal study in rats , vaborbactam administered intravenously to pregnant dams from Gestation Day 6 to Lactation Day 20 caused no adverse effects on the dams , or in first and second generation offspring .
The NOAEL was considered to be 1000 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Meropenem has been reported to be excreted in human milk .
It is unknown whether vaborbactam is excreted in human milk .
No information is available on the effects of meropenem and vaborbactam on the breast - fed child or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for VABOMERE and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from VABOMERE or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VABOMERE in pediatric patients ( younger than 18 years of age ) has not been established .
Studies of VABOMERE have not been conducted in patients younger than 18 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 272 patients treated with VABOMERE in the Phase 3 cUTI trial , 48 ( 18 % ) patients were 65 years of age and older , while 39 ( 14 % ) patients were 75 years of age and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Meropenem , a component of VABOMERE , is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with renal impairment .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Population pharmacokinetic ( PK ) analysis found no clinically relevant change in pharmacokinetic parameters in elderly patients .
No dosage adjustment based on age is required .
Dosage adjustment for elderly patients should be based on renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Pharmacokinetic studies conducted with meropenem and vaborbactam in subjects with renal impairment have shown that the plasma exposures of both meropenem and vaborbactam increased with decreasing renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dosage adjustment for VABOMERE is recommended in patients with renal impairment ( eGFR less than 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
For patients with changing renal function , monitor serum creatinine concentrations and eGFR at least daily and adjust the dosage of VABOMERE accordingly .
Meropenem and vaborbactam are removed by hemodialysis .
Following a single dose of VABOMERE , vaborbactam exposure was substantially greater when VABOMERE was administered after hemodialysis than before hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , discontinue VABOMERE and institute general supportive treatment .
Meropenem and vaborbactam can be removed by hemodialysis .
In subjects with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) administered meropenem 1 gram and vaborbactam 1 gram , the mean total recovery in dialysate following a hemodialysis session was 38 % and 53 % of the administered dose of meropenem and vaborbactam , respectively .
No clinical information is available on the use of hemodialysis to treat VABOMERE overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) for injection is a combination product that contains meropenem , a synthetic penem antibacterial drug and vaborbactam , a cyclic boronic acid beta - lactamase inhibitor , for intravenous administration .
Meropenem , present as a trihydrate , is a white to light yellow crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 437 . 52 .
The chemical name for meropenem trihydrate is ( 4 R , 5 S , 6 S ) - 3 - [ [ ( 3 S , 5 S ) - 5 - ( dimethylcarbamoyl ) - 3 - pyrrolidinyl ] thio ] - 6 - [ ( 1 R ) - 1 - hydroxyethyl ] - 4 - methyl - 7 - oxo - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] hept - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid , trihydrate .
The empirical formula of meropenem trihydrate is C17H25N3O5S ∙ 3H2O and its chemical structure is : Figure 1 : Structure of Meropenem Trihydrate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vaborbactam is a white to off - white powder , with a molecular weight of 297 . 14 .
The chemical name for vaborbactam is ( 3 R , 6 S ) - 2 - hydroxy - 3 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 - thienyl ) acetyl ] amino ] - 1 , 2 - oxaborinane - 6 - acetic acid .
Its empirical formula is C12H16BNO5S and its chemical structure is : Figure 2 : Structure of Vaborbactam [ MULTIMEDIA ] VABOMERE is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution that contains meropenem trihydrate , vaborbactam , and sodium carbonate .
Each 50 mL glass vial contains 1 gram of meropenem ( equivalent to 1 . 14 grams of meropenem trihydrate ) , 1 gram of vaborbactam , and 0 . 575 gram of sodium carbonate .
The total sodium content of the mixture is approximately 0 . 25 grams ( 10 . 9 mEq ) / vial .
Each vial is constituted and further diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Both the constituted solution and the diluted solution for intravenous infusion should be a colorless to light yellow solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action VABOMERE is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Similar to other beta - lactam antibacterial drugs , the percentage of time of a dosing interval that unbound plasma concentration of meropenem exceeds the meropenem - vaborbactam minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) against the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in animal and in vitro models of infection .
The ratio of the 24 - hour unbound plasma vaborbactam AUC to meropenem - vaborbactam MIC is the index that best predicts efficacy of vaborbactam in combination with meropenem in animal and in vitro models of infection .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose of 1 and 3 times the maximum approved recommended dose , Vabomere ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic ( PK ) Parameters The mean PK parameters of meropenem and vaborbactam in healthy adults with normal renal function after single and multiple 3 - hour infusions of VABOMERE 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) administered every 8 hours are summarized in Table 4 .
The PK parameters of meropenem and vaborbactam were similar for single and multiple dose administration of VABOMERE .
Table 4 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean [ SD ] ) of Meropenem and Vaborbactam Following Administration of VABOMERE 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) by 3 - hour Infusion in Healthy Adult SubjectsParameter Meropenem Vaborbactam Single VABOMERE 4 gram [ 1 ] Dose ( N = 8 ) Multiple VABOMERE 4 gram null Doses Administered Every 8 hours for 7 Days ( N = 8 ) Single VABOMERE 4 gram null Dose ( N = 8 ) Multiple VABOMERE 4 gram null Doses Administered Every 8 hours for 7 Days ( N = 8 ) Cmax = maximum observed concentration ; CL = plasma clearance ; AUC = area under the concentration time curve ; T ½ = half - life .
Cmax ( mg / L ) 46 . 0 ( 5 . 7 ) 43 . 4 ( 8 . 8 ) 50 . 7 ( 8 . 4 ) 55 . 6 ( 11 . 0 ) CL ( L / h ) 14 . 6 ( 2 . 7 ) 15 . 1 ( 2 . 8 ) 12 . 3 ( 2 . 2 ) 10 . 9 ( 1 . 8 ) AUC ( mg ∙ h / L ) [ 2 ] 142 . 0 ( 28 . 0 ) 138 . 0 ( 27 . 7 ) 168 . 0 ( 32 . 2 ) 196 . 0 ( 36 . 7 ) T1 / 2 ( h ) 1 . 50 ( 1 . 0 ) 1 . 22 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 . 99 ( 0 . 8 ) 1 . 68 ( 0 . 4 ) [ 1 ] Meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams administered as a 3 - hour infusion [ 2 ] AUC0 - inf reported for single - dose administration ; AUC0 - 8 reported for multiple - dose administration ; AUC0 – 24 is 414 mg ∙ h / L for meropenem and 588 mg ∙ h / L for vaborbactam .
The maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the plasma drug concentration time curve ( AUC ) of meropenem and vaborbactam proportionally increased with dose across the dose range studied ( 1 gram to 2 grams for meropenem and 0 . 25 grams to 2 grams for vaborbactam ) when administered as a single 3 - hour intravenous infusion .
There is no accumulation of meropenem or vaborbactam following multiple intravenous infusions administered every 8 hours for 7 days in subjects with normal renal function .
The mean population PK parameters of meropenem and vaborbactam in 295 patients ( including 35 patients with reduced renal function ) after 3 - hour infusions of VABOMERE 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) administered every 8 hours ( or dose adjusted based on renal function ) are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Population Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean [ SD ] ) of Meropenem and Vaborbactam Following Administration of VABOMERE 4 grams ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) by 3 - hour Infusion in Patients [ 1 ] Parameter Meropenem Vaborbactam Cmax ( mg / L ) 57 . 3 ( 23 . 0 ) 71 . 3 ( 28 . 6 ) AUC0 - 24 , Day 1 ( mg ∙ h / L ) 637 ( 295 ) 821 ( 369 ) AUC0 - 24 , steady - state ( mg ∙ h / L ) 650 ( 364 ) 835 ( 508 ) CL ( L / h ) 10 . 5 ( 6 . 4 ) 7 . 95 ( 4 . 3 ) T1 / 2 ( h ) 2 . 30 ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 25 ( 2 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams administered as a 3 - hour infusion .
Distribution The plasma protein binding of meropenem is approximately 2 % .
The plasma protein binding of vaborbactam is approximately 33 % .
The steady - state volumes of distribution of meropenem and vaborbactam in patients were 20 . 2 L and 18 . 6 L , respectively .
Elimination The clearance of meropenem in healthy subjects following multiple doses is 15 . 1 L / h and for vaborbactam is 10 . 9 L / h .
The t1 / 2 is 1 . 22 hours and 1 . 68 hours for meropenem and vaborbactam , respectively .
Metabolism A minor pathway of meropenem elimination is hydrolysis of the beta - lactam ring ( meropenem open lactam ) , which accounts for 22 % of a dose eliminated via the urine .
Vaborbactam does not undergo metabolism .
Excretion Both meropenem and vaborbactam are primarily excreted via the kidneys .
Approximately 40 – 60 % of a meropenem dose is excreted unchanged within 24 - 48 hours with a further 22 % recovered as the microbiologically inactive hydrolysis product .
The mean renal clearance for meropenem was 7 . 8 L / h .
The mean non - renal clearance for meropenem was 7 . 3 L / h which comprises both fecal elimination ( ~ 2 % of dose ) and degradation due to hydrolysis .
For vaborbactam , 75 to 95 % of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine over a 24 to 48 hour period .
The mean renal clearance for vaborbactam was 8 . 9 L / h .
The mean non - renal clearance for vaborbactam was 2 . 0 L / h indicating nearly complete elimination of vaborbactam by the renal route .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment Following a single dose of VABOMERE , pharmacokinetic studies with meropenem and vaborbactam in subjects with renal impairment have shown that meropenem AUC0 - inf ratios to subjects with normal renal function are 1 . 28 , 2 . 07 , and 4 . 63 for subjects with mild ( eGFR of 60 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , moderate ( eGFR of 30 to 59 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , and severe ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) renal impairment , respectively ; vaborbactam AUC0 - inf ratios to subjects with normal renal function are 1 . 18 , 2 . 31 , and 7 . 8 for subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively [ see Dosing and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Hemodialysis removed 38 % of the meropenem dose and 53 % of the vaborbactam dose .
Vaborbactam exposure was high in subjects with ESRD ( eGFR < 15 ml / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
Vaborbactam exposure was higher when VABOMERE was administered after hemodialysis ( AUC0 - inf ratio to subjects with normal renal function of 37 . 5 ) than when VABOMERE was administered before hemodialysis ( AUC0 - inf ratio to subjects with normal renal function of 10 . 2 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Dosing and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment A pharmacokinetic study conducted with an intravenous formulation of meropenem in patients with hepatic impairment has shown no effects of liver disease on the pharmacokinetics of meropenem .
Vaborbactam does not undergo hepatic metabolism .
Therefore , the systemic clearance of meropenem and vaborbactam is not expected to be affected by hepatic impairment .
Geriatric Patients In elderly patients with renal impairment , plasma clearances of meropenem and vaborbactam were reduced , correlating with age - associated reduction in renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Male and Female Patients Meropenem and vaborbactam Cmax and AUC were similar between males and females using a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Racial or Ethnic Groups No significant difference in mean meropenem or vaborbactam clearance was observed across race groups using a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Drug Interactions No drug - drug interaction was observed between meropenem and vaborbactam in clinical studies with healthy subjects .
Based upon the in vitro and in vivo data available to date , there is a low potential for clinically significant drug interactions with vaborbactam .
Vaborbactam at clinically relevant concentrations does not inhibit the cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 in vitro human liver microsomes .
Vaborbactam showed no potential for in vitro induction of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes .
Studies evaluating the potential for meropenem to interact with CYP450 enzymes or active transport systems have not been conducted .
However , carbapenems as a class have not shown the potential for inhibition or induction CYP450 enzymes and clinical experience suggests that such effects are unlikely .
Vaborbactam does not inhibit the following hepatic and renal transporters in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations : P - gp , BCRP , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 or BSEP .
Vaborbactam was not a substrate of OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , P - gp , and BCRP .
Meropenem is a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3 and as such , probenecid competes with meropenem for active tubular secretion and thus inhibits the renal excretion of meropenem .
Following administration of probenecid with meropenem , the mean systemic exposure increased 56 % and the mean elimination half - life increased 38 % [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Concomitant administration of meropenem and valproic acid has been associated with reductions in valproic acid concentrations with subsequent loss in seizure control [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action The meropenem component of VABOMERE is a penem antibacterial drug .
The bactericidal action of meropenem results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Meropenem penetrates the cell wall of most gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria to bind penicillin - binding protein ( PBP ) targets .
Meropenem is stable to hydrolysis by most beta - lactamases , including penicillinases and cephalosporinases produced by gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria , with the exception of carbapenem hydrolyzing beta - lactamases .
The vaborbactam component of VABOMERE is a non - suicidal beta - lactamase inhibitor that protects meropenem from degradation by certain serine beta - lactamases such as Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase ( KPC ) .
Vaborbactam does not have any antibacterial activity .
Vaborbactam does not decrease the activity of meropenem against meropenem - susceptible organisms .
Resistance Mechanisms of beta - lactam resistance may include the production of beta - lactamases , modification of PBPs by gene acquisition or target alteration , up - regulation of efflux pumps , and loss of outer membrane porin .
VABOMERE may not have activity against gram - negative bacteria that have porin mutations combined with overexpression of efflux pumps .
Clinical isolates may produce multiple beta - lactamases , express varying levels of beta - lactamases , or have amino acid sequence variations , and other resistance mechanisms that have not been identified .
Culture and susceptibility information and local epidemiology should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
VABOMERE demonstrated in vitro activity against Enterobacteriaceae in the presence of some beta - lactamases and extended - spectrum beta - lactamases ( ESBLs ) of the following groups : KPC , SME , TEM , SHV , CTX - M , CMY , and ACT .
VABOMERE is not active against bacteria that produce metallo - beta lactamases or oxacillinases with carbapenemase activity .
In the Phase 3 cUTI trial with VABOMERE , some isolates of E . coli , K . pneumoniae , E . cloacae , C . freundii , P . mirabilis , P . stuartii that produced beta - lactamases , were susceptible to VABOMERE ( minimum inhibitory concentration ≤ 4 mcg / mL ) .
These isolates produced one or more beta - lactamases of the following enzyme groups : OXA ( non - carbapenemases ) , KPC , CTX - M , TEM , SHV , CMY , and ACT .
Some beta - lactamases were also produced by an isolate of K . pneumoniae that was not susceptible to VABOMERE ( minimum inhibitory concentration ≥ 32 mcg / mL ) .
This isolate produced beta - lactamases of the following enzyme groups : CTX - M , TEM , SHV , and OXA .
No cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobials has been identified .
Some isolates resistant to carbapenems ( including meropenem ) and to cephalosporins may be susceptible to VABOMERE .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In vitro synergy studies have not demonstrated antagonism between VABOMERE and levofloxacin , tigecycline , polymyxin , amikacin , vancomycin , azithromycin , daptomycin , or linezolid .
Activity against Meropenem Non - susceptible Bacteria in Animal Infection Models Vaborbactam restored activity of meropenem in animal models of infection ( e . g . , mouse thigh infection , urinary tract infection and pulmonary infection ) caused by some meropenem non - susceptible KPC - producing Enterobacteriaceae .
Antimicrobial Activity VABOMERE has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) ] .
Gram - negative bacteria : • Enterobacter cloacae species complex • Escherichia coli • Klebsiella pneumoniae The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro MIC less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for VABOMERE against isolates of a similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of VABOMERE in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - negative bacteria : • Citrobacter freundii • Citrobacter koseri • Enterobacter aerogenes • Klebsiella oxytoca • Morganella morganii • Proteus mirabilis • Providencia spp .
• Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Serratia marcescens Susceptibility Test Methods For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with VABOMERE , meropenem , or vaborbactam .
Mutagenesis Meropenem Genetic toxicity studies were performed with meropenem using the bacterial reverse mutation test , the Chinese hamster ovary HGPRT assay , cultured human lymphocytes cytogenic assay , and the mouse micronucleus test .
There was no evidence of mutation potential found in any of these tests .
Vaborbactam Genetic toxicity studies were performed with vaborbactam using the bacterial reverse mutation test , chromosomal aberration test and the mouse micronucleus test .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential found in any of these tests .
Impairment of Fertility Meropenem Reproductive studies were performed with meropenem in male and female rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day with no evidence of impaired fertility ( approximately equivalent to 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) .
In a reproductive study in cynomolgus monkeys at doses of meropenem up to 360 mg / kg / day ( on the basis of body surface area comparison , approximately equivalent to 1 . 2 times the MRHD ) no reproductive toxicity was seen .
Vaborbactam Vaborbactam had no adverse effect on fertility in male and female rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ( cUTI ) , including Pyelonephritis A total of 545 adults with cUTI , including pyelonephritis were randomized into a double - blind , double dummy , multi - center trial comparing VABOMERE ( meropenem 2 grams and vaborbactam 2 grams ) to piperacillin / tazobactam ( piperacillin 4 grams / tazobactam 0 . 5 grams ) intravenously every 8 hours .
Switch to an oral antibacterial drug , such as levofloxacin was allowed after a minimum of 15 doses of IV therapy .
The microbiologically modified intent to treat population ( m - MITT ) included all randomized patients who received any study drug and had at least 1 baseline uropathogen .
Clinical and microbiological response at the end of IV treatment ( EOIVT ) required both a clinical outcome of cure or improvement and a microbiologic outcome of eradication ( all baseline uropathogens at > 105 CFU / mL are to be reduced to < 104 CFU / mL ) .
Clinical and microbiological response was also assessed at the Test of Cure ( TOC ) visit ( approximately 7 days after completion of treatment ) in the m - MITT population and required both a clinical outcome of cure and a microbiological outcome of eradication .
Patient demographic and baseline characteristics were balanced between treatment groups in the m - MITT population .
Approximately 93 % of patients were Caucasian and 66 % were females in both treatment groups .
The mean age was 54 years with 32 % and 42 % patients greater than 65 years of age in VABOMERE and piperacillin / tazobactam treatment groups , respectively .
Mean body mass index was approximately 26 . 5 kg / m2 in both treatment groups .
Concomitant bacteremia was identified in 12 ( 6 % ) and 15 ( 8 % ) patients at baseline in VABOMERE and piperacillin / tazobactam treatment groups respectively .
The proportion of patients with diabetes mellitus at baseline was 17 % and 19 % in VABOMERE and piperacillin / tazobactam treatment groups , respectively .
The majority of patients ( approximately 90 % ) were enrolled from Europe , and approximately 2 % of patients were enrolled from North America .
Overall , in both treatment groups , 59 % of patients had pyelonephritis and 40 % had cUTI , with 21 % and 19 % of patients having a non - removable and removable source of infection , respectively .
Mean duration of IV treatment in both treatment groups was 8 days and mean total treatment duration ( IV and oral ) was 10 days ; patients with baseline bacteremia could receive up to 14 days of therapy .
Approximately 10 % of patients in each treatment group in the m - MITT population had a levofloxacin - resistant pathogen at baseline and received levofloxacin as the oral switch therapy .
This protocol violation may have impacted the assessment of the outcomes at the TOC visit .
These patients were not excluded from the analysis presented in Table 6 , as the decision to switch to oral levofloxacin was based on post - randomization factors .
VABOMERE demonstrated efficacy with regard to clinical and microbiological response at the EOIVT visit and TOC visits in the m - MITT population as shown in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Clinical and Microbiological Response Rates in a Phase 3 Trial of cUTI Including Pyelonephritis ( m - MITT Population ) VABOMERE n / N ( % ) Piperacillin / Tazobactam n / N ( % ) Difference ( 95 % CI ) CI = confidence interval ; EOIVT = End of Intravenous Treatment ; TOC = Test of Cure Clinical cure or improvement AND microbiological eradication at the End of IV Treatment Visit [ 1 ] 183 / 186 ( 98 . 4 ) 165 / 175 ( 94 . 3 ) 4 . 1 % ( 0 . 3 % , 8 . 8 % ) Clinical cure AND microbiological eradication at the Test of Cure visit approximately 7 days after completion of treatment [ 2 ] 124 / 162 ( 76 . 5 ) 112 / 153 ( 73 . 2 ) 3 . 3 % ( - 6 . 2 % , 13 . 0 % ) [ 1 ] End of IV Treatment visit includes patients with organisms resistant to piperacillin / tazobactam at baseline [ 2 ] Test of Cure visit excludes patients with organisms resistant to piperacillin / tazobactam at baseline In the m - MITT population , the rate of clinical and microbiological response in VABOMERE - treated patients with concurrent bacteremia at baseline was 10 / 12 ( 83 . 3 % ) .
In a subset of the E . coli and K . pneumoniae isolates , genotypic testing identified certain ESBL groups ( e . g . , TEM , CTX - M , SHV and OXA ) in both treatment groups of the Phase 3 cUTI trial .
The rates of clinical and microbiological response were similar in the ESBL - positive and ESBL - negative subset at EOIVT ; at TOC , clinical and microbiological response was lower in the ESBL - positive as compared to ESBL - negative subset in both treatment groups .
15 REFERENCES • Kawamura S , Russell AW , Freeman SJ , and Siddall , RA : Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity of Meropenem in Rats .
Chemotherapy , 40 : S238 - 250 ( 1992 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VABOMERE 2 grams ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) for injection is supplied as a white to light yellow sterile powder for constitution in single - dose , clear glass vials ( NDC 70842 - 120 - 01 ) sealed with a rubber stopper ( not made with natural rubber latex ) and an aluminum overseal .
Each vial is supplied in cartons of 6 vials ( NDC 70842 - 120 - 06 ) .
Each vial contains 1 gram of meropenem ( equivalent to 1 . 14 grams of meropenem trihydrate ) , 1 gram of vaborbactam , and 0 . 575 gram of sodium carbonate .
Store VABOMERE vials at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP , Controlled Room Temperature ( CRT ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Serious Allergic Reactions Advise patients that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions , could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment .
Ask patient about any previous hypersensitivity reactions to VABOMERE ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) , penicillins , cephalosporins , other beta - lactams , or other allergens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Seizures Patients receiving VABOMERE on an outpatient basis must be alerted of adverse events such as seizures , delirium , headaches and / or paresthesias that could interfere with mental alertness and / or cause motor impairment .
Until it is reasonably well established that VABOMERE is well tolerated , patients should not operate machinery or motorized vehicles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Potentially Serious Diarrhea Counsel patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs including VABOMERE , which usually ends when the antibacterial drug is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial drugs , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial drug .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Interaction with Valproic Acid Counsel patients to inform their physician if they are taking valproic acid or divalproex sodium .
Valproic acid concentrations in the blood may drop below the therapeutic range upon co - administration with VABOMERE .
If treatment with VABOMERE is necessary and continued , alternative or supplemental anti - convulsant medication to prevent and / or treat seizures may be needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Antibacterial Resistance Counsel patients that antibacterial drugs , including VABOMERE , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When VABOMERE is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , tell patients that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , take the medication exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by VABOMERE or other antibacterial drugs in the future [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Marketed by : Melinta Therapeutics , LLC Lincolnshire , IL 60069 USA MEL040 - R004 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 g Vial Carton Rx only NDC 70842 - 120 - 06 VABOMERE ® ( meropenem and vaborbactam ) for injection 2 g per vial * * Meropenem 1 gram ( equivalent to 1 . 14 g meropenem trihydrate ) and vaborbactam 1 g For Intravenous Infusion Only Single Dose Only Discard Unused Portion After Use MUST BE CONSTITUTED THEN DILUTED See prescribing information for constitution and dilution instructions and complete directions for use .
Each vial contains meropenem 1 g , vaborbactam 1 g , and sodium carbonate 0 . 575 g .
The total sodium content of the mixture is approximately 0 . 25 g ( 10 . 9 mEq ) .
Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] MEL042 - R002 Contains 6 single dose 2 g vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
