DESCRIPTION Intralipid ® 10 % ( A 10 % Intravenous Fat Emulsion ) is a sterile , non - pyrogenic fat emulsion prepared for intravenous administration as a source of calories and essential fatty acids .
It is made up of 10 % Soybean Oil , 1 . 2 % Egg Yolk Phospholipids , 2 . 25 % Glycerin , and Water for Injection .
In addition , sodium hydroxide has been added to adjust the pH so that the final product pH is 8 .
pH range is 6 to 8 . 9 .
The soybean oil is a refined natural product consisting of a mixture of neutral triglycerides of predominantly unsaturated fatty acids with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] where [ MULTIMEDIA ] are saturated and unsaturated fatty acid residues .
The major component fatty acids are linoleic acid ( 44 - 62 % ) , oleic acid ( 19 - 30 % ) , palmitic acid ( 7 - 14 % ) , α - linolenic acid ( 4 - 11 % ) and stearic acid ( 1 . 4 - 5 . 5 % ) 1 .
These fatty acids have the following chemical and structural formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purified egg phosphatides are a mixture of naturally occurring phospholipids which are isolated from the egg yolk .
These phospholipids have the following general structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] contain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids that abound in neutral fats .
R3 is primarily either the choline or ethanolamine ester of phosphoric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Glycerin is chemically designated C3H8O3 and is a clear colorless , hygroscopic syrupy liquid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % Intravenous Fat Emulsion ) has an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsmol / kg water ( which represents 260 mOsmol / L of emulsion ) and contains emulsified fat particles of approximately 0 . 5 micron size .
The total caloric value , including fat , phospholipid and glycerin , is 1 . 1 kcal per mL of Intralipid 10 % .
The phospholipids present contribute 47 milligrams or approximately 1 . 5 mmol of phosphorus per 100 mL of the emulsion .
The primary plastic container ( BiofineTM ) is made from multilayered film specifically designed for parenteral nutrition drug products .
The film is polypropylene based comprising three co - extruded layers .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The container does not contain DEHP ( di ( 2 - ethylhexyl ) phthalate ) , PVC .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
This product is not made with natural rubber latex .
The container - emulsion unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Intralipid 10 % is metabolized and utilized as a source of energy causing an increase in heat production , decrease in respiratory quotient and increase in oxygen consumption .
The infused fat particles are cleared from the blood stream in a manner thought to be comparable to the clearing of chylomicrons .
Intralipid 10 % will prevent the biochemical lesions of essential fatty acid deficiency ( EFAD ) and correct the clinical manifestations of the EFAD syndrome .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intralipid ® 10 % is indicated as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for patients requiring parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time ( usually for more than 5 days ) and as a source of essential fatty acids for prevention of EFAD .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Intralipid 10 % is contraindicated in patients with : • Disturbances of normal fat metabolism such as pathologic hyperlipemia , lipoid nephrosis or acute pancreatitis if accompanied by hyperlipidemia .
• Known hypersensitivity to egg , soybean , peanut protein , or to any of the active ingredients or excipients of Intralipid 10 % .
WARNINGS Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous fat emulsion have been reported in the medical literature2 .
Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
Treatment of premature and low birth weight infants with intravenous fat emulsion must be based upon careful benefit - risk assessment .
Strict adherence to the recommended total daily dose is mandatory ; hourly infusion rate should be as slow as possible in each case and should not in any case exceed 1 g fat / kg in four hours .
Premature and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous fat emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following fat emulsion infusion ; therefore , serious consideration must be given to administration of less than the maximum recommended doses in these patients in order to decrease the likelihood of intravenous fat overload .
The infant ' s ability to eliminate the infused fat from the circulation must be carefully monitored ( such as serum triglycerides and / or plasma free fatty acid levels ) .
The lipemia must clear between daily infusions .
Caution should be exercised in administering of Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % Intravenous Fat Emulsion ) to patients with severe liver damage , pulmonary disease , anemia or blood coagulation disorders , or when there is danger of fat embolism .
Parenteral Nutrition - Associated Liver Disease and Other Hepatobiliary Disorders Risk of Parenteral Nutrition - Associated Liver Disease Parenteral nutrition - associated liver disease ( PNALD ) , also referred to as intestinal failure - associated liver disease ( IFALD ) , can present as cholestasis or hepatic steatosis , and may progress to steatohepatitis with fibrosis and cirrhosis ( possibly leading to chronic hepatic failure ) .
The etiology of PNALD is multifactorial ; however , intravenously administered phytosterols ( plant sterols ) contained in plant - derived lipid emulsions , including Intralipid , have been associated with development of PNALD .
In a randomized active - controlled , double - blind , parallel - group , multi - center study that included 152 neonates and 9 patients ranging in age from 29 to 153 days who were expected to require PN for at least 28 days , parenteral nutrition - associated cholestasis ( PNAC ) , a precursor to PNALD , developed more frequently in Intralipid - treated patients than in patients treated with a 4 - oil mixed lipid emulsion .
PNAC ( defined as direct bilirubin > 2 mg / dl with a second confirmed elevation > 2 mg / dl at least 7 days later ) occurred in 11 . 5 % ( 9 / 78 ) in Intralipid - treated patients and 2 . 4 % ( 2 / 83 ) of patients treated with a 4 - oil mixed lipid emulsion .
Most PNAC events occurred in patients who were treated for longer than 28 days .
The estimated cumulative incidence of PNAC is shown in the Kaplan - Meier cumulative incidence curve in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Cumulative Incidence Curve of Time to Parenteral Nutrition - Associated Cholestasis ( PNAC ) with Standard Error Bars [ MULTIMEDIA ] Monitor liver tests in patients treated with Intralipid and consider discontinuation or dosage reduction if abnormalities occur .
Other Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders including cholecystitis and cholelithiasis have developed in some PN - treated patients without preexisting liver disease .
Monitor liver tests when administering Intralipid .
Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early to determine whether these conditions are related to Intralipid use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Aluminum Toxicity This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS When Intralipid 10 % is administered , the patient ' s capacity to eliminate the infused fat from the circulation must be monitored by use of an appropriate laboratory determination of serum triglycerides .
Overdosage must be avoided .
During intravenous administration with Intralipid 10 % , perform liver tests to monitor for PNALD .
If patients develop liver test abnormalities , consider discontinuation of Intralipid or dosage reduction .
( See WARNINGS section ) Frequent platelet counts should be done in neonatal patients receiving parenteral nutrition with Intralipid 10 % .
Drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with Intralipid have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Intralipid .
It is also not known whether Intralipid can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Intralipid should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Intralipid is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed can be separated into two classes : • Those more frequently encountered are due : either to contamination of the intravenous catheter and result in sepsis , or to vein irritation by concurrently infused hypertonic solutions and may result in thrombophlebitis .
These adverse reactions are inseparable from the hyperalimentation procedure with or without Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) .
• Less frequent reactions more directly related to Intralipid 10 % are : a ) immediate or early adverse reactions , each of which has been reported to occur in clinical trials , in an incidence of less than 1 % ; dyspnea , cyanosis , allergic reactions , hyperlipemia , hypercoagulability , nausea , vomiting , headache , flushing , increase in temperature , sweating , sleepiness , pain in the chest and back , slight pressure over the eyes , dizziness , and irritation at the site of infusion , and , rarely , thrombocytopenia in neonates ; b ) delayed adverse reactions such as hepatomegaly , jaundice due to central lobular cholestasis , splenomegaly , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , transient increases in liver tests , and overloading syndrome ( focal seizures , fever , leukocytosis , hepatomegaly , splenomegaly and shock ) .
The deposition of a brown pigmentation in the reticuloendothelial system , the so - called “ intravenous fat pigment , ” has been reported in patients infused with Intralipid 10 % .
The causes and significance of this phenomenon are unknown .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of fat overload during therapy , stop the infusion of Intralipid 10 % until visual inspection of the plasma , determination of triglyceride concentrations , or measurement of plasma light - scattering activity by nephelometry indicates the lipid has cleared .
Re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Intralipid 10 % should be administered as a part of Intravenous nutrition via peripheral vein or by central venous infusion .
Adult Patients The initial rate of infusion in adults should be 1 mL / minute for the first 15 to 30 minutes of infusion .
If no untoward reactions occur ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) , the infusion rate can be increased to 2 mL / minute .
Not more than 500 mL of Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) should be infused into adults on the first day of therapy .
If the patient has no untoward reactions , the dose can be increased on the following day .
The daily dosage should not exceed 2 . 5 g of fat / kg of body weight ( 25 mL of Intralipid 10 % per kg ) .
Intralipid 10 % should make up no more than 60 % of the total caloric input to the patient .
Maximum infusion rate should not exceed 0 . 1 g / kg / hr .
Carbohydrate and a source of amino acids should comprise the remaining caloric input .
Pediatric Patients The dosage for premature infants starts at 0 . 5 g fat / kg body weight / 24 hours ( 5 mL Intralipid 10 % ) and may be increased in relation to the infant ' s ability to eliminate fat .
The maximum recommended dosage is 3 g fat / kg / 24 hours .
Pediatric patients may be at risk for parenteral nutrition - associated liver disease ( PNALD ) , also known as intestinal failure - associated liver disease ( see WARNINGS section ) when receiving Intralipid for durations exceeding two weeks .
During intravenous administration of Intralipid 10 % , perform liver tests to monitor for PNALD .
The initial rate of infusion in older pediatric patients should be no more than 0 . 1 mL / minute for the first 10 to 15 minutes .
If no untoward reactions occur , the rate can be changed to permit infusion of 1 mL of Intralipid 10 % / kg / hour ( equivalent to 0 . 1 g / kg / hour ) .
The daily dosage should not exceed 3 g of fat / kg of body weight3 .
Intralipid 10 % ( equivalent to 0 . 125 g / kg / hour ) should make up no more than 60 % of the total caloric input to the patient .
Carbohydrate and a source of amino acids should comprise the remaining caloric input .
Essential Fatty Acid Deficiency When Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) is administered to correct essential fatty acid deficiency , eight to ten percent of the caloric input should be supplied by Intralipid 10 % in order to provide adequate amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids .
When EFAD occurs together with stress , the amount of Intralipid 10 % needed to correct the deficiency may be increased .
Administration See MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS section for information regarding mixing this fat emulsion with other parenteral fluids .
Intralipid 10 % can be infused into the same central or peripheral vein as carbohydrate / amino acids solutions by means of a Y - connector near the infusion site .
This allows for mixing of the emulsion immediately before entering the vein or for alternation of each parenteral fluid .
If infusion pumps are used , flow rates of each parenteral fluid should be controlled with a separate pump .
Fat emulsion may also be infused through a separate peripheral site .
Use a 1 . 2 micron filter with Intralipid 10 % .
Filters of less than 1 . 2 micron pore size must not be used .
Conventional administration sets and TPN pooling bags contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components that have DEHP ( di ( 2 - ethylhexyl ) phthalate ) as a plasticizer .
Fat ‑ containing fluids such as Intralipid 10 % extract DEHP from these PVC components and it may be advisable to consider infusion of Intralipid 10 % through a non - DEHP administration set .
Do not use any bag in which there appears to be an oiling out on the surface of the emulsion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
MIXING GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % I . V . Fat Emulsion ) may be mixed with Amino Acid and Dextrose Injections where compatibility have been demonstrated .
Additives known to be incompatible should not be used .
Please consult with pharmacist .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
Do not store solutions containing additives ( e . g . , Vitamins and Minerals ) .
Protect the admixed PN solution from light .
When being mixed the following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH related problems by ensuring that typically acidic Dextrose Injections are not mixed with lipid emulsions alone : • Transfer Dextrose Injection to the TPN Admixture Container • Transfer Amino Acid Injection • Transfer Intralipid 10 % ( A 10 % Intravenous Fat Emulsion ) Note : Amino Acid Injection , Dextrose Injection and Intralipid 10 % may be simultaneously transferred to the admixture container .
Admixing should be accompanied by gentle agitation to avoid localized concentration effects .
Additives must not be added directly to Intralipid 10 % and in no case should Intralipid 10 % be added to the TPN container first .
Bags should be shaken gently after each addition to minimize localized concentration .
If the admixture is not used immediately , the in - use storage time and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 - 8 ° C .
After removal from storage at 2 - 8 ° C , the admixture should be infused within 24 hours .
It is essential that the admixture be prepared using strict aseptic techniques as this nutrient mixture is a good growth medium for microorganisms .
Supplemental electrolytes , trace metals or multivitamins may be required in accordance with the prescription of the attending physician .
The prime destabilizers of emulsions are excessive acidity ( low pH ) and inappropriate electrolyte content .
Careful consideration should be given to additions of divalent cations ( Ca + + and Mg + + ) which have been shown to cause emulsion instability .
Amino acid solutions exert a buffering effect protecting the emulsion .
The admixture should be inspected carefully for “ breaking or oiling out ” of the emulsion .
“ Breaking or oiling out ” is described as the separation of the emulsion and can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
The admixture should also be examined for particulates .
The admixture must be discarded if any of the above is observed .
HOW SUPPLIED Intralipid 10 % is supplied as a sterile emulsion in the following fill sizes : 100 mL , 250 mL and 500 mL .
100 mL : 0338 - 0518 - 58 250 mL : 0338 - 0518 - 12 500 mL : 0338 - 0518 - 13 STORAGE Intralipid 10 % should not be stored above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze Intralipid 10 % .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
REFERENCES • Padley FB : “ Major Vegetable Fats ” , The Lipid Handbook ( Gunstone FD , Harwood JL , Padley FB , eds . )
, Chapman and Hall Ltd . , Cambridge , UK ( 1986 ) , pp . 88 - 9 .
• Levene MI , Wigglesworth JS , Desai R : Pulmonary fat accumulation after Intralipid infusion in the preterm infant .
Lancet 1980 ; 2 ( 8199 ) : 815 - 8 .
• American Academy of Pediatrics : Use of intravenous fat emulsion in pediatric patients .
Pediatrics 1981 ; 68 : 5 ( Nov ) 738 - 43 .
( Rev May 2022 ) Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi , Uppsala , Sweden Intralipid ® is a registered trademark of Fresenius Kabi AB .
Instruction for Use - Intralipid ® 10 % Container 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
The integrity indicator ( Oxalert ™ ) A should be inspected before removing the overwrap .
If the indicator is black the overwrap is damaged and the product should be discarded .
2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Remove the overwrap by tearing at the notch and pulling down along the container .
The Oxalert sachet ( A ) and the oxygen absorber ( B ) should be discarded .
Place the bag on a clean , flat surface or hang on a support hook .
3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air vent on a vented set .
Follow the instructions for use for the infusion set .
Use a spike with diameter of 5 . 6 + / - 0 . 1 mm .
Use a 1 . 2 micron filter as part of the infusion set .
Filters of less than 1 . 2 micron pore size must not be used .
4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Break off the tamper - evident arrow flag from the blue infusion port .
5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Hold the base of the infusion port firmly and insert the spike straight through the center of the septum by rotating the wrist slightly if needed .
NOTE : Assure that the spike is inserted straight into the port and not at an angle .
Inspect the bag and contents for particulate matter in a well - lit environment prior to administration .
Discard the bag if there are any signs of discoloration or particulates .
6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
Hang the bag in the hanger cut and start infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Intralipid 250 mL Container Label NDC 0338 - 0518 - 12 Intralipid ® 1 0 % A 10 % I . V . Fat Emulsion 250 mL For Intravenous Use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
