DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients : Titanium Dioxide 8 % Zinc Oxide 3 . 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Sunscreen Uses : Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • Apply liberally 15 mtnutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply : • - After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • - Immediately after towel drying • - At least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures Including : • - Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 p . m . • - Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Inactive Ingredients : Alumina , Cyclohexasiloxane , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethiconol , Iron Oxide ( CI 77491 ) , Lauryl PEG / PPG 18 / 18 Methicone , Methicone , PEG - 10 Dimethicone Other Information : • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics Principal Display Panel – Carton Label DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED CōTZ ® FACE The Healthier Sunscreen Silky Soft Blends Translucent Sheer Matte Finish Balanced Mineral Complex ™ Helps Prevent Heat Build - Up in Skin , which can Damage the Dermis 100 % Free of : Preservatives , Chemical Sunscreens , Oils Natural Skin Tone Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) Broad Spectrum SPF 40 Net Wt .
1 . 5 oz / 42 . 5 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
