Description Rx only 1 Gram ( 100 mg / mL ) Represents 27 mg ( 1 . 4 mEq ) Ca + + / mL Ansyr Plastic Syringe A HYPERTONIC SOLUTION IN A 10 ML UNIT OF USE SYRINGE FOR PROMPT INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
CAUTION : This solution must not be injected intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
Administer only by slow injection ( not to exceed 1 mL / minute ) 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution .
Each mL contains 100 mg ( 1 . 4 mEq / mL ) of calcium chloride , dihydrate ( 1 . 4 mEq each of Ca + + and Cl - ) in water for injection .
It is provided in a 10 mL Unit of Use Syringe to facilitate prompt intravenous injection .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended for use only as a single - dose injection .
The pH of 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is 6 . 3 ( 5 . 5 to 7 . 5 ) when diluted with water for injection to make a 5 % solution .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolar concentration is 2 . 04 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is oxygen sensitive .
Calcium Chloride , USP dihydrate is chemically designated CaCl2 • 2H2O ( dihydrate ) and is described as white , odorless fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
The plastic syringe is molded from a specially formulated polypropylene .
Water permeates from inside the container at an extremely slow rate which will have an insignificant effect on solution concentration over the expected shelf life .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the syringe material .
Clinical Pharmacology Calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the body and the major fraction is in the bony structure .
Calcium plays important physiological roles , many of which are poorly understood .
It is essential for the functional integrity of the nervous and muscular systems .
It is necessary for normal cardiac function and is one of the factors that operates in the mechanisms involved in the coagulation of blood .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiological mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Indications and Usage 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of hypocalcemia in those conditions requiring a prompt increase in plasma calcium levels .
Contraindications Calcium chloride is contraindicated for cardiac resuscitation in the presence of ventricular fibrillation or in patients with the risk of existing digitalis toxicity .
Calcium chloride is not recommended in the treatment of asystole and electromechanical dissociation .
Warnings 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is irritating to veins and must not be injected into tissues , since severe necrosis and sloughing may occur .
Great care should be taken to avoid extravasation or accidental injection into perivascular tissues .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Precautions Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Because of its additive effect , calcium should be administered very cautiously to a patient who is digitalized or who is taking effective doses of digitalis or digitalis - like preparations .
Injections should be made slowly through a small needle into a large vein to minimize venous irritation and avoid undesirable reactions .
It is particularly important to prevent a high concentration of calcium from reaching the heart because of the danger of cardiac syncope .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with solutions in polypropylene syringes have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness are based on similar clinical conditions in children and adults .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with calcium chloride .
It also is not known whether calcium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Calcium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Adverse Reactions Rapid injection may cause the patient to complain of tingling sensations , a calcium taste , a sense of oppression or “ heat wave ” .
Injections of calcium chloride are accompanied by peripheral vasodilatation as well as a local “ burning ” sensation and there may be a moderate fall in blood pressure .
Should perivascular infiltration occur , I . V . administration at that site should be discontinued at once .
Local infiltration of the affected area with 1 % procaine hydrochloride , to which hyaluronidase may be added , will often reduce venospasm and dilute the calcium remaining in the tissues locally .
Local application of heat may also be helpful .
Drug Abuse and Dependence None known .
Overdosage Too rapid injection may produce lowering of blood pressure and cardiac syncope .
Persistent hypercalcemia from overdosage of calcium is unlikely because of rapid excretion .
In the event of untoward effects from excessive calcium administration , the drug should be discontinued promptly , the patient re - evaluated and appropriate countermeasures instituted , if necessary .
See PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Dosage and Administration 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is administered only by slow intravenous injection ( not to exceed 1 mL / min ) , preferably in a central or deep vein .
The usual precautions for intravenous therapy should be observed .
If time permits , the solution should be warmed to body temperature .
The injection should be halted if the patient complains of any discomfort ; it may be resumed when symptoms disappear .
Following injection , the patient should remain recumbent for a short time .
The usual adult dosage in hypocalcemic disorders ranges from 200 mg to 1 g ( 2 - 10 mL ) at intervals of 1 to 3 days depending on the response of the patient and / or results of serum ionized calcium determinations .
Repeated injections may be required because of rapid excretion of calcium .
The pediatric dosage in hypocalcemic disorders ranges from 2 . 7 to 5 . 0 mg / kg hydrated calcium chloride ( or 0 . 136 to 0 . 252 mEq elemental calcium per kg , or 0 . 027 to 0 . 05 mL of 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection per kg ) .
No data from clinical trials is available about repeated dosages , though textbook references recommend repeat dosages q 4 to 6 hours .
Caution : 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection consists of 1 gram of calcium chloride in a 10 mL syringe , or 100 mg / mL .
This concentration represents 27 mg or 1 . 4 mEq of elemental calcium per mL .
Thus , one 10 mL syringe provides 270 mg of elemental calcium .
The dosage recommendation in various references is given either as amount of calcium chloride or amount of elemental calcium , and often it is not specified .
Ionized calcium concentrations should be measured , to assist in dosage adjustment .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent or broken by hand .
How Supplied 10 % Calcium Chloride Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Studies Medical literature also refers to the administration of calcium chloride in the treatment of magnesium intoxication due to overdosage of magnesium sulfate , and to combat the deleterious effects of hyperkalemia as measured by electrocardiogram ( ECG ) , pending correction of the increased potassium level in the extracellular fluid .
However , adequate well - controlled , randomized clinical studies have not been done to support these indications .
Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1022 - 2 . 0 Revised : 01 / 2018 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
