Active ingredient Sodium Fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Rinse Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warning for this product only Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 6 years of age and older : use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste .
• remove cap • pour 10 milliliters ( 10 mL mark on inside of cap ) ; do not fill above 10 mL mark • vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do now swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessay until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor other information • store at room temperature inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , menthol , methyl salicylate , flavor , cetylpyridinium chloride , sodium saccharin , poloxamer 407 , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , sodium phosphate , disodium phosphate , calcium disodium EDTA , disodium EDTA , sodium benzoate , potassium sorbate , benzyl alcohol , green 3 , yellow 5 ADA Council Statement " The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Core Values Mint Anticavity Fluoride Rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce tooth decay , when used as directed . "
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , distributor of Act Adverse reactions Distributed by Liberty Procurement , Inc 650 Liberty Ave . Union , NJ 07083 USA Visit us at : 222 .
facevalues . com SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Or Your Money Back principal display panel Sealed with printed neckband for your protection .
COREVALUES Compare to the active ingredients in ACT Anticavity FLUORIDE RINSE • Helps prevent cavies • Helps strengthen teeth • Freshens breath Mint Flavor ADA Accepted American Dental Asociation IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use .
18 FL OZ ( 1 PT 2 FL OZ ) 532 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
