[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate , USP is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( 2 - dimethyl - aminoethyl 2 - methylbenzhydryl ether citrate ) .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol and has a molecular weight of 461 . 51 .
The molecular formula C18H23NO • C6H8O7 is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablet , USP contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate , USP .
Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets , USP also contain : calcium stearate , ethylcellulose and lactose monohydrate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculo skeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine citrate has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine citrate is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
PREGNANCY Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine citrate .
It is also not known whether orphenadrine citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine citrate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine citrate are mainly due to the mild anti - cholinergic action of orphenadrine citrate and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine citrate has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
[ 1 ] The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
[ 2 ] OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine citrate is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anticholinergic effects .
[ 3 ] In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
[ 4 ] Treatment for orphenadrine citrate overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anticholinergic effects .
[ 5 ] DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults - Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 1 : 20 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 2 : 60 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 3 : 100 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 4 : 90 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 5 : 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 6 : 28 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 7 : 45 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 8 : 14 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 9 : 120 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0117 - 0 : 56 Tablets in a BOTTLE Orphenadrine Citrate 100 mg ER Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
