1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INFUVITE ADULT is a combination of vitamins indicated for the prevention of vitamin deficiency in adults and children aged 11 and older receiving parenteral nutrition .
The physician should not await the development of clinical signs of vitamin deficiency before initiating vitamin therapy .
INFUVITE ADULT is a combination of vitamins indicated for prevention of vitamin deficiency in adults and children aged 11 and older receiving parenteral nutrition ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • INFUVITE ADULT is a combination product that contains the following vitamins : ascorbic acid , vitamin A , vitamin D , thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , dexpanthenol , vitamin E , vitamin K1 , folic acid , biotin , and vitamin B12 ( 2 . 1 ) • • INFUVITE ADULT is for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution ( 2 . 1 ) • • Recommended daily dosage is 10 mL ( 2 . 1 ) • • INFUVITE ADULT is supplied as a single dose and as a pharmacy bulk package .
• Single Dose : Add one daily dose of 10 mL ( 5 mL from Vial 1 and 5 mL from Vial 2 ) to not less than 500 mL , and preferably 1000 mL , of intravenous dextrose , saline or similar infusion solutions .
( 2 . 2 ) • Pharmacy Bulk Package : Add the contents of Vial 1 to the contents of Vial 2 .
This provides ten 10 mL daily doses .
Take 10 mL from Vial 2 and add to not less than 500 mL , and preferably 1000 mL , of intravenous dextrose , saline or similar infusion solutions .
( 2 . 2 ) • • After dilution in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate resulting solution unless used immediately .
Use solution within 24 hours after dilution ( 2 . 2 ) • • Monitor blood vitamin concentrations ( 2 . 3 ) • • See Full Prescribing Information for drug incompatibilities ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Dosage Instructions INFUVITE ADULT is a combination product that contains the following vitamins : ascorbic acid , vitamin A , vitamin D , thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , dexpanthenol , vitamin E , vitamin K1 , folic acid , biotin , and vitamin B12 .
INFUVITE ADULT is supplied as a single dose or as a pharmacy bulk package for intravenous use intended for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution .
INFUVITE ADULT Single Dose : • • Provides one daily dose of 10 mL ( 5 mL of Vial 1 plus 5 mL of Vial 2 ) which must be diluted prior to intravenous administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
INFUVITE ADULT PharmacyBulk Package : • • Provides ten 10 mL daily doses when the content of vial 1 is transferred into the content of vial 2 .
One 10 mL dose is then added directly to intravenous fluid .
Pharmacy bulk package of INFUVITE ADULT is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program and is restricted to the preparation of admixtures for infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with multiple vitamin deficiencies or with increased vitamin requirements may need multiple daily dosages as indicated .
Some patients do not maintain adequate levels of certain vitamins when this formulation in recommended amounts is the only source of vitamins .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions Do not administer INFUVITE ADULT as a direct , undiluted intravenous injection as it may cause dizziness , faintness , and possible tissue irritation .
INFUVITE ADULT Single Dose : • • Use only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• • Add 5 mL of Vial 1 and 5 mL of Vial 2 to at least 500 mL to 1000 mL , of intravenous dextrose or saline solutions .
• • Discard unused portion .
• • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• • After INFUVITE ADULT is diluted in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate the resulting solution unless it is to be used immediately , and use the solution within 24 hours after dilution .
• • Minimize exposure to light because some of the vitamins in INFUVITE ADULT , particularly A , D and riboflavin , are light sensitive .
INFUVITE ADULT Pharmacy Bulk Package : • • Use only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
• • Transfer the contents of Vial 1 into the contents of Vial 2 to provide ten 10 mL single doses .
• • Each bulk vial closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
• • Once the closure system has been penetrated , complete dispensing from the pharmacy bulk vial should be completed within 4 hours .
The mixed solution may be refrigerated and stored for up to 4 hours .
• • Discard unused portion .
• • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• • One daily 10 mL dose should be added directly to at least 500 mL to 1000 mL , of intravenous dextrose , saline or similar infusion solutions .
• • After INFUVITE ADULT is diluted in an intravenous infusion , refrigerate the resulting solution unless it is to be used immediately , and use the solution within 24 hours after dilution .
• • Minimize exposure to light because some of the vitamins in INFUVITE ADULT , particularly A , D and riboflavin , are light sensitive .
2 . 3 Monitoring Vitamin Blood Levels Blood vitamin concentrations should be monitored to ensure maintenance of adequate levels , particularly in patients receiving parenteral multivitamins as the only source of vitamins for long periods of time .
2 . 4 Drug Incompatibilities • • INFUVITE ADULT is not physically compatible with moderately alkaline solutions such as a sodium bicarbonate solution and other alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide sodium , aminophylline , ampicillin sodium , tetracycline HCl and chlorothiazide sodium .
• • Folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate .
• • Vitamin A and thiamine in INFUVITE ADULT may react with bisulfite solutions such as sodium bisulfite or vitamin K bisulfate .
• • Do not add INFUVITE ADULT directly to intravenous fat emulsions .
• • Consult appropriate references for additional listings of physical and chemical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion when needed .
If incompatibilities are identified , avoid admixture or Y - site administration with vitamin solutions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS INFUVITE ADULT Single Dose : is an injection for intravenous administration consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) .
For the vitamin strengths [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
INFUVITE ADULT Pharmacy Bulk Package : is an injection for intravenous administration consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 50 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 50 mL Fill in 100 mL Vial ) .
The mixed solution ( 100 mL ) will provide ten 10 mL single doses .
For the vitamin strengths [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
• • INFUVITE ADULT supplied as single dose is an injection consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) ( 3 ) • • INFUVITE ADULT supplied as a pharmacy bulk package is an injection consisting of two vials labeled Vial 1 ( 50 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 50 mL fill in 100 mL Vial ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS INFUVITE ADULT is contraindicated in patients who have • • An existing hypervitaminosis , or • • A history of hypersensitivity due to any vitamins or excipients contained in this formulation .
• • Hypersensitivity to any of the vitamins or excipients ( 4 ) • • Existing hypervitaminosis ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Risk of Aluminum Toxicity : For at risk patients ( renal failure or those with prolonged therapy ) , consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels ( 5 . 1 ) • • Allergic Reactions : To thiamine may occur ( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypervitaminosis A : Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk ( 5 . 3 ) • • Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin : Monitor INR ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis : Avoid during testing for this disorder ( 5 . 5 ) • • Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses : Monitor blood vitamin concentrations ( 5 . 6 ) • • False Negative Urine Glucose Tests : Due to vitamin C ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE ADULT contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
To prevent aluminum toxicity periodically monitor aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of INFUVITE ADULT in patients with renal impairment .
5 . 2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria , shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine , which is found in INFUVITE ADULT .
There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine .
No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with INFUVITE ADULT have been reported .
5 . 3 .
Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A , manifested by nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1 . 5 mg / day retinol and in patients with liver disease , Therefore , supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A , an ingredient found in INFUVITE ADULT , should be undertaken with caution [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin INFUVITE ADULT contains Vitamin K , which may decrease the anticoagulant action of warfarin .
In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving INFUVITE ADULT monitor blood levels of prothrombin / INR to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted .
5 . 5 Interference with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia INFUVITE ADULT contains folic acid and cyanocobalamin which can mask serum deficiencies of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in patients with megaloblastic anemia .
Avoid the use of INFUVITE ADULT in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies .
5 . 6 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT , blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing .
INFUVITE ADULT may not correct long - standing specific vitamin deficiencies .
The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE ADULT contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid .
Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose results .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling .
• • Allergic reactions to thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of INFUVITE ADULT .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Dermatologic : rash , erythema , pruritis CNS : headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions including shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema , rash , erythema , pruritis , headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety , diplopia ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported .
The following are examples of these types of interactions : Effect of INFUVITE ADULT on other drugs : • • Antibiotics : Thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin , kanamycin , streptomycin , doxycycline , and lincomycin ( 7 . 1 ) • • Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin ( 7 . 1 ) • • Levodopa : Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease ( 7 . 1 ) • • Phenytoin : Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase risk of seizure activity ( 7 . 1 ) • • Methotrexate : Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate ( 7 . 1 ) Effects of other drugs on INFUVITE ADULT : • • Hydralazine , Isoniazid : Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • Phenytoin : May decrease folic acid concentrations ( 7 . 2 ) • • Chloramphenicol : In patients with pernicious anemia , the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interactions Affecting Co - administered Drugs Warfarin : Vitamin K , a component of INFUVITE ADULT , antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin .
In patients who are co - administered warfarin and INFUVITE ADULT , blood levels of prothrombin / INR should be monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Antibiotics : Thiamine , riboflavin , pyridoxine , niacinamide , and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin , kanamycin , streptomycin , doxycycline , and lincomycin .
Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro , thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced .
Levodopa : Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa ( decrease blood levels of levodopa ) and decrease its efficacy .
Phenytoin : Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity .
Methotrexate : Folic acid may decrease a patient ’ s response to methotrexate therapy .
7 . 2 Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine , Isoniazid : Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements .
Phenytoin : Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations .
Chloramphenicol : In patients with pernicious anemia , the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by chloramphenicol .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnant and Nursing Women : Requirements may exceed those of nonpregnant or nonlactating women ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • • Renal Impairment : Monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus and vitamin A levels in patients with renal impairment ( 8 . 6 ) • • Hepatic Impairment : Monitor vitamin A level in patients with liver disease , high alcohol consumption ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C INFUVITE ADULT has not been studied in pregnant women .
Pregnant women should follow the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowances for their condition , because their vitamin requirements may exceed those of nonpregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with INFUVITE ADULT .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers INFUVITE ADULT has not been studied in lactating women . Lactating women should follow the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowances for their condition , because their vitamin requirement may exceed those of nonlactating women .
Caution should be exercised when INFUVITE ADULT is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 11 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Safety and effectiveness for geriatric use have not been established .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment INFUVITE ADULT has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
Monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus and vitamin A levels in patients with renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment INFUVITE ADULT has not been studied in patients with liver impairments .
Monitor vitamin A level in patients with liver disease , high alcohol consumption [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of acute or chronic overdosage may be those of individual INFUVITE ADULT component toxicity .
In postmarketed surveillance , overdosage with INFUVITE ADULT at two times the prescribed dose did not result in toxicity .
11 DESCRIPTION INFUVITE ADULT ( multiple vitamins injection ) is a sterile product consisting of two vials provided as a single dose or as a pharmacy bulk package , both intended for intravenous use for administration by intravenous infusion after dilution : INFUVITE ADULT Single Dose - two 5 mL single - dose vials labeled Vial 1 and Vial 2 .
INFUVITE ADULT Pharmacy Bulk Package - two vials – 1 each of Vial 1 ( 50 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 50 mL Fill in 100 mL Vial ) .
The mixed solution ( 100 mL ) will provide ten 10 mL single doses .
Each 5 mL of Vial 1 contains : Ascorbic acid ( Vitamin C ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 200 mg Vitamin A * ( as palmitate ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 , 300 IU Vitamin D3 * ( cholecalciferol ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 IU Thiamine ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as the hydrochloride ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) ( as riboflavin 5 - phosphate sodium ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 . 6 mg Pyridoxine HCl ( Vitamin B6 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6 mg Niacinamide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 mg Dexpanthenol ( as d - pantothenyl alcohol ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 mg Vitamin E * ( dl - α - tocopheryl acetate ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 IU Vitamin K1 * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 150 mcg Inactive ingredients : 1 . 4 % polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment , and water for injection .
* Polysorbate 80 is used to water solubilize the oil - soluble vitamins A , D , E , and K . Each 5 mL of Vial 2 contains : Folic acid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 600 mcg Biotin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 mcg Vitamin B12 ( cyanocobalamin ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
5 mcg Inactive ingredients : 30 % propylene glycol , citric acid and / or sodium citrate for pH adjustment , and water for injection .
INFUVITE ADULT makes available a combination of important oil - soluble and water - soluble vitamins in an aqueous solution , formulated for incorporation into intravenous solutions .
The liposoluble vitamins A , D , E , and K have been solubilized in an aqueous medium with polysorbate 80 , permitting intravenous administration of these vitamins .
Contains no more than 70 mcg / L of aluminum ( combined Vials 1 and 2 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies have not been performed with INFUVITE ADULT .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied : INFUVITE ADULT ( multiple vitamins injection ) is supplied as follows : INFUVITE ADULT Single Dose : • • NDC 54643 - 7862 - 1 - Boxes containing ten single - dose vials — five each of Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) , one Vial 1 plus one Vial 2 to be used for a single dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
INFUVITE ADULT Pharmacy Bulk Package : • • NDC 54643 - 7874 - 2 - Boxes containing 2 vials – 1 each of Vial 1 ( 50 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 50 mL Fill in 100 mL Vial ) .
Mix contents of Vial 1 with Vial 2 to provide 10 single doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Storage and Handling : Minimize exposure of INFUVITE ADULT to light because vitamins A , D and riboflavin are light sensitive .
Store under refrigeration , 2 to 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients ( if age appropriate ) and caregivers : • • To watch for signs of allergic reactions such as urticaria , shortness of breath , wheezing and angioedema since hypersensitivity reactions may occur to any of the vitamins or excipients contained in INFUVITE ADULT .
• • To watch for and immediately report nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , blurred vision , especially if patients have renal impairment , as these may be signs of hypervitaminosis A . • • To report other adverse reactions such as rash , erythema , pruritus , headache , dizziness , agitation , anxiety , and diplopia .
• • That the patients on warfarin anticoagulant therapy will be monitored periodically with blood prothrombin / INR levels to determine if their dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted .
• • About the significance of periodic monitoring of blood vitamin concentrations to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing and the need to monitor renal function , calcium , phosphorus , aluminum and vitamin A levels in patients with renal impairment .
• • That INFUVITE ADULT should be avoided in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies .
• • That vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) contained in INFUVITE ADULT may cause false negative urine glucose results .
Manufactured by Sandoz Canada Inc .
145 Jules - Léger Street Boucherville , Qc , Canada , J4B 7K8 Distributed by Baxter Healthcare Corporation for PremierProRx ® Clintec Nutrition Division Deerfield , IL 60015 USA PremierProRx ® is a trademark of Premier , Inc . , used under license Printed in Canada ® INFUVITE is a registered trademark of Sandoz Canada Inc .
46194732 10 - 2016 Infuvite Adult Single Dose Vials Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2A9018PRORXNDC 54643 - 7862 - 1 INFUVITE ® ADULT Multiple Vitamins Injection • For intravenous infusion after dilution only .
Rx only Sterile Contains 5 each of Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) and Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) .
One vial of each to be used for a single dose .
Vial 1 ( 5 mL ) Vial 2 ( 5 mL ) Store under refrigeration , 2 to 8 ° C ( 36 to 46 ° F ) .
PREMIERProRx ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] Infuvite Adult Pharmacy Bulk Package Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2A9019PRORX NDC 54643 - 7874 - 2 INFUVITE ® ADULT Multiple Vitamins Injection PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION Preservative - Free Contains no more than 70 mcg / L of aluminum ( combined Vials 1 and 2 ) .
PREMIERProRx ® [ MULTIMEDIA ]
