Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 3 . 2 % , Zinc Oxide 4 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Isohexadecane , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Octyldodecyl Citrate Crosspolymer , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , C30 - 38 Olefin / Isopropyl Maleate / MA Copolymer , Sodium Chloride , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , PEG - 8 , Alumina , Glycerin , Sodium Citrate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice .
Other information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 697 - 9868 Mon - Fri Principle Display Label NDC : 41250 - 922 - 57 meijer tear free kids Sunscreen lotion pediatrician tested UVA / UVB protection 50 Broad Spectrum SPF 50 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) 1 FL .
OZ .
( 295 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
