Contraindications ( 4 ) 08 / 2017 Warnings ( 5 . 4 ) 08 / 2017 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See Full Prescribing Information for complete boxed warning .
• Women over 35 years old who smoke should not use Lo Loestrin Fe ( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combinationoral contraceptive ( COC ) use ( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lo Loestrin ® Fe is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
• Lo Loestrin Fe is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy ( 1 ) • The efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe in women with a body mass index of > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated ( 1 , 8 . 8 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day for 28 days ( 2 . 1 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 How to Take Lo Loestrin Fe To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , Lo Loestrin Fe must be taken exactly as directed .
Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
Tablets must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack .
Tablets should not be skipped or taken at intervals exceeding 24 hours .
For patient instructions for missed pills , see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
Lo Loestrin Fe tablets may be administered without regard to meals [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 How to Start Lo Loestrin Fe Instruct the patient to begin taking Lo Loestrin Feon Day 1 of her menstrual cycle ( that is , the first day of her menstrual bleeding ) [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
One blue tablet should be taken daily for 24 consecutive days , followed by one white tablet daily for 2 consecutive days , followed by one brown tablet daily for 2 consecutive days .
Instruct the patient to use a non - hormonal contraceptive as back - up during the first 7 days if she starts taking Lo Loestrin Fe other than on the first day of her menstrual cycle .
For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion , Lo Loestrin Fe may be started no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum .
Recommend use of a non - hormonal back - up method for the first 7 days .
When COCs are used during the postpartum period , the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated with the postpartum period must be considered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The possibility of ovulation and conception before starting COCs should also be considered .
Lo Loestrin Fe may be initiated immediately after a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage ; if the patient starts Lo Loestrin Fe immediately , additional contraceptive measures are not needed .
2 . 3 Switching from anotherHormonal Method of Contraception If the patient is switching from a combination hormonal method such as : ○ Another pill ○ Vaginal ring ○ Patch • Instruct her to take the first blue tablet on the day she would have taken her next COC pill .
She should not continue taking the tablets from her previous birth control pack , and should not skip any days between packs .
If she does not have a withdrawal bleed , rule out pregnancy before starting Lo Loestrin Fe .
• If she previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch , she should start using Lo Loestrin Fe on the day she would have resumed the previous product .
If the patient is switching from a progestin - only method such as a : ○ Progestin - only pill ○ Implant ○ Intrauterine system ○ Injection • Instruct her to take the first blue tablet on the day she would have taken her next progestin - only pill , or had her next injection or on the day of removal of her implant .
• If switching from an IUD , depending on the timing of removal , back - up contraception may be needed .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If the patient vomits or has diarrhea ( within 3 to 4 hours after she takes a blue or white pill ) , she should follow the instructions in the “ What to Do if You Miss Pills ” section [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lo Loestrin Fe ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) is available in blister packs .
Each blister pack ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 blue , round ( active ) tablets imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 421 ” on the other and each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol .
• 2 white , hexagonal ( active ) tablets imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 422 ” on the other and each containing 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol .
• 2 brown , round ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 624 ” on the other and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Lo Loestrin Fe consists of 28 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 24 blue tablets ( active ) , each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 white tablets ( active ) , each containing 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 brown tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) , each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not prescribe Lo Loestrin Fe to women who are known to have the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with or without aura if over age 35 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] ● Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitavir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop Lo Loestrin Fe if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop Lo Loestrin Fe at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start Lo Loestrin Fe no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding ( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue Lo Loestrin Fe if jaundice occurs ( 5 . 3 ) • High blood pressure : Do not prescribe Lo Loestrin Fe for women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease ( 5 . 5 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Lo Loestrin Fe .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia ( 5 . 7 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Lo Loestrin Fe if indicated ( 5 . 8 ) • Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea ( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events Stop Lo Loestrin Fe if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event occurs .
Although use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolism , pregnancy increases the risk of venous thromboembolism as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of venous thromboembolism in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk is highest during the first year of use of a COC .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
If feasible , stop Lo Loestrin Fe at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
Start Lo Loestrin Fe no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) , although , in general , the risk is greatest in older ( > 35 years of age ) , hypertensive women who also smoke .
COCs also increase the risk for stroke in women with underlying risk factors .
Oral contraceptives must be used with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
Stop Lo Loestrin Fe if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
5 . 2 Carcinoma of the Breast and Cervix Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use Lo Loestrin Fe because breast cancer is a hormonally - sensitive tumor .
There is substantial evidence that COCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that COCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 3 Liver Disease Discontinue Lo Loestrin Fe if jaundice develops .
Steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases per 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
Oral contraceptive - related cholestasis may occur in women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis .
Women with a history of COC - related cholestasis may have the condition recur with subsequent COC use .
5 . 4 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Lo Loestrin Fe prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Lo Loestrin Fe can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 5 High Blood Pressure For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Lo Loestrin Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
Women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease should not use COCs .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
5 . 7 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking Lo Loestrin Fe .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance in a dose - related fashion .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 8 Headache If a woman taking Lo Loestrin Fe develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Lo Loestrin Fe if indicated .
An increase in frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) may be a reason for immediate discontinuation of the COC .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC .
The clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe also assessed unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
The participants in this 12 - month clinical trial ( N = 1 , 582 who had at least one post - treatment evaluation ) completed over 15 , 000 cycles of exposure .
A total of 1 , 257 women ( 85 . 9 percent ) experienced unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting at some time during Cycles 2 to 13 of this study .
The incidence of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting was highest during Cycle 2 ( 53 percent ) and lowest at Cycle 13 ( 36 percent ) .
Among these women , the mean number of days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting during a 28 - day cycle ranged from 1 . 8 to 3 . 2 days .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly constant over the one year study , with an average of less than 2 days per cycle .
Women who are not pregnant and use Lo Loestrin Fe may experience amenorrhea ( absence of scheduled and unscheduled bleeding / spotting ) .
In the clinical trial with Lo Loestrin Fe , the incidence of amenorrhea increased from 32 percent in Cycle 1 to 49 percent by Cycle 13 .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
5 . 10 COC Use before or during Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiologic studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Lo Loestrin Fe use should be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 11 Depression Women with a history of depression should be carefully observed and Lo Loestrin Fe discontinued if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 12 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may change the results of some laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid binding globulin increase with use of COCs .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Other Conditions In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking COCs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and smoking [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 percent ) are nausea / vomiting ( 7 percent ) , headache ( 7 percent ) , bleeding irregularities ( 5 percent ) , dysmenorrhea ( 4 percent ) , weight change ( 4 percent ) , breast tenderness ( 4 percent ) , acne ( 3 percent ) , abdominal pain ( 3 percent ) , anxiety ( 2 percent ) and depression ( 2 percent ) ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A multicenter phase 3 clinical trial evaluated the safety and efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe for pregnancy prevention .
The study was a one year , open - label , single - arm , uncontrolled study .
A total of 1 , 660 women aged 18 to 45 were enrolled and took at least one dose of Lo Loestrin Fe [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 percentof all Treated Subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 percent of the 1 , 660 women using Lo Loestrin Fe were the following in order of decreasing incidence : nausea / vomiting ( 7 percent ) , headache ( 7 percent ) , bleeding irregularities ( including metrorrhagia , irregular menstruation , menorrhagia , vaginal hemorrhage and dysfunctional uterine bleeding ) ( 5 percent ) , dysmenorrhea ( 4 percent ) , weight fluctuation ( 4 percent ) , breast tenderness ( 4 percent ) , acne ( 3 percent ) , abdominal pain ( 3 percent ) , anxiety ( 2 percent ) , and depression ( 2 percent ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : 10 . 7 percent of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 percent of subjects leading to discontinuation of treatment were in decreasing order : menstrual irregularities ( including metrorrhagia , irregular menstruation , menorrhagia and vaginal hemorrhage ) ( 4 percent ) , headache / migraine ( 1 percent ) , mood disorder ( including mood swings , depression , anxiety ) ( 1 percent ) , and weight fluctuation ( 1 percent ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : deep vein thrombosis , ovarian vein thrombosis , cholecystitis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Lo Loestrin Fe .
• Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co - Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize contraceptive hormones , counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception .
Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones , and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration of HIV protease inhibitors or of non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
7 . 2 Increase in Plasma Levels of Ethinyl Estradiol Associated with Co - Administered Drugs Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 percent .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol levels , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone levels .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Lo Loestrin Fe with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 Changes in Plasma Levels of Co - Administered Drugs COCs containing some synthetic estrogens ( for example , ethinyl estradiol ) may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds .
COCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Consult the labeling of the concurrently - used drug to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for enzyme alterations .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Not recommended ; can decrease milk production ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
COCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
Women who do not breastfeed should not start COCs earlier than 4 weeks postpartum .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has weaned her child .
Estrogen - containing OCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same in postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Lo Loestrin Fe has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Lo Loestrin Fe has not been studied in subjects with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment on the disposition of Lo Loestrin Fe .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index The safety and efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Lo Loestrin Fe ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) provides an oral contraceptive regimen consisting of 24 blue active tablets and 2 white active tablets that contain the active ingredients specified for each tablet below , followed by 2 non - hormonal placebo tablets : • 24 blue , round tablets each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 white , hexagonal tablets each containing 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 brown , round tablets each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate Each blue tablet also contains the inactive ingredients mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , povidone , vitamin E and lactose monohydrate .
Each white tablet also contains the inactive ingredients mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , povidone , vitamin E and lactose monohydrate .
Each brown tablet contains ferrous fumarate , mannitol , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , sucralose and spearmint flavor .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Ferrous fumarate tablets are not USP for dissolution and assay .
The empirical formula of ethinyl estradiol is C20H24O2 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of ethinyl estradiol is [ 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - ] .
The empirical formula of norethindrone acetate is C22H28O3 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of norethindrone acetate is [ 19 - Norpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - , ( 17α ) - ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Lo Loestrin Fe .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norethindrone acetate is deacetylated to norethindrone after oral administration , and the disposition of norethindrone acetate is indistinguishable from that of orally administered norethindrone .
Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol are absorbed from Lo Loestrin Fe , with maximum plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol generally occurring 1 to 2 hours postdose .
Both are subject to first - pass metabolism after oral dosing , resulting in an absolute bioavailability of approximately 64 percent for norethindrone and 55 percent for ethinyl estradiol .
The rate of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol absorption from Lo Loestrin Fe tablets containing the combination of 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol is slower than that from a norethindrone suspension / ethinyl estradiol solution , but the extent of absorption is equivalent .
Ethinyl estradiol bioavailability from Lo Loestrin Fe tablets containing 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol alone is equivalent to that from an ethinyl estradiol solution .
The plasma norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol pharmacokinetic profiles and serum sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) concentrations following multiple - dose administration of Lo Loestrin Fe were characterized in 15 healthy female volunteers .
The mean plasma concentrations are shown below ( Figures 1 and 2 ) , and pharmacokinetic parameters are found in Table 1 .
Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone Cmax values increase by a factor of 1 . 4 and 1 . 9 , respectively , following 24 days administration of Lo Loestrin Fe combination tablets as compared to single - dose administration .
Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone AUC0 – 24 h values increase by a factor of 1 . 6 and 2 . 5 , respectively , following 24 days administration of Lo Loestrin Fe combination tablets as compared to single - dose administration .
Norethindrone concentrations more than double by Day 24 due to both accumulation and increased SHBG concentration .
Steady state with respect to ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone is reached by Day 5 and Day 13 , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 1 .
Summary of Norethindrone ( NE ) and Ethinyl Estradiol ( EE ) Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values Following Oral Administration of Lo Loestrin Fe to Healthy Female Volunteers ( n = 15 ) Regimen Study Day Arithmetic Meana ( Percent CV ) by Pharmacokinetic Parameter Analyte Cmax tmax AUC0 - 24 h Cmin Cavg Single Dose Lo Loestrin Fe combination tabletc 1 NE 7360 ( 21 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 3 - 6 . 0 ) 33280 ( 33 ) -- -- EE 50 . 9 ( 27 ) 1 . 3 ( 1 . 0 - 6 . 0 ) 389 . 9 ( 27 ) -- -- SHBG -- -- -- 54 . 8 ( 33 ) b -- Multiple Dose Lo Loestrin Fe combination tabletc x 24 days 24 NE 13900 ( 34 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 - 3 . 0 ) 84160 ( 41 ) 917 ( 84 ) 3510 ( 41 ) EE 71 . 3 ( 33 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 3 – 2 . 0 ) 621 . 3 ( 41 ) 10 . 0 ( 92 ) 25 . 9 ( 41 ) SHBG -- -- -- 109 ( 38 ) -- Multiple Dose Lo Loestrin Fe combination tabletc x 24 days and ethinyl estradiol alone tabletd x 2 days 26 EE 49 . 9 ( 34 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 – 3 . 0 ) 403 . 6 ( 50 ) -- -- Cmax = Maximum plasma concentration ( pg / mL ) ; tmax = Time of Cmax ( h ) ; AUC0 - 24 h = Area under plasma concentration versus time curve from 0 to 24 hours ( pg · h / mL ) ; Cmin = Minimum plasma concentration ( pg / mL ) ; Cavg = Average plasma concentration = AUC0 - 24 h / 24 ( pg / mL ) Percent CV = Coefficient of Variation ( percent ) ; SHBG = Sex hormone binding globulin ( nmol / L ) aThe median ( range ) is reported for tmax bThe Cmin concentration reported for SHBG is the pre - dose concentration cLo Loestrin Fe combination tablets contain 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol dLo Loestrin Fe ethinyl estradiol alone tablets contain 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol Food Effect : Lo Loestrin Fe tablets may be administered without regard to meals .
Administration of food with a single - dose of a Lo Loestrin Fe combination tablet did not affect the maximum concentration of norethindrone and increased the extent of absorption by 24 percent ; it decreased the maximum concentration of ethinyl estradiol by 23 percent and did not affect the extent of absorption .
Administration of food with a single - dose of a Lo Loestrin Fe ethinyl estradiol alone tablet decreased the maximum concentration of ethinyl estradiol by 31 percent and did not affect the extent of absorption .
Distribution Volume of distribution of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ranges from 2 to 4 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of both steroids is extensive ( > 95 percent ) ; norethindrone binds to both albumin and SHBG , whereas ethinyl estradiol binds only to albumin .
Although ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , it induces SHBG synthesis .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
A small amount of norethindrone acetate is metabolically converted to ethinyl estradiol .
Ethinyl estradiol is also extensively metabolized , both by oxidation and by conjugation with sulfate and glucuronide .
Sulfates are the major circulating conjugates of ethinyl estradiol and glucuronides predominate in urine .
The primary oxidative metabolite is 2 - hydroxy ethinyl estradiol , formed by the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 .
Part of the first - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol is believed to occur in gastrointestinal mucosa .
Ethinyl estradiol may undergo enterohepatic circulation .
Excretion Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
Plasma clearance values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are similar ( approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg ) .
Elimination half - lives of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of 1 mg norethindrone acetate / 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol tablets are approximately 10 hours and 16 hours , respectively .
Specific populations The pharmacokinetics of Lo Loestrin Fe in presence of renal or hepatic impairment has not been evaluated [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a one year ( thirteen 28 - day cycles ) multicenter open - label clinical trial , 1 , 270 women 18 to 35 years of age , were studied to assess the efficacy of Lo Loestrin Fe , completing the equivalent of 12 , 482 28 - day evaluable cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of all enrolled women was : Caucasian ( 74 . 9 percent ) , African - American ( 11 . 8 percent ) , Hispanic ( 9 . 8 percent ) , Asian ( 1 . 3 percent ) , and Other ( 2 . 2 percent ) .
Women with body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 35 mg / m2 were excluded from the study .
The weight range for those women treated was 89 to 260 lbs . , with a mean weight of 150 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 51 percent had not used hormonal contraception immediately prior to enrolling in this study .
Of treated women , 13 . 7 percent were lost to follow - up , 10 . 7 percent discontinued due to an adverse event , and 8 . 9 percent discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women 18 to 35 years of age was 2 . 92 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 percentconfidence interval 1 . 94 – 4 . 21 ) , based on 28 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and extending through the 7 days following the last dose of Lo Loestrin Fe .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes women who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Lo Loestrin ® Fe ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) is available in blister cards ( dispensers ) containing 28 tablets : NDC 0430 - 0420 - 14 Cartons of 5 blister cards ( dispensers ) NDC 0430 - 0420 - 60 Cartons of 30 blister cards ( dispensers ) Each blister card ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 blue , round tablets ( active ) imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 421 ” on the other and each containing 1 mg norethindrone and 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 white , hexagonal tablets ( active ) imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 422 ” on the other and each containing 10 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 2 brown , round tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) imprinted with “ WC ” on one side and “ 624 ” on the other and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate 16 . 2 Storage Conditions Store at 25º C ( 77º F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30º C ( 59 - 86º F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this drug and all drugs out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Counsel patients that cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs .
• Counsel patients that Lo Loestrin Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Counsel patients on the Warnings and Precautions associated with COCs .
• Counsel patients to take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See “ What to Do if You Miss Pills ” section in FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
• Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Lo Loestrin Fe .
• Counsel patients who are breastfeeding or who desire to breastfeed that COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Counsel any patient who starts COCs postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a blue tablet for 7 consecutive days .
• Counsel patients that amenorrhea may occur .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles .
FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Guide for Using Lo Loestrin Fe WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use Lo Loestrin Fe if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects ( heart and blood vessel problems ) from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Birth control pills help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant when taken as directed .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
What is Lo Loestrin Fe ?
Lo Loestrin Fe is a birth control pill .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called norethindrone acetate .
How well does Lo Loestrin Fework ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of one clinical study , about 2 to 4 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Lo Loestrin Fe .
Women with a BMI above 35 kg / m2 were not studied in the clinical trial , so it is not known how well Lo Loestrin Fe protects against pregnancy in such women .
If you are overweight , discuss with your healthcare provider whether Lo Loestrin Fe is the best choice for you .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How do I take Lo Loestrin Fe ?
• Take one pill every day at the same time .
If you miss pills you could get pregnant .
This includes starting the pack late .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• You may have spotting or light bleeding , or may feel sick to your stomach during the first few months of taking Lo Loestrin Fe .
If you have spotting or light bleeding or feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take these missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• If you have trouble remembering to take Lo Loestrin Fe , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea ( within 3 to 4 hours after you take your pill ) , you should follow the instructions for “ What to Do if You Miss Pills ” .
• If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
Before you start taking Lo Loestrin Fe 1 .
Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day .
2 .
Look at your pill pack : The Lo Loestrin Fe pill pack has 24 " active " blue pills ( with hormones ) and 2 “ active ” white pills ( with hormones ) for Weeks 1 , 2 , 3 and part of Week 4 .
The pill pack also has 2 " reminder " brown pills ( without hormones ) for the last part of Week 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Find : • Where on the pack to start taking pills , • In what order to take the pills ( follow the arrows ) , and • The week numbers as shown in the picture above 4 .
Have ready at all times : • Another kind of birth control ( such as a condom and spermicide ) to use as a back - up in case you miss pills • An extra pill pack When to start the first pack of Lo Loestrin Fe • Take the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period .
( This is the day you start bleeding or spotting , even if it is almost midnight when the bleeding begins . )
• Place the day label strip on the tablet dispenser over the area that has the days of the week ( starting with Sunday ) printed on the plastic .
• Take the first blue pill of the first pack during the first 24 hours of your period .
• You will not need to use a back - up method of birth control , because you are starting the pill at the beginning of your period .
However , if you start Lo Loestrin Fe later than the first day of your period , or if you start after having a baby and you have not yet resumed your periods , you should use another method of birth control ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up method until you have taken 7 blue pills .
When You Switch from a Different Method of Hormonal Contraception • When you switch from another birth control pill , start Lo Loestrin Fe on the first day you would have started your previous birth control pack .
• When you switch from a vaginal ring or skin patch , finish the 21 days of use , and wait 7 days after removal of the ring or patch before starting Lo Loestrin Fe .
• When you switch from a progestin - only pill , start Lo Loestrin Fe the next day .
• When you switch from an implant , start Lo Loestrin Fe on the day of implant removal .
• If you switch from an injectable contraceptive , start Lo Loestrin Fe on the day on which the next injection would be due .
• If you switch from an IUD , discuss with your healthcare provider when to start Lo Loestrin Fe .
What to do during the month • Take one pill at the same time every day until the pack is empty .
• Do not skip pills even if you are spotting or bleeding between monthly periods or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• When you finish a pack of Lo Loestrin Fe , start the next pack on the day after your last brown “ reminder " pill .
Do not skip any days between packs .
What to do if you miss pills Birth control pills may not be as effective if you miss any blue or white pills , especially if you miss the first few or the last few blue pills in a pack .
If you missONE blue pill , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take two pills in 1 day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss TWO blue pills in a row in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • Take 1 .
Two pills on the day you remember and two pills the next day .
2 .
One pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days .
If you missTWO pills ( blue or white ) in a row in Week 3 or Week 4 of your pack , follow these steps : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up for those 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you missTHREE OR MORE pills ( blue or white ) in a row at any time , follow these steps : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex on the days when you missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up the next time you have sex and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you forget either of the 2 brown " reminder " pills in Week 4 , follow these steps : • Throw away the pills you missed .
• Keep taking one pill each day until the pack is empty .
• You do not need to use a back - up method of birth control .
If you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed : • Use a back - up method of birth control anytime you have sex .
• Keep taking one pill each day until you can reach your healthcare provider .
Who should not take Lo Loestrin Fe ?
Your healthcare provider will not give you Lo Loestrin Fe if you have : • Ever had blood clots in your legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) , lungs ( pulmonary embolism ) , or eyes ( retinal thrombosis ) • Ever had a stroke • Ever had a heart attack • Certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • An inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • High blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • Diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • Ever had certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision • Ever had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • Liver disease , including liver tumors • Take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
Also , do not take birth control pills if you : • Smoke and are over 35 years old • Are or suspect you are pregnant • Are allergic to anything in Lo Loestrin Fe Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy , also called cholestasis of pregnancy .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the above conditions ( your healthcare provider may recommend another method of birth control ) .
What else should I know about taking Lo Loestrin Fe ?
Birth control pills donotprotect you against any sexually transmitted disease , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss a period , you could be pregnant .
However , some women miss periods or have light periods on birth control pills , even when they are not pregnant .
Contact your healthcare provider for advice if you : • Think you are pregnant • Miss one period and have not taken your birth control pills every day • Miss two periods in a row Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
You should stop Lo Loestrin Fe at least four weeks before you have surgery and not restart it until at least two weeks after the surgery , due to an increased risk of blood clots .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like Lo Loestrin Fe , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • wort • topiramate Consider using another birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your healthcare provider may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like a condom and spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
If you are scheduled for any laboratory tests , tell your healthcare provider that you are taking birth control pills .
Certain blood tests may be affected by birth control pills .
What are the most serious risks of taking Lo Loestrin Fe ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) A few women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure • Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain or pressure in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What are the common side effects of birth control pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat ( cholesterol , triglyceride ) levels in the blood • Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself • Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight gain This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
Birth control pills do not seem to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What should I know about my period when taking Lo Loestrin Fe ?
When you take Lo Loestrin Fe you may have bleeding and spotting between periods , called unscheduled bleeding .
Approximately half of the women who use Lo Loestrin Fe have unscheduled bleeding or spotting in the first months of use , and about one - third of users continue to have unscheduled bleeding or spotting after one year of use .
If the unscheduled bleeding or spotting is heavy or lasts for more than a few days , you should discuss this with your healthcare provider .
What if I miss my scheduled period when taking Lo Loestrin Fe ?
It is not uncommon to miss your period .
However , if you go two or more months in a row without a period , or you miss your period after a month where you did not take all your pills correctly , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
Stop taking Lo Loestrin Fe if you are pregnant .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
General Advice about Lo Loestrin Fe Your healthcare provider prescribed Lo Loestrin Fe for you .
Please do not share Lo Loestrin Fe with anyone else .
Keep Lo Loestrin Fe out of the reach of children .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your pharmacist for a more detailed label written for healthcare professionals .
Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 Product of Germany © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Allergan ® and its design are trademarks of Allergan , Inc .
LO LOESTRIN ® and its design are registered trademarks of Allergan Pharmaceuticals International Limited .
Patented .
See www . allergan . com / patents .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0430 - 0420 - 14 Lo Loestrin Fe 26 days of active therapy 5 blister cards of 28 tablets each Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol , ethinyl estradiol and ferrous fumarate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
