Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Panthenol ( 0 . 2 % ) ---------------------- hair shampoo Biotin ( 0 . 06 % ) -------------------------- hair shampoo To restore hair condition and keep maintaining healthy and stronger hair .
Keep out of reach of children Wet hair , take an appropriate amount , massage onto scalp for five minutes , and rinse with warm water , repeat if desired .
For external use only Do not use when Your scalp is red , inflamed , irritated or painful .
Do not apply on other parts of the body .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Do not apply directly to wound or open cut .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash or irritation on scalp develops and lasts .
Do not swallow .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance .
Store at room temperature Wet hair , take an appropriate amount , massage onto scalp for five minutes , and rinse with warm water , repeat if desired .
Water , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Ammonium Lauryl Sulfate , Cocamide DEA , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Cocamide MEA , Glycol Distearate , Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Dimethicone , Dimethyl Sulfone , Angelica Gigas Root Extract , Astragalus Membranaceus Root Extract , Red Ginseng Extract , Hydroxypropyltrimonium Hydrolyzed Silk , Niacinamide , Zanthoxylum Piperitum Fruit Extract , Usnea Barbata ( Lichen ) Extract , Pulsatilla Koreana Extract , Polyquaternium - 7 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Laureth - 23 , C12 - 15 Pareth - 3 , Salicylic Acid , Citric Acid , Sodium Citrate , Polyquaternium - 10 , Benzophenone - 5 , CI 15985 , CI 19140 , CI 60730 , Tetrasodium EDTA , Fragrance MoReturn Shampoo NATURAL HERBAL HAIR CARE The original hair recovery system provides the best scalp condition for healthier hair .
With herbal ingredients extracted from red ginseng , angelica root , and milk vetch root , the product ensures healthy hair root and grow strong hair .
Various vitamins included in the product will make your hair silky , and keep maintaining healthy and stronger hair .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
