1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of homocystinuria to decrease elevated homocysteine blood concentrations in pediatric and adult patients .
Included within the category of homocystinuria are : • • Cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency • • 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) deficiency • • Cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) defect Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is a methylating agent indicated in pediatric and adult patients for the treatment of homocystinuria to decrease elevated homocysteine blood concentrations .
Included within the category of homocystinuria are ( 1 ) : • • Cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency • • 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) deficiency • • Cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) defect 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients 3 Years of Age and Older • • The recommended dosage is 6 grams per day , administered orally in divided doses of 3 grams twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) Pediatric Patients Less than 3 Years of Age • • The recommended starting dosage is 100 mg / kg / day , administered orally in divided doses of 50 mg / kg twice daily , and then increased weekly by 50 mg / kg increments .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Monitor patient response by plasma homocysteine concentrations .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Increase the dosage gradually until the plasma total homocysteine concentration is undetectable or present only in small amounts .
( 2 . 1 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions • • Prescribed amount of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution should be measured with the measuring scoop provided and then dissolved in 4 to 6 ounces of water , juice , milk , or formula until completely dissolved , or mixed with food for immediate ingestion .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Therapy with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution should be directed by physicians knowledgeable in the management of patients with homocystinuria .
Adults and Pediatric Patients 3 Years of Age and Older The recommended dosage is 6 grams per day , administered orally in divided doses of 3 grams twice daily .
Pediatric Patients Less than 3 Years of Age The recommended starting dosage is 100 mg / kg / day divided in twice daily doses , and then increased weekly by 50 mg / kg increments .
Monitoring Monitor patient response to Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution by homocysteine plasma concentration .
Increase the dosage in all patients gradually until the plasma total homocysteine concentration is undetectable or present only in small amounts .
An initial response in homocysteine plasma concentrations usually occurs within several days and steady state plasma concentrations occur within a month .
Monitor plasma methionine concentrations in patients with CBS deficiency [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Maximum Dosage Dosages of up to 20 grams / day have been necessary to control homocysteine concentrations in some patients .
However , one pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic in vitro simulation study indicated minimal benefit from exceeding a twice - daily dosing schedule and a 150 mg / kg / day dosage for Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • • Shake bottle lightly before removing cap .
• • Measure the number of scoops for the patient ' s dose with the scoop provided .
One level scoop ( 1 . 5 mL ) is equivalent to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
• • Mix powder with 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula until completely dissolved , or mix with food , then ingest mixture immediately .
• • Always replace the cap tightly after using and protect the bottle from moisture .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is a white , granular , hygroscopic powder for oral solution available in bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
For oral solution : in bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• • None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypermethioninemia in Patients with CBS Deficiency : Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution may worsen elevated plasma methionine concentrations and cerebral edema has been reported .
Monitor plasma methionine concentrations in patients with CBS deficiency .
Keep plasma methionine concentrations below 1 , 000 micromol / L through dietary modification and , if necessary , a reduction of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution dosage .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypermethioninemia in Patients with CBS Deficiency Patients with homocystinuria due to cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency may also have elevated plasma methionine concentrations .
Treatment with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution may further increase methionine concentrations due to the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine .
Cerebral edema has been reported in patients with hypermethioninemia , including patients treated with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor plasma methionine concentrations in patients with CBS deficiency .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be kept below 1 , 000 micromol / L through dietary modification and , if necessary , a reduction of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution dosage .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • • Hypermethioninemia and cerebral edema in patients with CBS deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) are : nausea and gastrointestinal distress , based on physician survey .
( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lukare Medical , LLC at 1 - 855 - 752 - 9317 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The assessment of clinical adverse reactions is based on a survey study of 41 physicians , who treated a total of 111 homocystinuria patients with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
Adverse reactions were retrospectively recalled and were not collected systematically in this open - label , uncontrolled , physician survey .
Thus , this list may not encompass all types of potential adverse reactions , reliably estimate their frequency , or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions were reported ( Table 1 ) : Table 1 : Number of Patients with Adverse Reactions to Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution by Physician SurveyAdverse Reactions Number of Patients Nausea 2 Gastrointestinal distress 2 Diarrhea 1 " Bad Taste " 1 " Caused Odor " 1 Questionable psychological changes 1 “ Aspirated the powder ” 1 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Severe cerebral edema and hypermethioninemia have been reported within 2 weeks to 6 months of starting Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution therapy , with complete recovery after discontinuation of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
All patients who developed cerebral edema had homocystinuria due to CBS deficiency and had severe elevation in plasma methionine concentrations ( range 1 , 000 to 3 , 000 microM ) .
As cerebral edema has also been reported in patients with hypermethioninemia , secondary hypermethioninemia due to betaine therapy has been postulated as a possible mechanism of action [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Other adverse reactions include : anorexia , agitation , depression , irritability , personality disorder , sleep disturbed , dental disorders , diarrhea , glossitis , nausea , stomach discomfort , vomiting , hair loss , hives , skin odor abnormalities , and urinary incontinence .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from a limited number of published case reports and postmarketing experience with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution use in pregnancy have not identified any drug associated risks for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with betaine .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of betaine in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution have been established in pediatric patients .
The majority of case studies of homocystinuria patients treated with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution have been pediatric patients , including patients ranging in age from 24 days to 17 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Children younger than 3 years of age may benefit from dose titration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no information on Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution overdose in humans .
In an acute toxicology study in rats , death occurred frequently at doses equal to or greater than 10 g / kg .
11 DESCRIPTION Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is an agent for the treatment of homocystinuria .
It contains no ingredients other than anhydrous betaine .
Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is a white , granular , hygroscopic powder , which is diluted in water and administered orally .
The chemical name of betaine anhydrous powder is trimethylglycine .
It has a molecular weight of 117 . 15 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution acts as a methyl group donor in the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine in patients with homocystinuria .
Betaine occurs naturally in the body .
It is a metabolite of choline and is present in small amounts in foods such as beets , spinach , cereals , and seafood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution was observed to lower plasma homocysteine concentration in three types of homocystinuria , including CBS deficiency ; MTHFR deficiency ; and cbl defect .
Patients have taken Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution for many years without evidence of tolerance .
There has been no demonstrated correlation between Betaine concentration and homocysteine concentration .
In CBS - deficient patients , large increases in methionine concentration over baseline have been observed .
Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution has also been demonstrated to increase low plasma methionine and S - adenosylmethionine ( SAM ) concentrations in patients with MTHFR deficiency and cbl defect .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution are not available .
Plasma concentrations following administration of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution have not been measured in patients and have not been correlated to homocysteine concentration .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity and fertility studies have not been conducted with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
No evidence of genotoxicity was demonstrated in the following tests : metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes ; bacterial reverse mutation assay ; and mouse micronucleus test .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution was studied in a double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study in 6 patients ( 3 males and 3 females ) with CBS deficiency , ages 7 to 32 years at enrollment .
Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution was administered at a dosage of 3 grams twice daily , for 12 months .
Plasma homocystine concentrations were significantly reduced ( p < 0 . 01 ) compared to placebo .
Plasma methionine concentrations were variable and not significantly different compared to placebo .
Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution has also been evaluated in observational studies without concurrent controls in patients with homocystinuria due to CBS deficiency , MTHFR deficiency , or cbl defect .
A review of 16 case studies and the randomized controlled trial previously described was also conducted , and the data available for each study were summarized ; however , no formal statistical analyses were performed .
The studies included a total of 78 male and female patients with homocystinuria who were treated with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution .
This included 48 patients with CBS deficiency , 13 with MTHFR deficiency , and 11 with cbl defect , ranging in age from 24 days to 53 years .
The majority of patients ( n = 48 ) received 6 gm / day , 3 patients received less than 6 gm / day , 12 patients received doses from 6 to 15 gm / day , and 5 patients received doses over 15 gm / day .
Most patients were treated for more than 3 months ( n = 57 ) and 30 patients were treated for 1 year or longer ( range 1 month to 11 years ) .
Homocystine is formed nonenzymatically from two molecules of homocysteine , and both have been used to evaluate the effect of Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution in patients with homocystinuria .
Plasma homocystine or homocysteine concentrations were reported numerically for 62 patients , and 61 of these patients showed decreases with Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution treatment .
Homocystine decreased by 83 to 88 % regardless of the pre - treatment concentrations , and homocysteine decreased by 71 to 83 % , regardless of pre - treatment concentration .
Clinical improvement , such as improvement in seizures , or behavioral and cognitive functioning , was reported by the treating physicians in about three - fourths of patients .
Many of these patients were also taking other therapies such as vitamin B6 ( pyridoxine ) , vitamin B12 ( cobalamin ) , and folate with variable biochemical responses .
In most cases , adding Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution resulted in a further reduction of either homocystine or homocysteine concentrations .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution is available in plastic bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous as a white , granular , hygroscopic powder .
Each bottle is equipped with a plastic child - resistant cap and is supplied with a polypropylene measuring scoop .
One level scoop ( 1 . 5 mL ) is equal to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
NDC 55792 - 002 - 01 180 g / bottle Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution can be ordered by calling Lukare Medical , LLC . , Customer service at 1 - 855 - 752 - 9317 .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Preparation and Administration Instructions Instruct patients and caregivers to administer Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution as follows : • • Shake bottle lightly before removing cap .
• • Measure the number of scoops for the patient ' s dose with the scoop provided .
One level scoop ( 1 . 5 mL ) is equivalent to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
• • Mix powder with 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula until completely dissolved , or mix with food , then ingest mixture immediately .
• • Always replace the cap tightly after using and protect bottle from moisture .
Manufactured for and Distributed by : Lukare Medical , LLC .
Scotch Plains , NJ 07076 Part No . : LUK L 012 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 55792 - 002 - 01 Betaine Anhydrous for Oral Solution 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder per scoopful 180 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ]
