1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of the following serious infections due to susceptible organisms .
1 . 1 Respiratory Tract Infections Respiratory tract infections due to S . pneumoniae , Klebsiella species , H . influenzae , S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , and group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered to be the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin for Injection is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of Cefazolin for Injection in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available at present .
1 . 2 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli , and Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and some strains of enterobacter and enterococci .
1 . 3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Skin and skin structure infections due to S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , group A beta - hemolytic streptococci , and other strains of streptococci .
1 . 4 Biliary Tract Infections Biliary infections due to E . coli , various strains of streptococci , P . mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and S . aureus .
1 . 5 Bone and Joint Infections Bone and joint infections due to S . aureus .
1 . 6 Genital Infections Genital infections ( i . e . , prostatitis , epididymitis ) due to E . coli , P . mirabilis , Klebsiella species , and some strains of enterococci .
1 . 7 Septicemia Septicemia due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , P . mirabilis , E . coli , and Klebsiella species .
1 . 8 Endocarditis Endocarditis due to S . aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) and group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
1 . 9 Perioperative Prophylaxis The prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for Injection preoperatively , intraoperatively , and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy , and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those older than 70 years , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice , or common duct bile stones ) .
The perioperative use of Cefazolin for Injection may also be effective in surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
The prophylactic administration of cefazolin should usually be discontinued within a 24 hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for cultures should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated in the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms : • Respiratory tract infections .
( 1 . 1 ) • Urinary tract infections .
( 1 . 2 ) • Skin and skin structure infections .
( 1 . 3 ) • Biliary tract infections .
( 1 . 4 ) • Bone and joint infections .
( 1 . 5 ) • Genital infections .
( 1 . 6 ) • Septicemia .
( 1 . 7 ) • Endocarditis .
( 1 . 8 ) • Perioperative prophylaxis .
( 1 . 9 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Adult Population The recommended adult dosages are outlined in TABLE 1 .
Cefazolin for Injection should be administered intravenously or intramuscularly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Perioperative Prophylactic Use To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended doses are : • 1 gram intravenous or intramuscular administered 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery .
• For lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) , 500 mg to 1 gram intravenous or intramuscular during surgery ( administration modified depending on the duration of the operative procedure ) .
• 500 mg to 1 gram intravenous or intramuscular every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively .
It is important that ( i ) the preoperative dose be given just prior ( 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour ) to the start of surgery so that adequate antibiotic levels are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( ii ) Cefazolin for Injection be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient levels of the antibiotic drug at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
2 . 3 Patients with Renal Impairment Cefazolin for Injection may be used in patients with reduced renal function with the following dosage adjustments : Patients with a creatinine clearance of 55 mL / min .
or greater or a serum creatinine of 1 . 5 mg % or less can be given full doses .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 35 to 54 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 1 . 6 to 3 . 0 mg % can also be given full doses but dosage should be restricted to at least 8 hour intervals .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 11 to 34 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 3 . 1 to 4 . 5 mg % should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 12 hours .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 10 mL / min .
or less or serum creatinine of 4 . 6 mg % or greater should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 18 to 24 hours .
All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection .
Patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis : [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Pediatric Population In pediatric patients , a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg per kg ( approximately 10 to 20 mg per pound ) of body weight , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses , is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections .
Total daily dosage may be increased to 100 mg per kg ( 45 mg per pound ) of body weight for severe infections .
Since safety for use in premature infants and in neonates has not been established , the use of cefazolin for injection in these patients is not recommended .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] In pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 70 to 40 mL / min . )
, 60 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be sufficient .
In patients with moderate impairment ( creatinine clearance of 40 to 20 mL / min . )
, 25 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be adequate .
Pediatric patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 20 to 5 mL / min . )
may be given 10 percent of the normal daily dose every 24 hours .
All dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose .
2 . 5 Preparation of Parenteral Solution Parenteral drug products should be SHAKEN WELL when reconstituted , and inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration .
If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids , the drug solutions should be discarded .
When reconstituted or diluted according to the instructions below , Cefazolin for Injection is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Reconstituted solutions may range in color from pale yellow to yellow without a change in potency .
Single - Dose Vials For Intramuscular injection , Intravenous direct ( bolus ) injection or Intravenous infusion , reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection according to the following table .
SHAKE WELL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 6 Intramuscular Administration Reconstitute vials with Sterile Water for Injection according to the dilution table above .
Shake well until dissolved .
Cefazolin should be injected into a large muscle mass .
Pain on injection is infrequent with Cefazolin for Injection .
2 . 7 Intravenous Administration Direct ( bolus ) injection : Following reconstitution according to the above table , further dilute vials with approximately 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection .
Inject the solution slowly over 3 to 5 minutes , directly or through tubing for patients receiving parenteral fluids ( see list below ) .
Intermittent or continuous infusion : Dilute reconstituted Cefazolin for Injection in 50 to 100 mL of 1 of the following solutions : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % or 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP Invert Sugar 5 % or 10 % in Sterile Water for Injection Ringer ’ s Injection , USP 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP For intravenous or intramuscular use .
( 2 ) * In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CrCl Greater Than or Equal to 55 mL / min .
( 2 . 1 ) Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) * 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Single - dose vials : • 1 g Cefazolin for Injection • 1 g per vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefazolin for injection is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
• Cefazolin for injection is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions to Cefazolin , Cephalosporins , Penicillins , or Other Beta - lactams Before therapy with Cefazolin for Injection is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous hypersensitivity reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other drugs .
If this product is given to penicillin - sensitive patients , caution should be exercised because cross - hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibiotics has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to Cefazolin for Injection occurs , discontinue treatment with the drug .
Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require treatment with epinephrine and other emergency measures , including oxygen , intravenous fluids , intravenous antihistamines , corticosteroids , pressor amines , and airway management , as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment As with other β - lactam antibiotics , seizures may occur if inappropriately high doses are administered to patients with impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / min . )
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Clostridium difficile - associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) or pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis . ”
Cefazolin for Injection , as with all cephalosporins , should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
After the diagnosis of CDAD or pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an oral antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
5 . 4 Risk of Development of Drug - resistant Bacteria Prescribing cefazolin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
As with other antimicrobials , prolonged use of cefazolin for injection may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ' s condition is essential .
Should superinfection occur during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 5 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Urinary Glucose The administration of cefazolin may result in a false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine with Benedict ' s solution , Fehling ' s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets .
It is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( e . g . , CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Coombs ’ Test Positive direct Coombs ' tests have been reported during treatment with cefazolin .
In hematologic studies or in transfusion cross - matching procedures when antiglobulin tests are performed on the minor side or in Coombs ' testing of newborns whose mothers have received cephalosporin antibacterial drugs before parturition , it should be recognized that a positive Coombs ' test may be due to the drug .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions : Cross - hypersensitivity may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue the drug .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use in Patients with Renal Impairment : Dose adjustment required for patients with CrCl less than 55 mL / min .
( 5 . 2 ) • Clostridium difficile - associated Diarrhea : May range from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported : • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The following adverse reactions were reported from clinical trials : Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , anorexia , and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Allergic : Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic : Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic : Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed .
As with other cephalosporins , reports of hepatitis have been received .
Renal : As with other cephalosporins , reports of increased BUN and creatinine levels , as well as renal failure , have been received .
Local Reactions : Rare instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection .
Pain at the site of injection after intramuscular administration has occurred infrequently .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions : Genital and anal pruritus ( including vulvar pruritus , genital moniliasis , and vaginitis ) .
6 . 2 Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefazolin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibacterials : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , renal impairment , toxic nephropathy , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , hepatic impairment including cholestasis , and pancytopenia .
• Most Common Adverse Reactions : Gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) , and allergic reactions ( anaphylaxis , urticaria , skin rash ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Corp . at 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Probenecid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood levels .
• Probenecid : May decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood concentrations .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits at doses up to 25 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefazolin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery When cefazolin has been administered prior to caesarean section , drug levels in cord blood have been approximately one quarter to one third of maternal drug levels .
The drug appears to have no adverse effect on the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Cefazolin for Injection is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when Cefazolin for Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness for use in premature infants and neonates have not been established .
See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) for recommended dosage in pediatric patients older than 1 month .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 920 subjects who received cefazolin in clinical studies , 313 ( 34 % ) were 65 years and over , while 138 ( 15 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment When cefazolin for injection is administered to patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / min . )
, lower daily dosage is required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness for use in premature infants and neonates have not been established .
See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) for recommended dosage in pediatric patients older than 1 month .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal Impairment : Lower daily dosage of cefazolin for injection is required in patients with impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / min ) .
( 8 . 6 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 5 / 2019 11 DESCRIPTION Cefazolin for Injection , USP is a semi - synthetic cephalosporin for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of 3 - { [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] - methyl } - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cefazolin for Injection , USP is a sterile white or off - white powder or crystalline powder .
The sodium content is 48 mg ( 2 mEq sodium ion ) per 1 gram of cefazolin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 21 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic relationship for cefazolin has not been evaluated in patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After intramuscular administration of Cefazolin for Injection to normal volunteers , the mean serum concentrations were 37 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 3 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 500 mg dose , and 64 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 7 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 1 gram dose .
Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of Cefazolin for Injection to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for Cefazolin for Injection is approximately 1 . 8 hours following intravenous administration and approximately 2 hours following intramuscular administration .
In a study ( using normal volunteers ) of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) , Cefazolin for Injection produced a steady serum level at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that Cefazolin for Injection produces mean peak serum levels approximately equivalent to those seen in normal volunteers .
Bile levels in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum levels by up to 5 times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile levels of Cefazolin for Injection are considerably lower than serum levels ( < 1 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the level of Cefazolin for Injection becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of Cefazolin for Injection across the placenta .
Cefazolin for Injection is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin for Injection is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
Cefazolin for Injection achieves peak urine concentrations of approximately 2 , 400 mcg / mL and 4 , 000 mcg / mL respectively following 500 mg and 1 gram intramuscular doses .
In patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis ( 2 L / hr . )
, Cefazolin for Injection produced mean serum levels of approximately 10 and 30 mcg / mL after 24 hours ' instillation of a dialyzing solution containing 50 mg / L and 150 mg / L , respectively .
Mean peak levels were 29 mcg / mL ( range 13 to 44 mcg / mL ) with 50 mg / L ( 3 patients ) , and 72 mcg / mL ( range 26 to 142 mcg / mL ) with 150 mg / L ( 6 patients ) .
Intraperitoneal administration of Cefazolin for Injection is usually well tolerated .
Controlled studies on adult normal volunteers , receiving 1 gram 4 times a day for 10 days , monitoring CBC , SGOT , SGPT , bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase , BUN , creatinine , and urinalysis , indicated no clinically significant changes attributed to Cefazolin for Injection .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Resistance Predominant mechanisms of bacterial resistance to cephalosporins include the presence of extended - spectrum beta - lactamases and enzymatic hydrolysis .
Antimicrobial Activity Cefazolin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
• Gram - Positive Bacteria Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus agalactiae Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin .
• Gram - Negative Bacteria Escherichia coli Proteus mirabilis Most isolates of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri , Serratia spp . , and Pseudomonas spp .
are resistant to cefazolin .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of Cefazolin for Injection have not been performed .
HOW SUPPLIED Cefazolin for Injection , USP is supplied as a sterile white or off - white powder or crystalline powder .
Each vial contains cefazolin sodium equivalent to 1 gram of cefazolin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] As with other cephalosporins , cefazolin tends to darken depending on storage conditions ; within the stated recommendations , however , product potency is not adversely affected .
Before reconstitution protect from light and store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment and discontinuation of cefazolin .
Patients should report to their health care provider any previous allergic reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other similar antibacterials .
Patients should be advised that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics , which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterials .
If this occurs , patients should contact a physician as soon as possible .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including Cefazolin for Injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefazolin for Injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefazolin for Injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ATCC is a registered trademark of American Type Culture Collection .
Clinitest is a registered trademark of Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics .
Clinistix is a registered trademark of Bayer Healthcare LLC .
Manufactured by : Qilu Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
High Tech Zone Jinan , 250101 , China Manufactured for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , Florida , USA 33326 Code number : 34040001011 E Rev 05 / 19 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
