DESCRIPTION ENLON is a short and rapid - acting cholinergic drug .
Chemically , edrophonium chloride is ethyl ( m - hydroxyphenyl ) dimethylammonium chloride and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains , in a sterile solution , 10 mg edrophonium chloride compounded with 0 . 45 % phenol as a preservative , and 0 . 2 % sodium sulfite as an antioxidant , buffered with sodium citrate and citric acid , and pH adjusted to approximately 5 . 4 .
ENLON is intended for IV and IM use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS ENLON is an anticholinesterase drug .
Its pharmacologic action is due primarily to the inhibition or inactivation of acetylcholinesterase at sites of cholinergic transmission .
Its effect is manifest within 30 to 60 seconds after injection and lasts an average of 10 minutes .
INDICATIONS ENLON is recommended for the differential diagnosis of myasthenia gravis and as an adjunct in the evaluation of treatment requirements in this disease .
It may also be used for evaluating emergency treatment in myasthenic crises .
Because of its brief duration of action , it is not recommended for maintenance therapy in myasthenia gravis .
ENLON is also useful whenever a curare antagonist is needed to reverse the neuromuscular block produced by curare , tubocurarine , gallamine triethiodide or dimethyl - tubocurarine .
It is not effective against decamethonium bromide and succinylcholine chloride .
It may be used adjunctively in the treatment of respiratory depression caused by curare overdosage .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to anticholinesterase agents ; intestinal and urinary obstructions of mechanical type .
WARNINGS Whenever anticholinesterase drugs are used for testing , a syringe containing 1 mg of atropine sulfate should be immediately available to be given in aliquots intravenously to counteract severe cholinergic reactions which may occur in the hypersensitive individual , whether he is normal or myasthenic .
ENLON should be used with caution in patients with bronchial asthma or cardiac dysrhythmias .
The transient bradycardia which sometimes occurs can be relieved by atropine sulfate .
Isolated instances of cardiac and respiratory arrest following administration of ENLON have been reported .
It is postulated that these are vagotonic effects .
Contains sodium sulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Usage in Pregnancy The safety of ENLON during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of ENLON in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ’ s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTIONS Patients may develop “ anticholinesterase insensitivity ” for brief or prolonged periods .
During these periods the patients should be carefully monitored and may need respiratory assistance .
Dosages of anticholinesterase drugs should be reduced or withheld until patients again become sensitive to them .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Careful observation should be made for severe cholinergic reactions in the hyperreactive individual .
The myasthenic patient in crisis who is being tested with ENLON should be observed for bradycardia or cardiac standstill and cholinergic reactions if an overdose is given .
The following reactions common to anticholinesterase agents may occur , although not all of these reactions have been reported with the administration of ENLON , probably because of its short duration of action and limited indications : Eye : Increased lacrimation , pupillary constriction , spasm of accommodation , diplopia , conjunctival hyperemia .
CNS : Convulsions , dysarthria , dysphonia , dysphagia .
Respiratory : Increased tracheobronchial secretions , laryngospasm , bronchiolar constriction , paralysis of muscles of respiration , central respiratory paralysis .
Cardiac : Arrhythmias ( especially bradycardia ) , fall in cardiac output leading to hypotension .
G . I . : Increased salivary , gastric and intestinal secretion , nausea , vomiting , increased peristalsis , diarrhea , abdominal cramps .
Skeletal Muscle : Weakness , fasciculations .
Miscellaneous : Increased urinary frequency and incontinence , diaphoresis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ENLON Test in the Differential Diagnosis of Myasthenia Gravis 1 - 8 Intravenous Dosage ( Adults ) A tuberculin syringe containing 1 mL ( 10 mg ) of ENLON is prepared with an intravenous needle , and 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) is injected intravenously within 15 to 30 seconds .
The needle is left in situ .
Only if no reaction occurs after 45 seconds is the remaining 0 . 8 mL ( 8 mg ) injected .
If a cholinergic reaction ( muscarinic side effects , skeletal muscle fasciculations and increased muscle weakness ) occurs after injection of 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) , the test is discontinued and atropine sulfate , 0 . 4 mg to 0 . 5 mg , is administered intravenously .
After one - half hour the test may be repeated .
Intramuscular Dosage ( Adults ) In adults with inaccessible veins , dosage for intramuscular injection is 1 mL ( 10 mg ) of ENLON .
Subjects who demonstrate hyperreactivity to this injection ( cholinergic reaction ) , should be retested after one - half hour with 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) of ENLON intramuscularly to rule out false - negative reactions .
Dosage ( Children ) The intravenous testing dose of ENLON in children weighing up to 75 lbs is 0 . 1 mL ( 1 mg ) ; above this weight , the dose is 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) .
If there is no response after 45 seconds , it may be titrated up to 0 . 5 mL ( 5 mg ) in children under 75 lbs , given in increments of 0 . 1 mL ( 1 mg ) every 30 to 45 seconds and up to 1 mL ( 10 mg ) in heavier children .
In infants , the recommended dose is 0 . 05 mL ( 0 . 5 mg ) .
Because of technical difficulty with intravenous injection in children , the intramuscular route may be used .
In children weighing up to 75 lbs , 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) is injected intramuscularly .
In children weighing more than 75 lbs , 0 . 5 mL ( 5 mg ) is injected intramuscularly .
All signs which would appear with the intravenous test appears with the intramuscular test except that there is a delay of two to ten minutes before a reaction is noted .
ENLON Test for Evaluation of Treatment Requirements in Myasthenia Gravis The recommended dose is 0 . 1 mL to 0 . 2 mL ( 1 mg to 2 mg ) of ENLON , administered intravenously one hour after oral intake of the drug being used in treatment . 1 - 5 Response will be myasthenic in the undertreated patient , adequate in the controlled patient , and cholinergic in the overtreated patient .
Responses to ENLON in myasthenic and nonmyasthenic individuals are summarized in the following chart .
Myasthenic [ 1 ] Adequate [ 2 ] Cholinergic [ 3 ] Muscle Strength ( ptosis , diplopia dysphonia , dysphagia , dysarthria , respiration , limb strength ) Increased No change Decreased Fasciculations ( orbicularis oculi , facial muscles , limb muscles ) Absent Present or absent Present or absent Side reactions ( lacrimation diaphoresis , salivation , abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) Absent Minimal Severe [ 1 ] Myasthenic Response - occurs in untreated myasthenics and may serve to establish diagnosis ; in patients under treatment , indicates that therapy is inadequate .
[ 2 ] Adequate Response - observed in treated patients when therapy is stabilized : a typical response in normal individuals .
In addition to this response in non - myasthenics , the phenomenon of forced lid closure is often observed in psychoneurotics .
[ 3 ] Cholinergic Response - seen in myasthenics who have been overtreated with anticholinesterase drugs .
ENLON Test in Crisis The term crisis is applied to the myasthenic whenever severe respiratory distress with objective ventilatory inadequacy occurs and the response to medication is not predictable .
This state may be secondary to a sudden increase in severity of myasthenia gravis ( myasthenic crisis ) , or to overtreatment with anticholinesterase drugs ( cholinergic crisis ) .
When a patient is apneic , controlled ventilation must be secured immediately in order to avoid cardiac arrest and irreversible central nervous system damage .
No attempt is made to test with ENLON until respiratory exchange is adequate .
Dosage used at this time is most important : If the patient is cholinergic , ENLON will cause increased oropharyngeal secretions and further weakness in the muscles of respiration .
If the crisis is myasthenic , the test clearly improves respiration and the patient can be treated with longer - acting intravenous anticholinesterase medication .
When the test is performed , there should not be more than 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) ENLON in the syringe .
An intravenous dose of 0 . 1 mL ( 1 mg ) is given initially .
The patient ’ s heart action is carefully observed .
If , after an interval of one minute , this dose does not further impair the patient , the remaining 0 . 1 mL ( 1 mg ) can be injected .
If no clear improvement of respiration occurs after 0 . 2 mL ( 2 mg ) dose , it is usually wisest to discontinue all anticholinesterase drug therapy and secure controlled ventilation by tracheostomy with assisted respiration . 5 For Use as a Curare Antagonist ENLON should be administered by intravenous injection in 1 mL ( 10 mg ) doses given slowly over a period of 30 to 45 seconds so that the onset of cholinergic reaction can be detected .
This dosage may be repeated whenever necessary .
The maximal dose for any one patient should be 4 mL ( 40 mg ) .
Because of its brief effect , ENLON should not be given prior to the administration of curare , tubocurarine , gallamine triethiodide or dimethyl - tubocurarine : it should be used at the time when its effect is needed .
When given to counteract curare overdosage , the effect of each dose on the respiration should be carefully observed before it is repeated , and assisted ventilation should always be employed .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Care should be given when administering this drug to patients with symptoms of myasthenic weakness who are also on anticholinesterase drugs .
Since symptoms of anticholinesterase overdose ( cholinergic crisis ) may mimic underdosage ( myasthenic weakness ) , their condition may be worsened by the use of this drug .
( See OVERDOSAGE section for treatment . )
OVERDOSAGE With drugs of this type , muscarine - like symptoms ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , sweating , increased bronchial and salivary secretions and bradycardia ) often appear with overdosage ( cholinergic crisis ) .
An important complication that can arise is obstruction of the airway by bronchial secretions .
These may be managed with suction ( especially if tracheostomy has been performed ) and by the use of atropine .
Many experts have advocated a wide range of dosages of atropine ( for ENLON , see atropine dosage below ) , but if there are copious secretions , up to 1 . 2 mg intravenously may be given initially and repeated every 20 minutes until secretions are controlled .
Signs of atropine overdosage such as dry mouth , flush and tachycardia should be avoided as tenacious secretions and bronchial plugs may form .
A total dose of atropine of 5 to 10 mg or even more may be required .
The following steps should be taken in the management of overdosage of ENLON : • Adequate respiratory exchange should be maintained by assuring an open airway and by the use of assisted respiration augmented by oxygen .
• Cardiac function should be monitored until complete stabilization has been achieved • Atropine sulfate in doses of 0 . 4 to 0 . 5 mg should be administered intravenously .
This may be repeated every 3 to 10 minutes .
Because of the short duration of action of ENLON the total dose required will seldom exceed 2 mg .
• Pralidoxime chloride ( a cholinesterase reactivator ) may be given intravenously at the rate of 50 to 100 mg per minute ; usually the total dose does not exceed 1000 mg .
Extremecaution should be exercised in the use of pralidoxime chloride when the cholinergic symptoms are induced by double - bond phosphorous anticholinesterase drugs .
9 • If convulsions occur or shock is present , appropriate measures should be instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED ENLON ( edrophonium chloride injection , USP ) : NDC 10019 - 873 - 15 15 mL vials ENLON ( edrophonium chloride injection , USP ) should be stored at controlled room temperature 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) .
REFERENCES • Osserman KE , Kaplan LI .
JAMA 1952 ; 150 : 265 .
• Osserman KE , Kaplan LI . , Besson G . J Mt Sinai Hosp 1953 ; 20 : 165 .
• Osserman KE , Kaplan LI .
Arch Neurol Psychiatr 1953 ; 70 : 385 .
• Osserman KE , Teng P . JAMA 1956 ; 160 : 153 .
• Osserman KE , Genkins G . Ann Ny Acad Sci 1966 ; 135 : 312 .
• Tether JE , Second International Symposium Proceedings , Myasthenia Gravis , 1961 , p . 444 .
• Tether JE , in HF Conn : Current Therapy 1960 , Philadelphia , WB Saunders Co , p . 551 .
• Tether JE , in HF Conn : Current Therapy 1965 , Philadelphia , WB Saunders Co , p . 556 .
• Grob D . Johns RJ .
JAMA 1958 ; 166 : 1855 .
Baxter and Enlon are trademarks of Baxter International , Inc .
Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA by : Taylor Pharmaceuticals Decatur , IL 62525 For Product Inquiry 1 800 ANA DRUG ( 1 - 800 - 262 - 3784 ) MLT - 46 / 1 . 0
