SAGENT ® Rx only WARNING Serious and / or life - threatening peripheral ischemia has been associated with the coadministration of DIHYDROERGOTAMINE with potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors including protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics .
Because CYP 3A4 inhibition elevates the serum levels of DIHYDROERGOTAMINE , the risk for vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities is increased .
Hence , concomitant use of these medications is contraindicated .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS section . )
DESCRIPTION Dihydroergotamine mesylate is ergotamine hydrogenated in the 9 , 10 position as the mesylate salt .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate is known chemically as ergotaman - 3 ′ , 6 ′ , 18 - trione , 9 , 10 - dihydro - 12 ′ - hydroxy - 2 ′ - methyl - 5 ′ - ( phenylmethyl ) - , ( 5 ′ α ) - , monomethanesulfonate .
Its molecular weight is 679 . 80 and its empirical formula is C33H37N5O5 • CH4O3S .
The chemical structure is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dihydroergotamine mesylate C33H37N5O5 • CH4O3S Mol .
wt .
679 . 80 Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is a clear , colorless solution supplied in sterile single - dose vials for intravenous , intramuscular , or subcutaneous administration .
Each 1 mL contains 1 mg Dihydroergotamine Mesylate , USP ; Alcohol , USP 6 . 1 % by volume ; Glycerin , USP 15 % by weight ; Water for Injection , USP ; Methanesulfonic Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide for pH adjustment .
pH range is 3 . 4 to 4 . 9 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Dihydroergotamine binds with high affinity to 5 - HT1Dα and 5 - HT1Dβ receptors .
It also binds with high affinity to serotonin 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT2A , and 5 - HT2C receptors , noradrenaline α2A , α2B and α1 receptors , and dopamine D2L and D3 receptors .
The therapeutic activity of dihydroergotamine in migraine is generally attributed to the agonist effect at 5 - HT1D receptors .
Two current theories have been proposed to explain the efficacy of 5 - HT1D receptor agonists in migraine .
One theory suggests that activation of 5 - HT1D receptors located on intracranial blood vessels , including those on arterio - venous anastomoses , leads to vasoconstriction , which correlates with the relief of migraine headache .
The alternative hypothesis suggests that activation of 5 - HT1D receptors on sensory nerve endings of the trigeminal system results in the inhibition of pro - inflammatory neuropeptide release .
In addition , dihydroergotamine possesses oxytocic properties .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Absolute bioavailability for the subcutaneous and intramuscular route have not been determined , however , no difference was observed in dihydroergotamine bioavailability from intramuscular and subcutaneous doses .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate is poorly bioavailable following oral administration .
Distribution Dihydroergotamine mesylate is 93 % plasma protein bound .
The apparent steady - state volume of distribution is approximately 800 liters .
Metabolism Four dihydroergotamine mesylate metabolites have been identified in human plasma following oral administration .
The major metabolite , 8 ′ - β - hydroxydihydroergotamine , exhibits affinity equivalent to its parent for adrenergic and 5 - HT receptors and demonstrates equivalent potency in several venoconstrictor activity models , in vivo and in vitro .
The other metabolites , i . e . , dihydrolysergic acid , dihydrolysergic amide , and a metabolite formed by oxidative opening of the proline ring are of minor importance .
Following nasal administration , total metabolites represent only 20 % to 30 % of plasma AUC .
Quantitative pharmacokinetic characterization of the four metabolites has not been performed .
Excretion The major excretory route of dihydroergotamine is via the bile in the feces .
The total body clearance is 1 . 5 L / min which reflects mainly hepatic clearance .
Only 6 % to 7 % of unchanged dihydroergotamine is excreted in the urine after intramuscular injection .
The renal clearance ( 0 . 1 L / min ) is unaffected by the route of dihydroergotamine administration .
The decline of plasma dihydroergotamine after intramuscular or intravenous administration is multi - exponential with a terminal half - life of about 9 hours .
Subpopulations No studies have been conducted on the effect of renal or hepatic impairment , gender , race , or ethnicity on dihydroergotamine pharmacokinetics .
dihydroergotamine mesylate is contraindicated in patients with severely impaired hepatic or renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Interactions Pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported in patients treated orally with other ergot alkaloids ( e . g . , increased levels of ergotamine ) and macrolide antibiotics , principally troleandomycin , presumably due to inhibition of cytochrome P450 3 A metabolism of the alkaloids by troleandomycin .
Dihydroergotamine has also been shown to be an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3 A catalyzed reactions and rare reports of ergotism have been obtained from patients treated with dihydroergotamine and macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , erythromycin ) , and in patients treated with dihydroergotamine and protease inhibitors ( e . g . ritonavir ) , presumably due to inhibition of cytochrome P450 3 A metabolism of ergotamine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine headaches with or without aura and the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There have been a few reports of serious adverse events associated with the coadministration of dihydroergotamine and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors , such as protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics , resulting in vasospasm that led to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities .
The use of potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors ( ritonavir , nelfinavir , indinavir , erythromycin , clarithromycin , troleandomycin , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) with dihydroergotamine is , therefore contraindicated ( see WARNINGS : CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ) .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be given to patients with ischemic heart disease ( angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) or to patients who have clinical symptoms or findings consistent with coronary artery vasospasm including Prinzmetal ' s variant angina .
( See WARNINGS . )
Because dihydroergotamine mesylate may increase blood pressure , it should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate , 5 - HT1 agonists ( e . g . , sumatriptan ) , ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications or methysergide should not be used within 24 hours of each other .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
In addition to those conditions mentioned above , dihydroergotamine mesylate is also contraindicated in patients with known peripheral arterial disease , sepsis , following vascular surgery and severely impaired hepatic or renal function .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Dihydroergotamine possesses oxytocic properties and , therefore , should not be administered during pregnancy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
There are no adequate studies of dihydroergotamine in human pregnancy , but developmental toxicity has been demonstrated in experimental animals .
In embryo - fetal development studies of dihydroergotamine mesylate nasal spray , intranasal administration to pregnant rats throughout the period of organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal body weights and / or skeletal ossification at doses of 0 . 16 mg / day ( associated with maternal plasma dihydroergotamine exposures [ AUC ] approximately 0 . 4 to 1 . 2 times the exposures in humans receiving the MRDD of 4 mg ) or greater .
A no effect level for embryo - fetal toxicity was not established in rats .
Delayed skeletal ossification was also noted in rabbit fetuses following intranasal administration of 3 . 6 mg / day ( maternal exposures approximately 7 times human exposures at the MRDD ) during organogenesis .
A no effect level was seen at 1 . 2 mg / day ( maternal exposures approximately 2 . 5 times human exposures at the MRDD ) .
When dihydroergotamine mesylate nasal spray was administered intranasally to female rats during pregnancy and lactation , decreased body weights and impaired reproductive function ( decreased mating indices ) were observed in the offspring at doses of 0 . 16 mg / day or greater .
A no effect level was not established .
Effects on development occurred at doses below those that produced evidence of significant maternal toxicity in these studies .
Dihydroergotamine - induced intrauterine growth retardation has been attributed to reduced uteroplacental blood flow resulting from prolonged vasoconstriction of the uterine vessels and / or increased myometrial tone .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate is contraindicated in patients who have previously shown hypersensitivity to ergot alkaloids .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be used by nursing mothers .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be used with peripheral and central vasoconstrictors because the combination may result in additive or synergistic elevation of blood pressure .
WARNINGS Dihydroergotamine mesylate should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established .
CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors ) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of dihydroergotamine and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors , such as protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics , resulting in vasospasm that led to cerebral ischemia and / or and ischemia of the extremities .
The use of potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors with dihydroergotamine should therefore be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include : anti - fungals ketoconazole and itraconazole , the protease inhibitors ritonavir , nelfinavir , and indinavir , and macrolide antibiotics erythromycin , clarithromycin , and troleandomycin .
Other less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution .
Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir , nefazodone , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , zileuton , and clotrimazole .
These lists are not exhaustive , and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with dihydroergotamine .
Fibrotic Complications There have been reports of pleural and retroperitoneal fibrosis in patients following prolonged daily use of injectable dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Rarely , prolonged daily use of other ergot alkaloid drugs has been associated with cardiac valvular fibrosis .
Rare cases have also been reported in association with the use of injectable dihydroergotamine mesylate ; however , in those cases , patients also received drugs known to be associated with cardiac valvular fibrosis .
Administration of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , should not exceed the dosing guidelines and should not be used for chronic daily administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be used by patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
It is strongly recommended that dihydroergotamine mesylate not be given to patients in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , females who are surgically or physiologically postmenopausal , or males who are over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ' s medical history or electrocardiographic investigations reveal findings indicative of or consistent with coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be administered .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of dihydroergotamine mesylate take place in the setting of a physician ' s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following dihydroergotamine mesylate , in those patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of dihydroergotamine mesylate and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use dihydroergotamine mesylate .
The systematic approach described above is currently recommended as a method to identify patients in whom dihydroergotamine mesylate may be used to treat migraine headaches with an acceptable margin of cardiovascular safety .
Cardiac Events and Fatalities The potential for adverse cardiac events exists .
Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm , and death have been reported to have occurred following the administration of dihydroergotamine mesylate injection .
Considering the extent of use of dihydroergotamine mesylate in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
Drug - Associated Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with dihydroergotamine mesylate ; and some have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the dihydroergotamine mesylate having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , stroke , hemorrhage , transient ischemic attack ) .
Other Vasospasm Related Events Dihydroergotamine mesylate , like other ergot alkaloids , may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm .
Myocardial , peripheral vascular , and colonic ischemia have been reported with dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate associated vasospastic phenomena may also cause muscle pains , numbness , coldness , pallor , and cyanosis of the digits .
In patients with compromised circulation , persistent vasospasm may result in gangrene or death .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate should be discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of vasoconstriction develop .
Increase In Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure has been reported on rare occasions in patients with and without a history of hypertension treated with dihydroergotamine mesylate injection .
dihydroergotamine mesylate is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
An 18 % increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure was seen following dosing with another 5 - HT1 agonist in a study evaluating subjects undergoing cardiac catheterization .
PRECAUTIONS General Dihydroergotamine mesylate may cause coronary artery vasospasm ; patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following its administration should , therefore , be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to variant angina before receiving additional doses .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud ' s syndrome following the use of any 5 - HT agonist are candidates for further evaluation .
( See WARNINGS . )
Fibrotic Complications See WARNINGS : Fibrotic Complications Information for Patients The text of a patient information sheet is printed at the end of this insert .
To assure safe and effective use of dihydroergotamine mesylate , the information and instructions provided in the patient information sheet should be discussed with patients .
Patients should be advised to report to the physician immediately any of the following : numbness or tingling in the fingers and toes , muscle pain in the arms and legs , weakness in the legs , pain in the chest , temporary speeding or slowing of the heart rate , swelling , or itching .
Prior to the initial use of the product by a patient , the prescriber should take steps to ensure that the patient understands how to use the product as provided .
( See Patient Information Sheet and product packaging . )
Administration of dihydroergotamine mesylate , should not exceed the dosing guidelines and should not be used for chronic daily administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions Vasoconstrictors Dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be used with peripheral vasoconstrictors because the combination may cause synergistic elevation of blood pressure .
Sumatriptan Sumatriptan has been reported to cause coronary artery vasospasm , and its effect could be additive with dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Sumatriptan and dihydroergotamine mesylate should not be taken within 24 hours of each other .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Beta Blockers Although the results of a clinical study did not indicate a safety problem associated with the administration of dihydroergotamine mesylate to subjects already receiving propranolol , there have been reports that propranolol may potentiate the vasoconstrictive action of ergotamine by blocking the vasodilating property of epinephrine .
Nicotine Nicotine may provoke vasoconstriction in some patients , predisposing to a greater ischemic response to ergot therapy .
CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors ) See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .
SSRI ' s Weakness , hyperreflexia , and incoordination have been reported rarely when 5 - HT1 agonists have been co - administered with SSRI ' s ( e . g . , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , paroxetine , sertraline ) .
There have been no reported cases from spontaneous reports of drug interaction between SSRI ' s and dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Oral Contraceptives The effect of oral contraceptives on the pharmacokinetics of dihydroergotamine mesylate has not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Assessment of the carcinogenic potential of dihydroergotamine mesylate in mice and rats is ongoing .
Mutagenesis Dihydroergotamine mesylate was clastogenic in two in vitro chromosomal aberration assays , the V79 Chinese hamster cell assay with metabolic activation and the cultured human peripheral blood lymphocyte assay .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential when dihydroergotamine mesylate was tested in the presence or absence of metabolic activation in two gene mutation assays ( the Ames test and the in vitro mammalian Chinese hamster V79 / HGPRT assay ) and in an assay for DNA damage ( the rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis test ) .
Dihydroergotamine was not clastogenic in the in vivo mouse and hamster micronucleus tests .
Impairment of Fertility Impairment of fertility was not evaluated for dihydroergotamine mesylate .
There was no evidence of impairment of fertility in rats given intranasal doses of Migranal ® Nasal Spray up to 1 . 6 mg / day ( associated with mean plasma dihydroergotamine mesylate exposures [ AUC ] approximately 9 to 11 times those in humans receiving the MRDD of 4 mg ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Nursing Mothers Ergot drugs are known to inhibit prolactin .
It is likely that dihydroergotamine mesylate is excreted in human milk , but there are no data on the concentration of dihydroergotamine in human milk .
It is known that ergotamine is excreted in breast milk and may cause vomiting , diarrhea , weak pulse , and unstable blood pressure in nursing infants .
Because of the potential for these serious adverse events in nursing infants exposed to dihydroergotamine mesylate , nursing should not be undertaken with the use of dihydroergotamine mesylate .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events , including some that have been fatal , have occurred following use of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , but are extremely rare .
Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . )
Fibrotic complications have been reported in association with long term use of injectable dihydroergotamine mesylate ( see WARNINGS : Fibrotic Complications ) .
Post - introduction Reports The following events derived from postmarketing experience have been occasionally reported in patients receiving dihydroergotamine mesylate : vasospasm , paraesthesia , hypertension , dizziness , anxiety , dyspnea , headache , flushing , diarrhea , rash , increased sweating , and pleural and retroperitoneal fibrosis after long - term use of dihydroergotamine .
Extremely rare cases of myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported .
A causal relationship has not been established .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate is not recommended for prolonged daily use .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 625 - 1618 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Currently available data have not demonstrated drug abuse or psychological dependence with dihydroergotamine .
However , cases of drug abuse and psychological dependence in patients on other forms of ergot therapy have been reported .
Thus , due to the chronicity of vascular headaches , it is imperative that patients be advised not to exceed recommended dosages .
OVERDOSAGE To date , there have been no reports of acute overdosage with this drug .
Due to the risk of vascular spasm , exceeding the recommended dosages of dihydroergotamine mesylate is to be avoided .
Excessive doses of dihydroergotamine may result in peripheral signs and symptoms of ergotism .
Treatment includes discontinuance of the drug , local application of warmth to the affected area , the administration of vasodilators , and nursing care to prevent tissue damage .
In general , the symptoms of an acute dihydroergotamine mesylate overdose are similar to those of an ergotamine overdose , although there is less pronounced nausea and vomiting with dihydroergotamine mesylate .
The symptoms of an ergotamine overdose include the following : numbness , tingling , pain , and cyanosis of the extremities associated with diminished or absent peripheral pulses ; respiratory depression ; an increase and / or decrease in blood pressure , usually in that order ; confusion , delirium , convulsions , and coma ; and / or some degree of nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain .
In laboratory animals , significant lethality occurs when dihydroergotamine is given at I . V . doses of 44 mg / kg in mice , 130 mg / kg in rats , and 37 mg / kg in rabbits .
Up - to - date information about the treatment of overdosage can often be obtained from a certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified Poison Control Centers are listed in the Physician ' s Desk Reference Book ( PDR ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dihydroergotamine mesylate injection should be administered in a dose of 1 mL intravenously , intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
The dose can be repeated , as needed , at 1 hour intervals to a total dose of 3 mL for intramuscular or subcutaneous delivery or 2 mL for intravenous delivery in a 24 hour period .
The total weekly dosage should not exceed 6 mL .
Dihydroergotamine mesylate injection , should not be used for chronic daily administration .
HOW SUPPLIED Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is supplied as follows : Dihydroergotamine Mesylate NDC Injection , USP ( 1 mg per mL ) Package Factor 25021 - 609 - 01 1 mg per mL Single - Dose Vial 5 vials per carton 25021 - 609 - 02 1 mg per mL Single - Dose Vial 10 vials per carton Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is available as a clear , colorless , sterile solution containing 1 mg dihydroergotamine mesylate per mL .
Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Do not refrigerate .
Do not freeze .
To assure constant potency : Protect from light and heat .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Administer only if clear and colorless .
Discard unused portion .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners .
SAGENT ® Mfd .
for SAGENT Pharmaceuticals Schaumburg , IL 60195 ( USA ) Made in India © 2018 Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
May 2018 SAGENT Pharmaceuticals ® INSTRUCTION FOR PATIENTS ON SUBCUTANEOUS SELF - INJECTION Information for the Patient Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP Before self - injecting Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP by subcutaneous administration , you will need to obtain professional instruction on how to properly administer your medication .
Below are some of the steps you should follow carefully .
Read this leaflet completely before using this medication .
This leaflet does not contain all of the information on Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP .
Your pharmacist and / or health care provider can provide more detailed information .
Purpose of your Medication Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is intended to treat an active migraine headache .
Do not try to use it to prevent a headache if you have no symptoms .
Do not use it to treat common tension headache or a headache that is not at all typical of your usual migraine headache .
Administration of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , should not exceed the dosing guidelines and should not be used for chronic daily administration .
There have been reports of fibrosis ( stiffening ) in the lung or kidney areas in patients following prolonged daily use of injectable dihydroergotamine mesylate .
Rarely , prolonged daily use of other ergot alkaloid drugs ( the class of drugs to which Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP belongs ) has been associated with heart valvular fibrosis .
Rare cases have also been reported in association with the use of injectable dihydroergotamine mesylate ; however , in those cases , patients also received drugs known to be associated with heart valvular fibrosis .
Do not use Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP if you : • are pregnant or nursing .
• have any disease affecting your heart , arteries , or circulation .
• are taking certain anti - HIV medications ( protease inhibitors ) .
• are taking a macrolide antibiotic such as troleandomycin , clarithromycin or erythromycin .
Important questions to consider before using Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP Please answer the following questions before you use your Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP .
If you answer YES to any of these questions or are unsure of the answer , you should talk to your doctor before using Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP .
• Do you have high blood pressure ?
• Do you have chest pain , shortness of breath , heart disease , or have you had any surgery on your heart arteries ?
• Do you have risk factors for heart disease ( such as high blood pressure , high cholesterol , obesity , diabetes , smoking , strong family history of heart disease , or you are postmenopausal or a male over 40 ) ?
• Do you have any problems with blood circulation in your arms or legs , fingers , or toes ?
• Are you pregnant ?
Do you think you might be pregnant ?
Are you trying to become pregnant ?
Are you sexually active and not using birth control ?
Are you breast feeding ?
• Have you ever had to stop taking this or any other medication because of an allergy or bad reaction ?
• Are you taking any other migraine medications , erythromycin or other antibiotics , or medications for blood pressure prescribed by your doctor , or other medicines obtained from your drugstore without a doctor ' s prescription ?
• Do you smoke ?
• Have you had , or do you have , any disease of the liver or kidney ?
• Is this headache different from your usual migraine attacks ?
• Are you using Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , nasal spray or other dihydroergotamine mesylate containing drugs on a daily basis ?
• Are you taking a protease inhibitor for HIV therapy ?
• Are you taking a macrolide class of antibiotic ?
Serious or potentially life - threatening reductions in blood flow to the brain or extremities have been reported rarely due to interactions between dihydroergotamine mesylate and protease inhibitors or macrolide antibiotics .
REMEMBER TO TELL YOUR DOCTOR IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS BEFORE YOU USE DIHYDROERGOTAMINE MESYLATE INJECTION , USP Side Effects To Watch Out For Although the following reactions rarely occur , they can be serious and should be reported to your physician immediately : • Numbness or tingling in your fingers and toes .
• Pain , tightness , or discomfort in your chest .
• Muscle pain or cramps in your arms and legs .
• Weakness in your legs .
• Temporary speeding or slowing of your heart rate .
• Swelling or itching .
Dosage Your doctor will have told you what dose to use for each migraine attack .
Should you get another migraine attack in the same day as the attack you treated , you must not treat it with Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP unless at least 6 hours have elapsed since your last injection .
No more than 6 mL of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP should be injected during a one - week period .
Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is not intended to be used on a prolonged daily basis .
Learn what to do in case of an Overdose If you have used more medication than you have been instructed , contact your doctor , hospital emergency department , or nearest poison control center immediately .
How to use the Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP • Use available training materials .
• Read and follow the instructions in the patient instruction booklet which is provided with the Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP package before attempting to use the product .
• If there are any questions concerning the use of your Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
• Preparing for the Injection • Carefully examine the glass vial of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP for any cracks or breaks , and the liquid for discoloration , cloudiness , or particles .
If any of these defects are present , use a new vial , make certain it is intact , and return the defective vial to your doctor or pharmacy .
Once you have punctured the stopper , if it is not used within an hour , it should be thrown away .
• Locating an Injection Site • Administer your subcutaneous injection in the middle of your thigh , well above the knee .
• Drawing the Medication into the Syringe • A . Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
• B . Check the dose of your medication .
• C . Hold vial in one hand and flip off the vial cap with the other hand to expose the rubber stopper .
• D . Clean the rubber stopper with an alcohol wipe using the other hand and let it dry for 10 seconds .
• E . Insert the needle into the center of the vial ' s rubber stopper .
• F . Push the plunger to discharge the air into the vial .
This makes it easier to withdraw the medication from the vial .
• G . Turn the vial upside down and hold it in one hand .
Make sure the top of the needle is in the fluid .
• H . Draw up the medication by pulling back the plunger slowly and steadily until you reach your dose .
• I . Check the syringe for air bubbles .
Hold it with the needle pointing upward .
If there are air bubbles , tap your finger against the barrel of the syringe to get the bubbles to the top .
Slowly and carefully push the plunger up so that the bubbles are pushed out through the needle and you see a drop of medication .
• J .
When there are no air bubbles , check the dose of the medication .
If the dose is incorrect , repeat steps E , F , G , H , I and J until you draw up the right dose .
• Preparing the Injection Site • With a new alcohol wipe , clean the selected injection site thoroughly with a firm , circular motion from inside to outside .
Wait for the injection site to dry before injecting .
• Administering the Injection • Hold the syringe / needle in one hand .
• With the other hand , firmly grasp about a 1 - inch fold of skin at the injection site .
• Push the needle shaft , bevel side up , all the way into the fold of skin at a 45 ° to 90 ° angle , then release the fold of skin .
• While still holding the syringe with one hand , use the other hand to draw back slightly on the plunger .
• If you do not see any blood coming back into the syringe , inject the medication by pushing down on the plunger .
If you do see blood in the syringe , that means the needle has penetrated a vein .
If this happens , pull the needle / syringe out of the skin slightly and draw back on the plunger again .
• If no blood is seen this time , inject the medication .
• Use the injecting hand to pull the needle out of your skin quickly at the same angle you injected it .
Immediately press the alcohol wipe on the injection site and rub .
Check the expiration date printed on the vial containing medication .
If the expiration date has passed , do not use it .
Answers to Patients ' Questions About Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP What if I need help in using my Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP ?
If you have any questions or if you need help in opening , putting together , or using Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , speak to your doctor or pharmacist .
How much medication should I use and how often ?
Your doctor will have told you what dose to use for each migraine attack .
Should you get another migraine attack in the same day as the attack you treated , you must not treat it with Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP unless at least 6 hours have elapsed since your last injection .
No more than 6 mL of Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP should be injected during a one - week period .
Do not use more than this amount unless instructed to do so by your doctor .
Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP is not intended for chronic daily use .
If you have any other unanswered questions about Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP , consult your doctor or pharmacist .
SAGENT ® Mfd .
for SAGENT Pharmaceuticals Schaumburg , IL 60195 ( USA ) Made in India © 2020 Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
December 2020 SAGENT Pharmaceuticals ® PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 25021 - 609 - 01 Rx only Dihydroergotamine Mesylate Injection , USP 1 mg per mL 1 mL Single - Dose Vial For Intravenous , Intramuscular or Subcutaneous Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
