Rx only DESCRIPTION Bethanechol chloride , a cholinergic agent , is a synthetic ester which is structurally and pharma - cologically related to acetylcholine .
It is designated chemically as 2 - [ ( aminocarbonyl ) oxy ] - N , N , N - trimethyl - 1 - propanaminium chloride .
Its molecular formula is C7H17ClN2O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a white , hygroscopic crystalline powder having a slight amine - like odor , freely soluble in water , and has a molecular weight of 196 . 68 .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 5 mg , 10 mg , 25 mg or 50 mg bethanechol chloride , USP .
Tablets also contain the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , ( 10 mg ) FD & C Red # 40 and ( 25 mg and 50 mg ) D & C Yellow # 10 and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bethanechol chloride acts principally by producing the effects of stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system .
It increases the tone of the detrusor urinae muscle , usually producing a contraction sufficiently strong to initiate micturition and empty the bladder .
It stimulates gastric motility , increases gastric tone and often restores impaired rhythmic peristalsis .
Stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system releases acetylcholine at the nerve endings .
When spontaneous stimulation is reduced and therapeutic intervention is required , acetylcholine can be given , but it is rapidly hydrolyzed by cholinesterase and its effects are transient .
Bethanechol chloride is not destroyed by cholinesterase and its effects are more prolonged than those of acetylcholine .
Effects on the GI and urinary tracts sometimes appear within 30 minutes after oral administration of bethanechol chloride , but more often 60 to 90 minutes are required to reach maximum effectiveness .
Following oral administration , the usual duration of action of bethanechol is one hour , although large doses ( 300 to 400 mg ) have been reported to produce effects for up to six hours .
Subcutaneous injection produces a more intense action on bladder muscle than does oral administration of the drug .
Because of the selective action of bethanechol , nicotinic symptoms of cholinergic stimulation are usually absent or minimal when orally or subcutaneously administered in therapeutic doses , while muscarinic effects are prominent .
Muscarinic effects usually occur within 5 to 15 minutes after subcutaneous injection , reach a maximum in 15 to 30 minutes , and disappear within two hours .
Doses that stimulate micturition and defecation and increase peristalsis do not ordinarily stimulate ganglia or voluntary muscles .
Therapeutic test doses in normal human subjects have little effect on heart rate , blood pressure or peripheral circulation .
Bethanechol chloride does not cross the blood - brain barrier because of its charged quaternary amine moiety .
The metabolic rate and mode of excretion of the drug have not been elucidated .
A clinical study ( Diokno , AC . ; Lapides , J . ; Urol 10 : 23 - 24 , July 1977 ) was conducted on the relative effectiveness of oral and subcutaneous doses of bethanechol chloride on the stretch response of bladder muscle in patients with urinary retention .
Results showed that 5 mg of the drug given subcutaneously stimulated a response that was more rapid in onset and of larger magnitude than an oral dose of 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg .
All the oral doses , however , had a longer duration of effect than the subcutaneous dose .
Although the 50 mg oral dose caused little change in intravesical pressure in this study , this dose has been found in other studies to be clinically effective in the rehabilitation of patients with decompensated bladders .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bethanechol chloride is indicated for the treatment of acute postoperative and postpartum nonobstructive ( functional ) urinary retention and for neurogenic atony of the urinary bladder with retention .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to bethanechol chloride tablets , hyperthyroidism , peptic ulcer , latent or active bronchial asthma , pronounced bradycardia or hypotension , vasomotor instability , coronary artery disease , epilepsy and parkinsonism .
Bethanechol chloride should not be employed when the strength or integrity of the gastrointestinal or bladder wall is in question , or in the presence of mechanical obstruction ; when increased muscular activity of the gastrointestinal tract or urinary bladder might prove harmful , as following recent urinary bladder surgery , gastrointestinal resection and anastomosis , or when there is possible gastrointestinal obstruction ; in bladder neck obstruction , spastic gastrointestinal disturbances , acute inflammatory lesions of the gastrointestinal tract , or peritonitis ; or in marked vagotonia .
PRECAUTIONS General In urinary retention , if the sphincter fails to relax as bethanechol contracts the bladder , urine may be forced up the ureter into the kidney pelvis .
If there is bacteriuria , this may cause reflux infection .
Information for Patients Bethanechol chloride tablets should preferably be taken one hour before or two hours after meals to avoid nausea or vomiting .
Dizziness , lightheadedness or fainting may occur , especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position .
Drug Interactions Special care is required if this drug is given to patients receiving ganglion blocking compounds because a critical fall in blood pressure may occur .
Usually , severe abdominal symptoms appear before there is such a fall in the blood pressure .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the effects upon fertility , mutagenic or carcinogenic potential of bethanechol chloride .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with bethanechol chloride .
It is also not known whether bethanechol chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Bethanechol chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from bethanechol chloride in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions are rare following oral administration of bethanechol , but are more common following subcutaneous injection .
Adverse reactions are more likely to occur when dosage is increased .
The following adverse reactions have been observed : Body as a Whole .
malaise ; Digestive : abdominal cramps or discomfort , colicky pain , nausea and belching , diarrhea , borborygmi , salivation ; Renal : urinary urgency ; Nervous System : headache ; Cardiovascular : a fall in blood pressure with reflex tachycardia , vasomotor response ; Skin : flushing producing a feeling of warmth , sensation of heat about the face , sweating ; Respiratory : bronchial constriction , asthmatic attacks ; Special Senses : lacrimation , miosis .
Causal Relationship Unknown The following adverse reactions have been reported , and a causal relationship to therapy with bethanechol has not been established : Body as a Whole : malaise ; Nervous System : seizures .
OVERDOSAGE Early signs of overdosage are abdominal discomfort , salivation , flushing of the skin ( " hot feeling " ) , sweating , nausea , and vomiting .
Atropine Sulfate is a specific antidote .
The recommended dose for adults is 0 . 6 mg .
Repeat doses can be given every two hours , according to clinical response .
The recommended dosage in infants and children up to 12 years of age is 0 . 01 mg / kg ( to a maximum single dose of 0 . 4 mg ) repeated every two hours as needed until the desired effect is obtained or adverse effects of atropine preclude further usage .
Subcutaneous injection of atropine is preferred except in emergencies when the intravenous route may be employed .
The oral LD50 of bethanechol chloride is 1510 mg / kg in the mouse .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be individualized , depending on the type and severity of the condition to be treated .
Preferably give the drug when the stomach is empty .
If taken soon after eating , nausea and vomiting may occur .
The usual adult oral dose ranges from 10 to 50 mg three or four times a day .
The minimum effective dose is determined by giving 5 to 10 mg initially and repeating the same amount at hourly intervals until satisfactory response occurs , or until a maximum of 50 mg has been given .
The effects of the drug sometimes appear within 30 minutes and are usually maximal within 60 to 90 minutes .
The drug ' s effects persist for about one hour .
If necessary , the effects of the drug can be abolished promptly by atropine ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Bethanechol Chloride Tablets USP Strength NDC # Pack Description 5 mg NDC 64679 - 965 - 01 Bottle of 100 ' s White , oval shaped tablets debossed with W965 on one side and breakline on the other side .
10 mg NDC 64679 - 966 - 01 Bottle of 100 ' s Pink , oval shaped tablets debossed with W966 on one side and breakline on the other side .
25 mg NDC 64679 - 967 - 01 Bottle of 100 ' s Light yellow , oval shaped tablets debossed with W967 on one side and breakline on the other side .
50 mg NDC 64679 - 968 - 01 Bottle of 100 ' s Yellow , oval shaped tablets debossed with W968 on one side and breakline on the other side .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Bottle contains desiccant .
Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Rev . 050810 5 mg Bottle of 100 ' s - NDC 64679 - 965 - 01 debossed with W965 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mg Bottle of 100 ' s - 64679 - 966 - 01 debossed with W966 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 25 mg Bottle of 100 ' s - 64679 - 967 - 01 debossed with W967 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 mg Bottle of 100 ' s - 64679 - 968 - 01 debossed with W968 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
