Active ingredients ( in each tablet ) Calcium carbonate 1000 mg Simethicone 60 mg Purpose Antacid Antigas Uses relieves : • ▪ acid indigestion • ▪ heartburn • ▪ sour stomach • ▪ upset stomach due to these symptoms • ▪ bloating and pressure commonly referred to as gas Warnings Do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ kidney stones • ▪ a calcium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug .
Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs .
When using this product at maximum dose , constipation may occur .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • ▪ adults and children 12 years and older : chew 1 to 2 tablets completely as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor .
Do not swallow tablets whole .
• ▪ do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Other information • ▪ each tablet contains : calcium 400 mg • ▪ store at room temperature • ▪ keep tightly closed and dry • ▪ avoid freezing • ▪ do not use if printed inner seal is broken or missing Inactive ingredients adipic acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , dextrose , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavors , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , silica , starch , sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Premier Value ® * COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENTS IN MAALOX ® ADVANCED MAXIMUM STRENGTH NDC : 68016 - 249 - 00 Antacid & Anti - Gas MAXIMUM STRENGTH Fast relief of : • ▪ Heartburn • ▪ Acid indigestion • ▪ Pressure & bloating • NaNAssorted Fruit 90 Chewable Tablets INDEPENDENTLY TESTED PV SATISFACTION GURANTEED Distributed by : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 East Lancaster Avenue , Wayne , PA 19087 If for any reason you are not satisfied with this product , please return it to the store where purchased for a full refund .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Novartis Consumer Health , Inc . , the distributor of Maalox ® Advanced Maximum Strength .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
