Rx only DESCRIPTION Leuprolide acetate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The chemical name is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide acetate ( salt ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] LUPRON INJECTION is a sterile , aqueous solution intended for subcutaneous injection .
It is available in a 2 . 8 mL multiple - dose vial containing leuprolide acetate ( 5 mg / mL ) , sodium chloride , USP ( 6 . 3 mg / mL ) for tonicity adjustment , benzyl alcohol , NF as a preservative ( 9 mg / mL ) , and water for injection , USP .
The pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide , NF and / or acetic acid , NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leuprolide acetate , an LH - RH agonist , acts as a potent inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion when given continuously and in therapeutic doses .
Animal and human studies indicate that following an initial stimulation of gonadotropins , chronic administration of leuprolide acetate results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
This effect is reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
Administration of leuprolide acetate has resulted in inhibition of the growth of certain hormone dependent tumors ( prostatic tumors in Noble and Dunning male rats and DMBA - induced mammary tumors in female rats ) as well as atrophy of the reproductive organs .
In humans , subcutaneous administration of single daily doses of leuprolide acetate results in an initial increase in circulating levels of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , leading to a transient increase in levels of the gonadal steroids ( testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males , and estrone and estradiol in pre - menopausal females ) .
However , continuous daily administration of leuprolide acetate results in decreased levels of LH and FSH .
In males , testosterone is reduced to castrate levels .
In pre - menopausal females , estrogens are reduced to post - menopausal levels .
These decreases occur within two to four weeks after initiation of treatment , and castrate levels of testosterone in prostatic cancer patients have been demonstrated for periods of up to five years .
Leuprolide acetate is not active when given orally .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Bioavailability by subcutaneous administration is comparable to that by intravenous administration .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of leuprolide following intravenous bolus administration to healthy male volunteers was 27 L .
In vitro binding to human plasma proteins ranged from 43 % to 49 % .
Metabolism In healthy male volunteers , a 1 mg bolus of leuprolide administered intravenously revealed that the mean systemic clearance was 7 . 6 L / h , with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 3 hours based on a two compartment model .
In rats and dogs , administration of 14 C - labeled leuprolide was shown to be metabolized to smaller inactive peptides , a pentapeptide ( Metabolite I ) , tripeptides ( Metabolites II and III ) and a dipeptide ( Metabolite IV ) .
These fragments may be further catabolized .
The major metabolite ( M - I ) plasma concentrations measured in 5 prostate cancer patients reached maximum concentration 2 to 6 hours after dosing and were approximately 6 % of the peak parent drug concentration .
One week after dosing , mean plasma M - I concentrations were approximately 20 % of mean leuprolide concentrations .
Excretion Following administration of LUPRON DEPOT 3 . 75 mg to 3 patients , less than 5 % of the dose was recovered as parent and M - I metabolite in the urine .
Special Populations The pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically and renally impaired patients has not been determined .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with leuprolide acetate .
However , because leuprolide acetate is a peptide that is primarily degraded by peptidase and not by cytochrome P - 450 enzymes as noted in specific studies , and the drug is only about 46 % bound to plasma proteins , drug interactions would not be expected to occur .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a controlled study comparing LUPRON 1 mg / day given subcutaneously to DES ( diethylstilbestrol ) , 3 mg / day , the survival rate for the two groups was comparable after two years of treatment .
The objective response to treatment was also similar for the two groups .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) is indicated in the palliative treatment of advanced prostatic cancer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • LUPRON INJECTION is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs or any of the excipients in LUPRON INJECTION : Reports of anaphylactic reactions to GnRH agonist analogs have been reported in the medical literature . 1 , 2 • LUPRON is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant while receiving the drug .
LUPRON may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Therefore , the possibility exists that spontaneous abortion may occur if the drug is administered during pregnancy .
If this drug is administered during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking any formulation of LUPRON , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS Initially , LUPRON , like other LH - RH agonists , causes increases in serum levels of testosterone .
Transient worsening of symptoms , or the occurrence of additional signs and symptoms of prostate cancer , may occasionally develop during the first few weeks of LUPRON treatment .
A small number of patients may experience a temporary increase in bone pain , which can be managed symptomatically .
As with other LH - RH agonists , isolated cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression have been observed , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications .
Safe use of leuprolide acetate in pregnancy has not been established clinically .
Before starting treatment with LUPRON , pregnancy must be excluded ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
Periodic monitoring of serum testosterone and prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) levels is recommended , especially if the anticipated clinical or biochemical response to treatment has not been achieved .
It should be noted that results of testosterone determinations are dependent on assay methodology .
It is advisable to be aware of the type and precision of the assay methodology to make appropriate clinical and therapeutic decisions .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with metastatic vertebral lesions and / or with urinary tract obstruction should be closely observed during the first few weeks of therapy ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
Patients with known allergies to benzyl alcohol , an ingredient of the drug ' s vehicle , may present symptoms of hypersensitivity , usually local , in the form of erythema and induration at the injection site .
Information for Patients See INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS which appears after the REFERENCE section .
Laboratory Tests Response to leuprolide acetate should be monitored by measuring serum levels of testosterone and prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) .
In the majority of patients , testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , declining thereafter to baseline levels or below by the end of the second week of treatment .
Castrate levels were reached within two to four weeks and once attained were maintained for as long as drug administration continued .
Drug Interactions See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics section .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of leuprolide acetate in therapeutic doses results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Normal function is usually restored within 4 to 12 weeks after treatment is discontinued .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in rats and mice .
In rats , a dose - related increase of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas was noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses ( 0 . 6 to 4 mg / kg ) .
There was a significant but not dose - related increase of pancreatic islet - cell adenomas in females and of testicular interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice no pituitary abnormalities were observed at a dose as high as 60 mg / kg for two years .
Patients have been treated with leuprolide acetate for up to three years with doses as high as 10 mg / day and for two years with doses as high as 20 mg / day without demonstrable pituitary abnormalities .
Mutagenicity studies have been performed with leuprolide acetate using bacterial and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of a mutagenic potential .
Clinical and pharmacologic studies in adults ( ≥ 18 years ) with leuprolide acetate and similar analogs have shown full reversibility of fertility suppression when the drug is discontinued after continuous administration for periods of up to 24 weeks .
However , no clinical studies have been conducted with leuprolide acetate to assess the reversibility of fertility suppression .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections ) When administered on day 6 of pregnancy at test dosages of 0 . 00024 , 0 . 0024 , and 0 . 024 mg / kg ( 1 / 600 to 1 / 6 the human dose ) to rabbits , LUPRON produced a dose - related increase in major fetal abnormalities .
Similar studies in rats failed to demonstrate an increase in major fetal malformations throughout gestation .
There was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights with the two higher doses of LUPRON in rabbits and with the highest dose in rats .
The effects on fetal mortality are expected consequences of the alterations in hormonal levels brought about by this drug .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether leuprolide acetate is excreted in human milk .
LUPRON should not be used by nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use See labeling for LUPRON INJECTION for Pediatric Use for the safety and effectiveness in children with central precocious puberty .
Geriatric Use In the clinical trials for LUPRON INJECTION , the majority ( 69 % ) of subjects studied were at least 65 years of age .
Therefore , the labeling reflects the pharmacokinetics , efficacy and safety of LUPRON in this population .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials In the majority of patients testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , declining thereafter to baseline levels or below by the end of the second week of treatment .
This transient increase was occasionally associated with a temporary worsening of signs and symptoms , usually manifested by an increase in bone pain ( see WARNINGS section ) .
In a few cases a temporary worsening of existing hematuria and urinary tract obstruction occurred during the first week .
Temporary weakness and paresthesia of the lower limbs have been reported in a few cases .
Potential exacerbations of signs and symptoms during the first few weeks of treatment is a concern in patients with vertebral metastases and / or urinary obstruction which , if aggravated , may lead to neurological problems or increase the obstruction .
In a comparative trial of LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) versus DES , in 5 % or more of the patients receiving either drug , the following adverse reactions were reported to have a possible or probable relationship to drug as ascribed by the treating physician .
Often , causality is difficult to assess in patients with metastatic prostate cancer .
Reactions considered not drug related are excluded .
LUPRON ( N = 98 ) DES ( N = 101 ) Number of Reports Cardiovascular System Congestive heart failure 1 5 ECG changes / ischemia 19 22 High blood pressure 8 5 Murmur 3 8 Peripheral edema 12 30 Phlebitis / thrombosis 2 10 Gastrointestinal System Anorexia 6 5 Constipation 7 9 Nausea / vomiting 5 17 Endocrine System [ 1 ] Decreased testicular size 7 11 null Gynecomastia / breast tenderness or pain 7 63 null Hot flashes 55 12 null Impotence 4 12 Hemic and Lymphatic System Anemia 5 5 Musculoskeletal System Bone pain 5 2 Myalgia 3 9 Central / Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness / lightheadedness 5 7 General pain 13 13 Headache 7 4 Insomnia / sleep disorders 7 5 Respiratory System Dyspnea 2 8 Sinus congestion 5 6 Integumentary System Dermatitis 5 8 Urogenital System Frequency / urgency 6 8 Hematuria 6 4 Urinary tract infection 3 7 Miscellaneous Asthenia 10 10 [ 1 ] Physiologic effect of decreased testosterone .
In this same study , the following adverse reactions were reported in less than 5 % of the patients on LUPRON .
Cardiovascular System — Angina , Cardiac arrhythmias , Myocardial infarction , Pulmonary emboli ; Gastrointestinal System — Diarrhea , Dysphagia , Gastrointestinal bleeding , Gastrointestinal disturbance , Peptic ulcer , Rectal polyps ; Endocrine System — Libido decrease , Thyroid enlargement ; Musculoskeletal System — Joint pain ; Central / Peripheral Nervous System — Anxiety , Blurred vision , Lethargy , Memory disorder , Mood swings , Nervousness , Numbness , Paresthesia , Peripheral neuropathy , Syncope / blackouts , Taste disorders ; Respiratory System — Cough , Pleural rub , Pneumonia , Pulmonary fibrosis ; Integumentary System — Carcinoma of skin / ear , Dry skin , Ecchymosis , Hair loss , Itching , Local skin reactions , Pigmentation , Skin lesions ; Urogenital System — Bladder spasms , Dysuria , Incontinence , Testicular pain , Urinary obstruction ; Miscellaneous — Depression , Diabetes , Fatigue , Fever / chills , Hypoglycemia , Increased BUN , Increased calcium , Increased creatinine , Infection / inflammation , Ophthalmologic disorders , Swelling ( temporal bone ) .
In an additional clinical trial and from long - term observation of both studies , the following additional adverse events ( excluding those considered not drug related ) were reported for patients receiving LUPRON .
Cardiovascular System — Bradycardia , Carotid bruit , Extrasystole , Palpitations , Perivascular cuffing ( eyes ) , Ruptured aortic aneurysm , Stroke , Tachycardia , Transient ischemic attack ; Gastrointestinal System — Flatus , Dryness of mouth and throat , Hepatitis , Hepatomegaly , Occult blood ( rectal exam ) , Rectal fistula / erythema ; Endocrine System — Libido increase , Thyroid nodule ; Musculoskeletal System — Ankylosing spondylosis , Arthritis , Blurred disc margins , Bone fracture , Muscle stiffness , Muscle tenderness , Pelvic fibrosis , Spasms / cramps ; Central / Peripheral Nervous System — Auditory hallucinations / tinnitus , Decreased hearing , Decreased reflexes , Euphoria , Hyperreflexia , Loss of smell , Motor deficiency ; Respiratory System — Chest tightness , Decreased breathing sounds , Hemoptysis , Pleuritic chest pain , Pulmonary infiltrate , Rales / rhonchi , Rhinitis , Strep throat , Wheezing / bronchitis ; Integumentary System — Boil ( pubic ) , Bruises , Hives , Keratosis , Mole , Shingles , Spiders ; Urogenital System — Blisters on penis , Inguinal hernia , Penile swelling , Post void residual , Prostatic pain , Pyuria ; Miscellaneous — Abdominal distention , Facial swelling / edema , Feet burning , Flu , Eyelid growth , Hypoproteinemia , Accidental injury , Knee effusion , Mass , Pallid , Sallow , Weakness .
Postmarketing During postmarketing surveillance which includes other dosage forms and other patient populations , the following adverse events were reported .
Symptoms consistent with an anaphylactoid or asthmatic process have been rarely ( incidence rate of about 0 . 002 % ) reported .
Rash , urticaria , and photosensitivity reactions have also been reported .
Localized reactions including induration and abscess have been reported at the site of injection .
Symptoms consistent with fibromyalgia ( e . g . , joint and muscle pain , headaches , sleep disorders , gastrointestinal distress , and shortness of breath ) have been reported individually and collectively .
Cardiovascular System – Hypotension , Myocardial infarction ; Endocrine System - Diabetes ; Gastrointestinal System – Hepatic dysfunction ; Hemic and Lymphatic System – Decreased WBC ; Integumentary System – Hair growth ; Central / Peripheral Nervous System – Spinal fracture / paralysis , Hearing disorder ; Miscellaneous – Hard nodule in throat , Weight gain , Increased uric acid ; Musculoskeletal System – Tenosynovitis - like symptoms ; Respiratory System – Respiratory disorders .
Changes in Bone Density : Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with an LH - RH agonist analog .
In a clinical trial , 25 men with prostate cancer , 12 of whom had been treated previously with leuprolide acetate for at least six months , underwent bone density studies as a result of pain .
The leuprolide - treated group had lower bone density scores than the nontreated control group .
It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men will have effects on bone density .
Pituitary apoplexy : During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed , with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
See other LUPRON DEPOT and LUPRON INJECTION package inserts for other events reported in the same and different patient populations .
OVERDOSAGE In rats subcutaneous administration of 250 to 500 times the recommended human dose , expressed on a per body weight basis , resulted in dyspnea , decreased activity , and local irritation at the injection site .
There is no evidence at present that there is a clinical counterpart of this phenomenon .
In early clinical trials with leuprolide acetate doses as high as 20 mg / day for up to two years caused no adverse effects differing from those observed with the 1 mg / day dose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 1 mg ( 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark ) administered as a single daily subcutaneous injection .
As with other drugs administered chronically by subcutaneous injection , the injection site should be varied periodically .
Each 0 . 2 mL contains 1 mg of leuprolide acetate , sodium chloride for tonicity adjustment , 1 . 8 mg of benzyl alcohol as preservative and water for injection .
The pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or acetic acid .
Follow the pictorial directions on the reverse side of this package insert for administration .
NOTE : As with all parenteral products , inspect the solution for discoloration and particulate matter before each use .
HOW SUPPLIED LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) is a sterile solution supplied in a 2 . 8 mL multiple - dose vial .
The vial is packaged as follows : 14 Day Patient Administration Kit with 14 disposable syringes and 28 alcohol swabs , NDC 0300 - 3612 - 28 and six - vial carton , NDC 0300 - 3612 - 24 .
Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light ; store vial in carton until use .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 005 , 063 and 4 , 005 , 194 .
REFERENCES • Taylor , JD .
Anaphylactic reaction to LHRH analogue , leuprorelin .
Med J Australia 1994 Oct ; 161 ( 3 ) : 455 .
• Letterie GS , et al .
Recurrent anaphylaxis to a depot form of GnRH analogue .
Obstet Gynecol 1991 Nov ; 78 : 943 – 946 .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Be sure to consult your physician with any questions you may have or for information about LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) and its use .
WHAT IS LUPRON ?
LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) is chemically similar to gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) a hormone which occurs naturally in your body .
Normally , your body releases small amounts of LH - RH and this leads to events which stimulate the production of sex hormones .
However , when you inject LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) , the normal events that lead to sex hormone production are interrupted and testosterone is no longer produced by the testes .
LUPRON must be injected because , like insulin which is injected by diabetics , LUPRON is inactive when taken by mouth .
If you were to discontinue the drug for any reason , your body would begin making testosterone again .
DIRECTIONS FOR USING LUPRON • Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water .
• If using a new bottle for the first time , flip off the plastic cover to expose the grey rubber stopper .
Wipe metal ring and rubber stopper with an alcohol wipe each time you use LUPRON .
Check the liquid in the container .
If it is not clear or has particles in it , DO NOT USE IT .
Exchange it at your pharmacy for another container .
• Remove outer wrapping from one syringe .
Pull plunger back until the tip of the plunger is at the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• Take cover off needle .
Push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper on the LUPRON bottle .
• Push the plunger all the way in to inject air into the bottle .
• Keep the needle in the bottle and turn the bottle upside down .
Check to make sure the tip of the needle is in the liquid .
Slowly pull back on the plunger , until the syringe fills to the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• Toward the end of a two - week period , the amount of LUPRON left in the bottle will be small .
Take special care to hold the bottle straight and to keep the needle tip in liquid while pulling back on the plunger .
• Keeping the needle in the bottle and the bottle upside down , check for air bubbles in the syringe .
If you see any , push the plunger slowly in to push the air bubble back into the bottle .
Keep the tip of the needle in the liquid and pull the plunger back again to fill to the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• Do this again if necessary to eliminate air bubbles .
• To protect your skin , inject each daily dose at a different body spot .
• Choose an injection spot .
Cleanse the injection spot with another alcohol wipe .
• Hold the syringe in one hand .
Hold the skin taut , or pull up a little flesh with the other hand , as you were instructed .
• Holding the syringe as you would a pencil , thrust the needle all the way into the skin at a 90 ° angle .
Push the plunger to administer the injection .
• Hold an alcohol wipe down on your skin where the needle is inserted and withdraw the needle at the same angle it was inserted .
• Use the disposable syringe only once and dispose of it properly as you were instructed .
Needles thrown into a garbage bag could accidentally stick someone .
NEVER LEAVE SYRINGES , NEEDLES OR DRUGS WHERE CHILDREN CAN REACH THEM .
SOME SPECIAL ADVICE • You may experience hot flashes when using LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) .
During the first few weeks of treatment you may experience increased bone pain , increased difficulty in urinating , and less commonly but most importantly , you may experience the onset or aggravation of nerve symptoms .
In any of these events , discuss the symptoms with your doctor .
Like other treatment options , LUPRON may cause impotence .
Notify your doctor if you develop new or worsened symptoms after beginning LUPRON treatment .
• You may experience some irritation at the injection site , such as burning , itching or swelling .
These reactions are usually mild and go away .
If they do not , tell your doctor .
• If you have experienced an allergic reaction to other drugs like LUPRON , you should not use this drug .
• Do not stop taking your injections because you feel better .
You need an injection every day to make sure LUPRON keeps working for you .
• If you need to use an alternate to the syringe supplied with LUPRON , low - dose insulin syringes should be utilized .
• When the drug level gets low , take special care to hold the bottle straight up and down and to keep the needle tip in liquid while pulling back on the plunger .
• Do not try to get every last drop out of the bottle .
This will increase the possibility of drawing air into the syringe and getting an incomplete dose .
Some extra drug has been provided so that you can withdraw the recommended number of doses .
• Tell your pharmacist when you will need LUPRON so it will be at the pharmacy when you need it .
• Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not store near a radiator or other very warm place .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light ; store vial in carton until use .
• Do not leave your drug or hypodermic syringes where anyone can pick them up .
• Keep this and all other medications out of reach of children .
Manufactured for TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 , U . S . A . ® – Registered ( No . 3612 ) 03 - A066 - R7 ; December 2007 © 1993 – 2007 TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc .
For Pediatric Use LUPRON ® INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) Rx only DESCRIPTION Leuprolide acetate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The chemical name is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide acetate ( salt ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] LUPRON INJECTION is a sterile , aqueous solution intended for daily subcutaneous injection .
It is available in a 2 . 8 mL multiple dose vial containing leuprolide acetate ( 5 mg / mL ) , sodium chloride , USP ( 6 . 3 mg / mL ) for tonicity adjustment , benzyl alcohol , NF as a preservative ( 9 mg / mL ) , and water for injection , USP .
The pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide , NF and / or acetic acid , NF .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leuprolide acetate , a GnRH agonist , acts as a potent inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion when given continuously and in therapeutic doses .
Animal and human studies indicate that following an initial stimulation of gonadotropins , chronic administration of leuprolide acetate results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
This effect is reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
Leuprolide acetate is not active when given orally .
Pharmacokinetics A pharmacokinetic study of leuprolide acetate in children has not been performed .
Absorption In adults , bioavailability by subcutaneous administration is comparable to that by intravenous administration .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of leuprolide following intravenous bolus administration to healthy adult male volunteers was 27 L .
In vitro binding to human plasma proteins ranged from 43 % to 49 % .
Metabolism In healthy adult male volunteers , a 1 mg bolus of leuprolide administered intravenously revealed that the mean systemic clearance was 7 . 6 L / h , with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 3 hours based on a two compartment model .
In rats and dogs , administration of 14 C - labeled leuprolide was shown to be metabolized to smaller inactive peptides , a pentapeptide ( Metabolite I ) , tripeptides ( Metabolites II and III ) and a dipeptide ( Metabolite IV ) .
These fragments may be further catabolized .
The major metabolite ( M - I ) plasma concentrations measured in 5 prostate cancer patients reached maximum concentration 2 to 6 hours after dosing and were approximately 6 % of the peak parent drug concentration .
One week after dosing , mean plasma M - I concentrations were approximately 20 % of mean leuprolide concentrations .
Excretion Following administration of LUPRON DEPOT 3 . 75 mg to three adult patients , less than 5 % of the dose was recovered as parent and M - I metabolite in the urine .
Special Populations The pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically and renally impaired patients has not been determined .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with leuprolide acetate .
However , because leuprolide acetate is a peptide that is primarily degraded by peptidase and the drug is only about 46 % bound to plasma proteins , drug interactions would not be expected to occur .
CLINICAL STUDIES In children with central precocious puberty ( CPP ) , stimulated and basal gonadotropins are reduced to prepubertal levels .
Testosterone and estradiol are reduced to prepubertal levels in males and females respectively .
Reduction of gonadotropins will allow for normal physical and psychological growth and development .
Natural maturation occurs when gonadotropins return to pubertal levels following discontinuation of leuprolide acetate .
The following physiologic effects have been noted with the chronic administration of leuprolide acetate in this patient population .
• Skeletal Growth .
A measurable increase in body length can be noted since the epiphyseal plates will not close prematurely .
• Organ Growth .
Reproductive organs will return to a prepubertal state .
• Menses .
Menses , if present , will cease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LUPRON INJECTION is indicated in the treatment of children with central precocious puberty .
Children should be selected using the following criteria : • Clinical diagnosis of CPP ( idiopathic or neurogenic ) with onset of secondary sexual characteristics earlier than 8 years in females and 9 years in males .
• Clinical diagnosis should be confirmed prior to initiation of therapy : • Confirmation of diagnosis by a pubertal response to a GnRH stimulation test .
The sensitivity and methodology of this assay must be understood .
• Bone age advanced 1 year beyond the chronological age .
• Baseline evaluation should also include : • Height and weight measurements .
• Sex steroid levels .
• Adrenal steroid level to exclude congenital adrenal hyperplasia .
• Beta human chorionic gonadotropin level to rule out a chorionic gonadotropin secreting tumor .
• Pelvic / adrenal / testicular ultrasound to rule out a steroid secreting tumor .
• Computerized tomography of the head to rule out intracranial tumor .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs or any of the excipients in LUPRON INJECTION .
Reports of anaphylactic reactions to GnRH agonist analogs have been reported in the medical literature . 1 , 2 • LUPRON is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant while receiving the drug .
LUPRON may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Major fetal abnormalities were observed in rabbits but not in rats after administration of leuprolide acetate throughout gestation .
There was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights in rats and rabbits .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy , Teratogenic Effects section . )
The effects on fetal mortality are expected consequences of the alterations in hormonal levels brought about by this drug .
Therefore , the possibility exists that spontaneous abortion may occur if the drug is administered during pregnancy .
If this drug is administered during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking any formulation of LUPRON , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS During the early phase of therapy , gonadotropins and sex steroids rise above baseline because of the natural stimulatory effect of the drug .
Therefore , an increase in clinical signs and symptoms may be observed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section ) .
Noncompliance with drug regimen or inadequate dosing may result in inadequate control of the pubertal process .
The consequences of poor control include the return of pubertal signs such as menses , breast development , and testicular growth .
The long - term consequences of inadequate control of gonadal steroid secretion are unknown , but may include a further compromise of adult stature .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with known allergies to benzyl alcohol , an ingredient of the vehicle of LUPRON INJECTION , may present symptoms of hypersensitivity , usually local , in the form of erythema and induration at the injection site .
Information for Parents Prior to starting therapy with LUPRON INJECTION , the parent or guardian must be aware of the importance of continuous therapy .
Adherence to daily drug administration schedules must be accepted if therapy is to be successful .
Irregular dosing could restart the maturation process .
• During the first 2 months of therapy , a female may experience menses or spotting .
If bleeding continues beyond the second month , notify the physician .
• Any irritation at the injection site should be reported to the physician immediately .
If the child has experienced an allergic reaction to other drugs like LUPRON , this drug should not be used .
• Report any unusual signs or symptoms to the physician , like continued pubertal changes , substantial mood swings or behavioral changes .
Laboratory Tests Response to leuprolide acetate should be monitored 1 - 2 months after the start of therapy with a GnRH stimulation test and sex steroid levels .
Measurement of bone age for advancement should be done every 6 - 12 months .
Sex steroids may increase or rise above prepubertal levels if the dose is inadequate ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Once a therapeutic dose has been established , gonadotropin and sex steroid levels will decline to prepubertal levels .
Drug Interactions See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics section .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of leuprolide acetate in therapeutic doses results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Normal function is usually restored within 4 to 12 weeks after treatment is discontinued .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in rats and mice .
In rats , a dose - related increase of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas was noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses of 0 . 6 to 4 mg / kg ( > 100 times the clinical doses of 7 . 5 to 15 mg / month based on body surface area ) .
There was a significant but not dose - related increase of pancreatic islet - cell adenomas in females and of testes interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice , no leuprolide acetate - induced tumors or pituitary abnormalities were observed at daily dose as high as 60 mg / kg ( > 5000 times the clinical doses based on body surface area ) .
Adult patients have been treated with leuprolide acetate for up to three years with doses as high as 10 mg / day and for two years with doses as high as 20 mg / day without demonstrable pituitary abnormalities .
Although no clinical studies have been completed in children to assess the full reversibility of fertility suppression , animal studies ( prepubertal and adult rats and monkeys ) with leuprolide acetate and other GnRH analogs have shown functional recovery .
However , following a study with leuprolide acetate , immature male rats demonstrated tubular degeneration in the testes even after a recovery period .
In spite of the failure to recover histologically , the treated males proved to be as fertile as the controls .
Also , no histologic changes were observed in the female rats following the same protocol .
In both sexes , the offspring of the treated animals appeared normal .
The effect of the treatment of the parents on the reproductive performance of the F1 generation was not tested .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) When administered on day 6 of pregnancy at test dosages of 0 . 00024 , 0 . 0024 , and 0 . 024 mg / kg ( 1 / 1200 to 1 / 12 the human pediatric dose ) to rabbits , LUPRON produced a dose - related increase in major fetal abnormalities .
Similar studies in rats failed to demonstrate an increase in fetal malformations .
There was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights with the two higher doses of LUPRON in rabbits and with the highest dose in rats .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether leuprolide acetate is excreted in human milk .
LUPRON should not be used by nursing mothers .
Geriatric Use See labeling for LUPRON INJECTION for the pharmacokinetics , efficacy and safety of LUPRON in this population .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Potential exacerbation of signs and symptoms during the first few weeks of treatment ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) is a concern in patients with rapidly advancing central precocious puberty .
In two studies of children with central precocious puberty , in 2 % or more of the patients receiving the drug , the following adverse reactions were reported to have a possible or probable relationship to drug as ascribed by the treating physician .
Reactions considered not drug related are excluded .
Number of Patients N = 395 ( Percent ) Body as a Whole General Pain 7 ( 2 ) Integumentary System Acne / Seborrhea 7 ( 2 ) Injection Site Reactions Including Abscess 21 ( 5 ) Rash Including Erythema Multiforme 8 ( 2 ) Urogenital System Vaginitis / Bleeding / Discharge 7 ( 2 ) In those same studies , the following adverse reactions were reported in less than 2 % of the patients .
Body as a Whole - Body Odor , Fever , Headache , Infection ; Cardiovascular System - Syncope , Vasodilation ; Digestive System - Dysphagia , Gingivitis , Nausea / Vomiting ; Endocrine System - Accelerated Sexual Maturity ; Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders - Peripheral Edema , Weight Gain ; Nervous System - Nervousness , Personality Disorder , Somnolence , Emotional Lability ; Respiratory System - Epistaxis ; Integumentary System - Alopecia , Skin Striae ; Urogenital System - Cervix Disorder , Gynecomastia / Breast Disorders , Urinary Incontinence .
Postmarketing During postmarketing surveillance , which includes other dosage forms and other patient populations , the following adverse events were reported .
Symptoms consistent with an anaphylactoid or asthmatic process have been rarely ( incidence rate of about 0 . 002 % ) reported .
Rash , urticaria , and photosensitivity reactions have also been reported .
Localized reactions including induration and abscess have been reported at the site of injection .
Symptoms consistent with fibromyalgia ( e . g . , joint and muscle pain , headaches , sleep disorders , gastrointestinal distress , and shortness of breath ) have been reported individually and collectively .
Cardiovascular System – Hypotension , Pulmonary embolism ; Gastrointestinal System – Hepatic dysfunction ; Hemic and Lymphatic System – Decreased WBC ; Integumentary System – Hair growth ; Central / Peripheral Nervous System – Peripheral neuropathy , Spinal fracture / paralysis , Hearing disorder ; Miscellaneous – Hard nodule in throat , Weight gain , Increased uric acid ; Musculoskeletal System – Tenosynovitis - like symptoms ; Respiratory System – Respiratory disorders ; Urogenital System – Prostate pain .
Changes in Bone Density : Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with an LH - RH agonist analog .
In a clinical trial , 25 men with prostate cancer , 12 of whom had been treated previously with leuprolide acetate for at least six months , underwent bone density studies as a result of pain .
The leuprolide - treated group had lower bone density scores than the nontreated control group .
The effects on bone density in children are unknown .
Pituitary apoplexy : During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed , with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
See other LUPRON INJECTION and LUPRON DEPOT package inserts for adverse events reported in other patient populations .
OVERDOSAGE In rats , subcutaneous administration of 125 to 250 times the recommended human pediatric dose , expressed on a per body weight basis , resulted in dyspnea , decreased activity , and local irritation at the injection site .
There is no evidence at present that there is a clinical counterpart of this phenomenon .
In early clinical trials using leuprolide acetate in adult patients , doses as high as 20 mg / day for up to two years caused no adverse effects differing from those observed with the 1 mg / day dose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION LUPRON INJECTION can be administered by a patient / parent or health care professional .
The dose of LUPRON INJECTION must be individualized for each child .
The dose is based on a mg / kg ratio of drug to body weight .
Younger children require higher doses on a mg / kg ratio .
After 1 - 2 months of initiating therapy or changing doses , the child must be monitored with a GnRH stimulation test , sex steroids , and Tanner staging to confirm downregulation .
Measurements of bone age for advancement should be monitored every 6 - 12 months .
The dose should be titrated upward until no progression of the condition is noted either clinically and / or by laboratory parameters .
The first dose found to result in adequate downregulation can probably be maintained for the duration of therapy in most children .
However , there are insufficient data to guide dosage adjustment as patients move into higher weight categories after beginning therapy at very young ages and low dosages .
It is recommended that adequate downregulation be verified in such patients whose weight has increased significantly while on therapy .
As with other drugs administered by injection , the injection site should be varied periodically .
Discontinuation of LUPRON INJECTION should be considered before age 11 for females and age 12 for males .
The recommended starting dose is 50 mcg / kg / day administered as a single subcutaneous injection .
If total downregulation is not achieved , the dose should be titrated upward by 10 mcg / kg / day .
This dose will be considered the maintenance dose .
Follow the pictorial directions on the reverse side of this package insert for administration .
NOTE : As with other parenteral products , inspect the solution for discoloration and particulate matter before each use .
HOW SUPPLIED LUPRON INJECTION ( leuprolide acetate ) is a sterile solution supplied in a 2 . 8 mL multiple - dose vial .
The vial is packaged as follows : • 14 Day Patient Administration Kit with 14 disposable syringes and 28 alcohol swabs , NDC 0300 - 3612 - 28 .
• Six - vial carton , NDC 0300 - 3612 - 24 .
• Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light ; store vial in carton until use .
• Use the syringes supplied with LUPRON INJECTION .
Insulin syringes may be substituted for use with LUPRON INJECTION .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 005 , 063 ; 4 , 005 , 194 .
REFERENCES • Taylor , JD .
Anaphylactic reaction to LHRH analogue , leuprorelin .
Med J Australia 1994 Oct ; 161 ( 3 ) : 455 .
• Letterie GS , et al .
Recurrent anaphylaxis to a depot form of GnRH analogue .
Obstet Gynecol 1991 Nov ; 78 : 943 – 946 .
Manufactured for TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 , U . S . A . ® – Registered ( No . 3612 ) ADMINISTERING THE INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read this booklet before injecting the medication .
Read the complete instructions for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 , U . S . A . ( No . 3612 ) 03 - A066 R7 ; December 2007 © 1993 – 2007 TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc .
Provided as an educational service by TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc .
TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 , U . S . A . [ Bar code 128 of commodity number ] ADMINISTERING THE INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Wash hands thoroughly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Check the liquid in the container .
It should look clear .
DO NOT USE if it is not clear or if it has particles in it .
If using a new bottle , flip off the plastic cover to expose the grey rubber stopper .
Use an alcohol swab to cleanse the metal ring and rubber stopper on medication bottle every day , just before you use it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Remove outer wrapping from one syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Pull the syringe plunger back until its tip is at the proper mark .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Uncover needle .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
Place the bottle on a clean , flat surface and push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper on the bottle .
Push the plunger all the way in to inject air into the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Keep the needle in the bottle .
Lift the bottle and turn it straight upside down .
Check to see that the needle tip is in the liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 .
With the needle tip in the liquid , slowly pull back the plunger until syringe fills to the proper mark .
If any bubbles appear in the syringe , remove them by pushing the plunger up slowly .
With the needle tip still in the liquid , pull the plunger until it is once more at the proper mark .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 9 .
Choose a different injection site each day .
Cleanse the injection site with a new alcohol swab .
Hold the skin the way you were instructed .
Slide the needle quickly all the way through the skin , into the subcutaneous tissue , at a 90 ° angle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 10 .
Push the plunger to inject the medication .
Withdraw the needle at the same angle it was inserted ( 90 ° ) .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 11 .
Dispose of the syringe and alcohol swabs as you were instructed .
Remember : use the disposable syringe only once .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
