Drug Facts Active ingredient Sulfur 3 . 0 % Purpose Acne Treatment Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use this product if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to sulfur Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of the skin When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• apply only to the areas with acne .
• do not get into eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • side effects occur • irritation becomes severe Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients Allantoin , Buddleja Davidii Leaf Extract , Butylene Glycol , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Citric Acid , Cucumis Sativus Fruit Extract , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Glycerin , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , PEG - 12 , Polygonum Cuspidatum Root Extract , Potassium Sorbate , Propylene Glycol , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Sodium Benzoate , Water ( Aqua ) Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 506 - 6072 8 AM to 10 PM daily or visit www . nerdskincare . com A unique formula that kills acne - causing bacteria .
And it ' s free of salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide , so it wo n't burn your face or stain your pillow .
Benzoyl Peroxide - Free MANUFACTURED FOR NERD SKINCARE , INC . 1933 DAVIS ST , SAN LEANDRO , CA 94577 USA MADE IN TAIWAN Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
