I . V . / I . M . Rx only WARNING Ketorolac tromethamine , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , is indicated for the short - term ( up to 5 days ) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level .
It is NOT indicated for minor or chronicpainful conditions .
Ketorolac tromethamine is a potent NSAID analgesic , and its administration carries many risks .
The resulting NSAID - related adverse events can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac tromethamine is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately . Increasing the dose of ketorolac tromethamine beyond the label recommendations will not provide better efficacy but will result in increasing the risk of developing serious adverse events .
Gastrointestinal Effects • Ketorolac tromethamine can cause peptic ulcers , gastrointestinal bleeding , and / or perforation .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation , and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Renal Effects • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment and in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see WARNINGS ) .
Risk of Bleeding • Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , patients with hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis , and those at high risk of bleeding ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery , and is CONTRAINDICATED intraoperatively when hemostasis is critical because of the increased risk of bleeding .
Hypersensitivity • Hypersensitivity reactions , ranging from bronchospasm to anaphylactic shock , have occurred and appropriate counteractive measures must be available when administering the first dose of ketorolac tromethamine injection ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine or allergic manifestations to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Intrathecal or Epidural Administration • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED for intrathecal or epidural administration due to its alcohol content .
Labor , Delivery and Nursing • The use of ketorolac tromethamine in labor and delivery is CONTRAINDICATED because it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions .
• The use of ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in nursing mothers because of the potential adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates .
Concomitant Use with NSAIDs • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients currently receiving ASA or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risk of inducing serious NSAID - related side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets • Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are indicated only as continuation therapy to ketorolac tromethamineIV / IM , and the combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamineIV / IM and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 ( five ) days , because of the increased risk of serious adverse events .
• The recommended total daily dose of ketorolac tromethamine tablets ( maximum 40 mg ) is significantly lower than for ketorolac tromethamineIV / IM ( maximum 120 mg ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Special Populations • Dosage should be adjusted for patients 65 years or older , for patients under 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , and for patients with moderately elevated serum creatinine ( see WARNINGS ) .
IV / IM doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection are not to exceed 60 mg ( total dose per day ) in these patients .
Ketorolac tromethamine injection is indicated as a single dose therapy in pediatric patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) ; Not to exceed 30 mg for IM administration and 15 mg for IV administration .
DESCRIPTION Ketorolac tromethamine is a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
The chemical name for ketorolac tromethamine is ( ± ) - 5 - benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S and [ + ] R ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine may exist in three crystal forms .
All forms are equally soluble in water .
Ketorolac tromethamine has a pKa of 3 . 5 and an n - octanol / water partition coefficient of 0 . 26 .
The molecular weight of ketorolac tromethamine is 376 . 41 and the molecular formula is C19H24N2O6 .
Ketorolac tromethamine is available for intravenous ( IV ) or intramuscular ( IM ) administration as : 15 mg in 1 mL ( 1 . 5 % ) , 30 mg in 1 mL ( 3 % ) in sterile solutions ; 60 mg in 2 mL ( 3 % ) of ketorolac tromethamine in sterile solution is available for IM administration only .
The solutions contain 10 % ( w / v ) alcohol , and 6 . 68 mg , 4 . 35 mg , and 8 . 70 mg , respectively , of sodium chloride in sterile water .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid , and the solutions are packaged with nitrogen .
The sterile solutions are clear and slightly yellow in color .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PHARMACODYNAMICS Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) that exhibits analgesic activity in animal models .
Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits synthesis of prostaglandins and may be considered a peripherally - acting analgesic .
The biological activity of ketorolac tromethamine is associated with the S - form .
Ketorolac tromethamine possesses no sedative or anxiolytic properties .
The peak analgesic effect of ketorolac tromethamine occurs within 2 to 3 hours and is not statistically significantly different over the recommended dosage range of ketorolac tromethamine .
The greatest difference between large and small doses of ketorolac tromethamine by either route is in the duration of analgesia .
PHARMACOKINETICS Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S - and [ + ] R - enantiomeric forms , with the S - form having analgesic activity .
Comparison of IV , IM and Oral Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine , following IV , IM and oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine , are compared in Table 1 .
In adults , the extent of bioavailability following administration of the oral and IM forms of ketorolac tromethamine was equal to that following an IV bolus .
Linear Kinetics In adults , following administration of single oral , IM or IV dosesof ketorolac tromethamine , in the recommended dosage ranges , the clearance of the racemate does not change .
This implies that the pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine in adults , following single or multiple IM , IV , or recommended oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine , are linear .
At the higher recommended doses , there is a proportional increase in the concentrations of free and bound racemate .
Distribution The mean apparent volume ( Vβ ) of ketorolac tromethamine following complete distribution was approximately 13 liters .
This parameter was determined from single - dose data .
The ketorolac tromethamine racemate has been shown to be highly protein - bound ( 99 % ) .
Nevertheless , even plasma concentrations as high as 10 mcg / mL will only occupy approximately 5 % of the albumin binding sites .
Thus , the unbound fraction for each enantiomer will be constant over the therapeutic range .
A decrease in serum albumin , however , will result in increased free drug concentrations .
Ketorolac tromethamine is excreted in human milk ( see PRECAUTIONS : Lactation and Nursing ) .
Metabolism Ketorolac tromethamine is largely metabolized in the liver .
The metabolic products are hydroxylated and conjugated forms of the parent drug .
The products of metabolism , and some unchanged drug , are excreted in the urine .
Excretion The principal route of elimination of ketorolac and its metabolites is renal .
About 92 % of a given dose is found in the urine , approximately 40 % as Metabolites and 60 % as unchanged ketorolac .
Approximately 6 % of a dose is excreted in the feces .
A single - dose study with 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine ( n = 9 ) demonstrated that the S - enantiomer is cleared approximately two times faster than the R - enantiomer , and that the clearance was independent of the route of administration .
This means that the ratio of S / R plasma concentrations decreases with time after each dose .
There is little or no inversion of the R - to S - form in humans .
The clearance of the racemate in normal subjects , elderly individuals , and in hepatically and renally impaired patients , is outlined in Table 2 .
The half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine S - enantiomer was approximately 2 . 5 hours ( SD ± 0 . 4 ) compared with 5 hours ( SD ± 1 . 7 ) for the R - enantiomer .
In other studies , the half - life for the racemate has been reported to lie within the range of 5 to 6 hours .
% Dose metabolized = < 50 % Dose excreted in urine = 91 % Dose excreted in feces = 6 % Plasma protein binding = 99 1 Time - to - peak plasma concentration 2 Peak plasma concentration 3 Trough plasma concentration 4 Average plasma concentration 5 Volume of distribution † Derived from PO pharmacokinetic studies in 77 normal fasted volunteers * Derived from IM pharmacokinetic studies in 54 normal volunteers ‡ Derived from IV pharmacokinetic studies in 24 normal volunteers †† Not applicable because 60 mg is only recommended as a single dose ** Mean value was simulated from observed plasma concentration data and standard deviation was simulated from percent coefficient of variation for observed Cmax and Tmax data Table 1 Table of Approximate Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) Following Oral , Intramuscular and Intravenous Doses of Ketorolac Tromethamine Oral † Intramuscular * Intravenous Bolus ‡ Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( units ) 10 mg 15 mg 30 mg 60 mg 15 mg 30 mg Bioavailability ( extent ) 100 % Tmax1 ( min ) 44 ± 34 33 ± 21 ** 44 ± 29 33 ± 21 ** 1 . 1 ± 0 . 7 ** 2 . 9 ± 1 . 8 Cmax2 ( mcg / mL ) [ Single - dose ] 0 . 87 ± 0 . 22 1 . 14 ± 0 . 32 ** 2 . 42 ± 0 . 68 4 . 55 ± 1 . 27 ** 2 . 47 ± 0 . 51 ** 4 . 65 ± 0 . 96 Cmax ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] 1 . 05 ± 0 . 26 ** 1 . 56 ± 0 . 44 ** 3 . 11 ± 0 . 87 ** N / A †† 3 . 09 ± 1 . 17 ** 6 . 85 ± 2 . 61 Cmin3 ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] 0 . 29 ± 0 . 07 ** 0 . 47 ± 0 . 13 ** 0 . 93 ± 0 . 26 ** N / A 0 . 61 ± 0 . 21 ** 1 . 04 ± 0 . 35 Cavg4 ( mcg / mL ) [ steady state qid ] 0 . 59 ± 0 . 2 ** 0 . 94 ± 0 . 29 ** 1 . 88 ± 0 . 59 ** N / A 1 . 09 ± 0 . 3 ** 2 . 17 ± 0 . 59 Vβ5 ( L / kg ) —————— 0 . 175 ± 0 . 039 ——————— 0 . 210 ± 0 . 044 1 Estimated from 30 mg single IM doses of ketorolac tromethamine 2 Estimated from 10 mg single oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine 3 Liters / hour / kilogram IV - Administration : In normal subjects ( n = 37 ) , the total clearance of 30 mg IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine was 0 . 030 ( 0 . 017 - 0 . 051 ) L / h / kg .
The terminal half - life was 5 . 6 ( 4 - 7 . 9 ) hours .
Table 2 The Influence of Age , Liver and Kidney Function , on the Clearance and Terminal Half - life of Ketorolac Tromethamine ( IM 1 and ORAL 2 ) in Adult Populations Total Clearance [ in L / h / kg ] 3 Terminal Half - life [ in hours ] Type of Subjects IM Mean ( range ) ORAL Mean ( range ) IM Mean ( range ) ORAL Mean ( range ) Normal Subjects IM ( n = 54 ) mean age = 32 , range = 18 - 60 Oral ( n = 77 ) mean age = 32 , range = 20 - 60 0 . 023 ( 0 . 010 - 0 . 046 ) 0 . 025 ( 0 . 013 - 0 . 050 ) 5 . 3 ( 3 . 5 - 9 . 2 ) 5 . 3 ( 2 . 4 - 9 ) Healthy Elderly Subjects IM ( n = 13 ) , Oral ( n = 12 ) mean age = 72 , range = 65 - 78 0 . 019 ( 0 . 013 - 0 . 034 ) 0 . 024 ( 0 . 018 - 0 . 034 ) 7 ( 4 . 7 - 8 . 6 ) 6 . 1 ( 4 . 3 - 7 . 6 ) Patients with Hepatic Dysfunction IM and Oral ( n = 7 ) mean age = 51 , range = 43 - 64 0 . 029 ( 0 . 013 - 0 . 066 ) 0 . 033 ( 0 . 019 - 0 . 051 ) 5 . 4 ( 2 . 2 - 6 . 9 ) 4 . 5 ( 1 . 6 - 7 . 6 ) Patients with Renal Impairment IM ( n = 25 ) , Oral ( n = 9 ) serum creatinine = 1 . 9 - 5 . 0 mg / dL , mean age ( IM ) = 54 , range = 35 - 71 mean age ( Oral ) = 57 , range = 39 - 70 0 . 015 ( 0 . 005 - 0 . 043 ) 0 . 016 ( 0 . 007 - 0 . 052 ) 10 . 3 ( 5 . 9 - 19 . 2 ) 10 . 8 ( 3 . 4 - 18 . 9 ) Renal Dialysis Patients IM and Oral ( n = 9 ) mean age = 40 , range = 27 - 63 0 . 016 ( 0 . 003 - 0 . 036 ) − 13 . 6 ( 8 - 39 . 1 ) − Accumulation Ketorolac tromethamine administered as an IV bolus every 6 hours for 5 days to healthy subjects ( n = 13 ) , showed no significant difference in Cmax on Day 1 and Day 5 .
Trough levels averaged 0 . 29 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 13 ) on Day 1 and 0 . 55 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 23 ) on Day 6 .
Steady state was approached after the fourth dose .
Accumulation of ketorolac tromethamine has not been studied in special populations ( geriatric , pediatric , renal failure or hepatic disease patients ) .
Kinetics in Special Populations Geriatric Patients Based on single - dose data only , the half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine racemate increased from 5 to 7 hours in the elderly ( 65 to 78 years ) compared with young healthy volunteers ( 24 to 35 years ) ( see Table 2 ) .
There was little difference in the Cmax for the two groups ( elderly , 2 . 52 mcg / mL ± 0 . 77 ; young , 2 . 99 mcg / mL ± 1 . 03 ) ( see PRECAUTIONS − Geriatric Use ) .
Pediatric Patients Following a single intravenous bolus dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg in 10 children 4 to 8 years old , the half - life was 6 hours ( range : 3 . 5 to 10 h ) , the average clearance was 0 . 042 L / hr / kg and the Vd was 0 . 26 L / kg ( range : 0 . 19 to 0 . 44 L / kg ) .
In a second study , following a single intravenous dose of 0 . 6 mg / kg in 24 children 3 to 18 years old , Cmax was 4 . 3 ± 1 . 7 mcg / mL , Tmax was 10 . 25 ± 1 . 15 minutes , half - life was 3 . 8 ± 2 . 6 hours , Cl was 0 . 0678 L / hr / kg and Vd was 0 . 25 L / kg .
The volume of distribution and clearance of ketorolac in pediatric patients was twice that observed in adult subjects ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) .
There are no pharmacokinetic data available for ketorolac tromethamine administration by the IM route in pediatric patients .
Renal Insufficiency Based on single - dose data only , the mean half - life of ketorolac tromethamine in renally impaired patients is between 6 and 19 hours and is dependent on the extent of the impairment .
There is poor correlation between creatinine clearance and total ketorolac tromethamine clearance in the elderly and populations with renal impairment ( r = 0 . 5 ) .
In patients with renal disease , the AUC ∞ of each enantiomer increased by approximately 100 % compared with healthy volunteers .
The volume of distribution doubles for the S - enantiomer and increases by 1 / 5 th for the R - enantiomer .
The increase in volume of distribution of ketorolac tromethamine implies an increase in unbound fraction .
The AUC ∞ ratio of the ketorolac tromethamine enantiomers in healthy subjects and patients remained similar , indicating there was no selective excretion of either enantiomer in patients compared to healthy subjects ( see WARNINGS – Renal Effects and Table 2 ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency There was no significant difference in estimates of half - life , AUC ∞ and Cmax in 7 patients with liver disease compared to healthy volunteers ( see PRECAUTIONS – Hepatic Effects and Table 2 ) .
Race Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been identified .
CLINICAL STUDIES Adult Patients The analgesic efficacy of intramuscularly and intravenously administered ketorolac tromethamine was investigated in two postoperative pain models : general surgery ( orthopedic , gynecologic and abdominal ) and oral surgery ( removal of impacted third molars ) .
The studies were double - blind , single - and multiple - dose , parallel trial designs in patients with moderate to severe pain at baseline .
Ketorolac tromethamine injection was compared as follows : IM to meperidine or morphine administered intramuscularly , and IV to morphine administered either directly IV or through a PCA ( Patient - Controlled Analgesia ) pump .
Short - term Use ( up to 5 days ) Studies In adults , the comparisons of intramuscular administration during the first hour , the onset of analgesic action was similar for ketorolac tromethamine and the narcotics , but the duration of analgesia was longer with ketorolac tromethamine than with the opioid comparators meperidine or morphine .
In a multi - dose , postoperative ( general surgery ) double - blind trial of ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IM versus morphine 6 and 12 mg IM , each drug given on an “ as needed ” basis for up to 5 days , the overall analgesic effect of ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IM was between that of morphine 6 and 12 mg .
The majority of patients treated with either ketorolac tromethamine or morphine were dosed for up to 3 days ; a small percentage of patients received 5 days of dosing .
In clinical settings where perioperative morphine was allowed , ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IV , given once or twice as needed , provided analgesia comparable to morphine 4 mg IV once or twice as needed .
There was relatively limited experience with 5 consecutive days of IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine in controlled clinical trials , as most patients were given the drug for 3 days or less .
The adverse events seen with IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine were similar to those observed with IM - administered ketorolac tromethamine , as would be expected based on the similar pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence ( AUC , clearance , plasma half - life ) of IV and IM routes of ketorolac tromethamine administration .
Pediatric Patients The analgesic efficacy of single doses of ketorolac tromethamine has been demonstrated by showing a decrease in the need for supplemental narcotic in pediatric patients receiving ketorolac as compared to placebo .
See discussion of these results under Clinical Studies with Concomitant Use of Opioids below .
Clinical Studies with Concomitant Use of Opioids Adult Patients Clinical studies in postoperative pain management have demonstrated that ketorolac tromethamine injection , when used in combination with opioids , significantly reduced opioid consumption .
This combination may be useful in the subpopulation of patients especially prone to opioid - related complications .
Ketorolac tromethamine and narcotics should not be administered in the same syringe .
In a postoperative study , where all patients received morphine by a PCA device , patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine intravenously as fixed intermittent boluses ( e . g . , 30 mg initial dose followed by 15 mg q3h ) , required significantly less morphine ( 26 % ) than the placebo group .
Analgesia was significantly superior , at various postdosing pain assessment times , in the patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine intravenously plus PCA morphine as compared to patients receiving PCA - administered morphine alone .
Pediatric Patients : Ketorolac tromethamine injection reduced the need for supplemental opioid ( fentanyl ) , when a 1 mg / kg dose was administered immediately following tonsillectomy compared to saline controls ( see WARNINGS : Hemorrhage ) .
In another study , when a single bolus dose of 0 . 9 mg / kg of ketorolac tromethamine injection was given to pediatric patients ages 5 to 12 years , compared to saline , a reduction in supplemental opioid was needed following various surgical procedures .
In a third study less supplemental morphine was needed in pediatric patients ages 8 to 16 years , who received a 0 . 8 mg / kg IV injection of ketorolac tromethamine injection in conjunction with morphine following orthopedic surgical procedures , compared to morphine alone .
In a study in pediatric patients ages 3 to 12 years , ketorolac tromethamine injection demonstrated a slower onset of analgesia , but a longer duration of action compared to morphine .
There is limited data available to support the use of multiple doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection in pediatric patients .
There are also insufficient data available to support the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in pediatric patients .
Postmarketing Surveillance Study A large postmarketing observational , non - randomized study , involving approximately 10 , 000 patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine , demonstrated that the risk of clinically serious gastrointestinal ( G . I . ) bleeding was dose - dependent ( see Table 3 A and 3 B . )
This was particularly true in elderly patients who received an average dose greater than 60 mg / day of ketorolac tromethamine ( Table 3 A ) .
Table 3 Incidence of Clinically Serious G . I . Bleeding as Related to Age , Total Daily Dose , and History of G . I . Perforation , Ulcer , Bleeding ( PUB ) after up to 5 Days of Treatment with Ketorolac Tromethamine InjectionA .
Patients without History of PUB Age of Patients Total Daily Dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ≤ 60 mg > 60 to 90 mg > 90 to 120 mg > 120 mg < 65 years of age 0 . 4 % 0 . 4 % 0 . 9 % 4 . 6 % ≥ 65 years of age 1 . 2 % 2 . 8 % 2 . 2 % 7 . 7 % B . Patients with History of PUB Age of Patients Total Daily Dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ≤ 60 mg > 60 to 90 mg > 90 to 120 mg > 120 mg < 65 years of age 2 . 1 % 4 . 6 % 7 . 8 % 15 . 4 % ≥ 65 years of age 4 . 7 % 3 . 7 % 2 . 8 % 25 % INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adult Patients : Ketorolac tromethamine is indicated for the short - term ( ≤ 5 days ) management of moderately severe , acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM ketorolac tromethamine , and the oral dosage form is to be used only as continuation treatment , if necessary .
Combined use of IV / IM and the oral dosage form is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible , but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days .
Pediatric Patients : The safety and effectiveness of single doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection have been established in pediatric patients between the ages of 2 and 16 years .
Ketorolac tromethamine as a single injectable dose , has been shown to be effective in the management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in the postoperative setting .
There is limited data available to support the use of multiple doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection in pediatric patients .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years .
Use of ketorolac tromethamine injection in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of ketorolac tromethamine injection in adults with additional pharmacokinetic , efficacy and safety data on its use in pediatric patients available in the published literature ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine injection has been used concomitantly with morphine and meperidine and has shown an opioid - sparing effect .
For breakthrough pain , it is recommended to supplement the lower end of the ketorolac tromethamine injection dosage range with low doses of narcotics prn , unless otherwise contraindicated .
Ketorolac tromethamine and narcotics should not be administered in the same syringe ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION − Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ( see also Boxed WARNING ) • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment or in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see WARNINGS for correction of volume depletion ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage .
• The use of ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in nursing mothers because of the potential adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine , allergic manifestations to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery and is CONTRAINDICATED intraoperatively when hemostasis is critical because of the increased risk of bleeding .
• Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis , and those at high risk of bleeding ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients currently receiving ASA or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risks of inducing serious NSAID - related adverse events .
• Ketorolac tromethamine injection is CONTRAINDICATED for neuraxial ( epidural or intrathecal ) administration due to its alcohol content .
• The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is CONTRAINDICATED .
WARNINGS ( see also Boxed WARNING ) ► The combined use of ketorolac tromethamine injection and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days in adults .
Only single doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection are recommended for use in pediatric patients .
The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are : • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Effects − Risk of GI Ulceration , Bleeding and Perforation : Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and / or G . I . bleeding .
Serious gastrointestinal toxicity , such as bleeding , ulceration , and perforation , can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine .
Studies to date with NSAIDs have not identified any subset of patients not at risk of developing peptic ulceration and bleeding .
Elderly or debilitated patients seem to tolerate ulceration or bleeding less well than other individuals , and most spontaneous reports of fatal G . I . events are in this population .
Postmarketing experience with parenterally administered ketorolac tromethamine suggests that there may be a greater risk of gastrointestinal ulcerations , bleeding and perforation in the elderly .
• The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with ketorolac tromethamine .
In a non - randomized , in - hospital postmarketing surveillance study , comparing ketorolac tromethamine injection to parenteral opioids , higher rates of clinically serious G . I . bleeding were seen in patients < 65 years of age who received an average total daily dose of more than 90 mg of ketorolac tromethamine injection per day ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY − Postmarketing Surveillance Study ) .
• The same study showed that elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) , and debilitated patients are more susceptible to gastrointestinal complications .
A history of peptic ulcer disease was revealed as another risk factor that increases the possibility of developing serious gastrointestinal complications during ketorolac tromethamine therapy ( see Tables 3 A and 3 B ) .
• Hemorrhage : Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis , and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well , use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders should be undertaken very cautiously , and those patients should be carefully monitored .
Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants ( e . g . , heparin or dicumarol derivatives ) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently ; therefore , physicians should administer such concomitant therapy only extremely cautiously .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and prophylactic low - dose heparin ( 2500 to 5000 units q12h ) , warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively , but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding .
Until data from such studies are available , physicians should carefully weigh the benefits against the risks , and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only extremely cautiously .
In patients who receive anticoagulants for any reason , there is an increased risk of intramuscular hematoma formation from IM administered ketorolac tromethamine ( see PRECAUTIONS − Drug Interactions ) .
Patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis should be monitored closely .
In postmarketing experience , postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in associationwith the perioperative use of ketorolac tromethamine injection .
Therefore , perioperative use of ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided and postoperative use be undertaken with caution when hemostasis is critical ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatrics and Tonsillectomy : Physicians should consider the increased risk of bleeding before deciding to administer ketorolac tromethamine injection in patients following tonsillectomy .
Ketorolac tromethamine injection is not recommended for use in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years .
In a retrospective analysis of patients having undergone tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy , the risk of bleeding was 10 . 1 % in patients administered ketorolac tromethamine injection compared to 2 . 2 % in those receiving opioids .
The postoperative hemorrhage rate in patients 12 years and younger was 6 . 5 % and 3 . 3 % with and without ketorolac tromethamine injection , respectively .
In a prospective study of ketorolac tromethamine injection in pediatric patients ( ages 3 to 9 years ) undergoing tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy , the overall incidence of bleeding was similar between the patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine injection and morphine ( 16 . 3 % versus 17 % , respectively ) .
However , during the first 24 hours after surgery , a higher incidence of bleeding was observed in the ketorolac tromethamine injection group ( 14 . 3 % ) versus the morphine group ( 4 . 2 % ) .
• Anaphylactoid Reactions : Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without a known previous exposure or hypersensitivity to aspirin , ketorolac tromethamine , or other NSAIDs , or in individuals with a history of angioedema , bronchospastic reactivity ( e . g . , asthma ) , and nasal polyps .
Anaphylactoid reactions , like anaphylaxis , may have a fatal outcome .
• Impaired Renal Function : Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function , or a history of kidney disease because it is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis .
Renal toxicity with ketorolac tromethamine has been seen in patients with conditions leading to a reduction in blood volume and / or renal blood flow where renal prostaglandins have a supportive role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of ketorolac tromethamine may cause a dose - dependent reduction in renal prostaglandin formation and may precipitate acute renal failure .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , dehydration , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and the elderly .
Discontinuation of ketorolac tromethamine therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
Renal Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys , which , in patients with reduced creatinine clearance , will result in diminished clearance of the drug ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) and such patients should be followed closely .
With the use of ketorolac tromethamine , there have been reports of acute renal failure , interstitial nephritis , and nephrotic syndrome .
Because patients with underlying renal insufficiency are at increased risk of developing acute renal failure , the risks and benefits should be assessed prior to giving ketorolac tromethamine to these patients .
Hence , in patients with moderately elevated serum creatinine , it is recommended that the daily dose of ketorolac tromethamine injection be reduced by half , not to exceed 60 mg / day .
Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WITH SERUM CREATININE CONCENTRATIONS INDICATING ADVANCED RENAL IMPAIRMENT ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hypovolemia should be corrected before treatment with ketorolac tromethamine is initiated .
• Fluid Retention and Edema : Fluid retention , edema , retention of NaCl , oliguria , elevations of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine have been reported in clinical trials with ketorolac tromethamine .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used only very cautiously in patients with cardiac decompensation , hypertension , or similar conditions .
• Pregnancy : In late pregnancy , as with other NSAIDs , ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL • Hepatic Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function , or a history of liver disease .
Treatment with ketorolac tromethamine may cause elevations of liver enzymes , and in patients with pre - existing liver dysfunction it may lead to the development of a more severe hepatic reaction .
The administration of ketorolac tromethamine should be discontinued in patients in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred as a result of ketorolac tromethamine therapy .
• Hematologic Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet aggregation and may prolong bleeding time ; therefore , it is contraindicated as a pre - operative medication , and caution should be used when hemostasis is critical .
Unlike aspirin , the inhibition of platelet function by ketorolac tromethamine disappears within 24 to 48 hours after the drug is discontinued .
Ketorolac tromethamine does not appear to affect platelet count , prothrombin time ( PT ) or partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) .
In controlled clinical studies , where ketorolac tromethamine was administered intramuscularly or intravenously postoperatively , the incidence of clinically significant postoperative bleeding was 0 . 4 % for ketorolac tromethamine compared to 0 . 2 % in the control groups receiving narcotic analgesics .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Ketorolac tromethamine is a potent NSAID and may cause serious side effects such as gastrointestinal bleeding or kidney failure , which may result in hospitalization and even fatal outcome .
Physicians , when prescribing ketorolac tromethamine , should inform their patients or their guardians of the potential risks of ketorolac tromethamine treatment ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
Advise patients not to give ketorolac tromethamine tablets to other family members and to discard any unused drug .
Remember that the total duration of ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 ( five ) days in adults or a single dose in pediatric patients ages 2 to 16 years .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein ( mean 99 . 2 % ) .
Warfarin , Digoxin , Salicylate and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine ( 99 . 5 % control vs 99 . 3 % ) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg / mL .
Ketorolac does not alter digoxin protein binding .
In vitro studies indicate that , at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate ( 300 mcg / mL ) , the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99 . 2 % to 97 . 5 % , representing a potential two - fold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels .
Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin , warfarin , ibuprofen , naproxen , piroxicam , acetaminophen , phenytoin , and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding .
In a study involving 12 volunteers , ketorolac tromethamine tablets were co - administered with a single dose of 25 mg warfarin , causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin .
In another study , ketorolac tromethamine injection was given with two doses of 5000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers , resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6 . 4 minutes ( 3 . 2 to 11 . 4 min ) compared to a mean of 6 . 0 minutes ( 3 . 4 to 7 . 5 min ) for heparin alone and 5 . 1 minutes ( 3 . 5 to 8 . 5 min ) for placebo .
Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and warfarin or heparin , the administration of ketorolac tromethamine to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously , and patients should be closely monitored ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Furosemide Ketorolac tromethamine administered IV or IM reduced the diuretic response to furosemide in normovolemic healthy subjects by approximately 20 % ( mean sodium and urinary output decreased 17 % ) .
Probenecid Concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels ( total AUC increased approximately 3 - fold from 5 . 4 to 17 . 8 mcg / h / mL ) and terminal half - life increased approximately 2 - fold from 6 . 6 to 15 . 1 hours .
Therefore , concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated .
Lithium Inhibition of renal lithium clearance , leading to an increase in plasma lithium concentration , has been reported with some prostaglandin synthesis - inhibiting drugs .
The effect of ketorolac tromethamine on plasma lithium has not been studied , but cases of increased lithium plasma levels during ketorolac tromethamine therapy have been reported .
Methotrexate Concomitant administration of methotrexate and some NSAIDs has been reported to reduce the clearance of methotrexate , enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate .
The effect of ketorolac tromethamine on methotrexate clearance has not been studied .
Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In postmarketing experience , there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac tromethamine injection and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied .
ACE Inhibitors Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of renal impairment , particularly in volume - depleted patients .
Antiepileptic Drugs Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and antiepileptic drugs ( phenytoin , carbamazepine ) .
Psychoactive Drugs Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac tromethamine was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs ( fluoxetine , thiothixene , alprazolam ) .
Morphine Ketorolac tromethamine injection has been administered concurrently with morphine in several clinical trials of postoperative pain without evidence of adverse interactions .
Do not mix ketorolac tromethamine and morphine in the same syringe .
There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac tromethamine induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month study in mice with oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended IM or IV dose of 30 mg qid , based on area - under - the - plasma concentration curve [ AUC ] ) , and a 24 - month study in rats at 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times the human AUC ) , showed no evidence of tumorigenicity .
Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test , unscheduled DNA synthesis and repair , and in forward mutation assays .
Ketorolac tromethamine did not cause chromosome breakage in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
At 1590 mcg / mL and at higher concentrations , ketorolac tromethamine increased the incidence of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovarian cells .
Impairment of fertility did not occur in male or female rats at oral doses of 9 mg / kg ( 0 . 9 times the human AUC ) and 16 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 times the human AUC ) of ketorolac tromethamine , respectively .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies have been performed during organogenesis using daily oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 0 . 37 times the human AUC ) in rabbits and at 10 mg / kg ( 1 . 0 times the human AUC ) in rats .
Results of these studies did not reveal evidence of teratogenicity to the fetus .
Doses of ketorolac tromethamine tablets at 1 . 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 14 times the human AUC ) , administered after gestation day 17 , caused dystocia and higher pup mortality in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of ketorolac tromethamine in pregnant women .
Ketorolac tromethamine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery The use of ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicatedin labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Lactation and Nursing After a single administration of a 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine tablet to humans , the maximum milk concentration observed was 7 . 3 ng / mL and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 037 .
After one day of dosing ( qid ) , the maximum milk concentration was 7 . 9 ng / mL and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 025 .
Because of the possible adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates , use in nursing mothers is CONTRAINDICATED .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of single doses of ketorolac tromethamine injection have been established in pediatric patients between the ages of 2 and 16 years .
Ketorolac tromethamine injection has been shown to be effective in the management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 2 have not been established .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine injection is not recommended in pediatric patients below the age of 2 .
The risk of bleeding was greater in those patients administered ketorolac tromethamine injection following tonsillectomy .
Physicians should consider the increased risk of bleeding before deciding to administer ketorolac tromethamine injection in patients following tonsillectomy ( see WARNINGS : Hemorrhage and Pediatrics and Tonsillectomy ) .
The risks identified in the adult population with ketorolac tromethamine injection use also apply to pediatric patients .
Therefore , consult the CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections when prescribing ketorolac tromethamine injection to pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use ( ≥ 65 Years of Age ) Because ketorolac tromethamine may be cleared more slowly by the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) who are also more sensitive to the adverse effects of NSAIDs ( see WARNINGS − Renal Effects ) , extra caution and reduced dosages ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) must be used when treating the elderly with ketorolac tromethamine injection .
The lower end of the ketorolac tromethamine injection dosage range is recommended for patients over 65 years of age and total daily dose is not to exceed 60 mg .
The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with , ketorolac tromethamine .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac tromethamine .
Practitioners should be alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac tromethamine , such as G . I . ulceration , bleeding and perforation , postoperative bleeding , acute renal failure , anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions , and liver failure ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
These NSAID - related complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac tromethamine is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately .
The Adverse Reactions Listed Below Were Reported In Clinical Trials As Probably Related To KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE .
• Incidence Greater Than 1 % ( Percentage of incidence in parentheses for those events reported in 3 % or more patients ) Body as a Whole : edema ( 4 % ) .
Cardiovascular : hypertension .
Dermatologic : pruritus , rash .
Gastrointestinal : nausea ( 12 % ) , dyspepsia ( 12 % ) , gastrointestinal pain ( 13 % ) , diarrhea ( 7 % ) , constipation , flatulence , gastrointestinal fullness , vomiting , stomatitis .
Hemic and Lymphatic : purpura .
Nervous System : headache ( 17 % ) , drowsiness ( 6 % ) , dizziness ( 7 % ) , sweating .
Injection - site pain was reported by 2 % of patients in multi - dose studies .
• Incidence 1 % or Less Body as a Whole : weight gain , fever , infections , asthenia .
Cardiovascular : palpitation , pallor , syncope .
Dermatologic : urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : gastritis , rectal bleeding , eructation , anorexia , increased appetite .
Hemic and Lymphatic : epistaxis , anemia , eosinophilia .
Nervous System : tremors , abnormal dreams , hallucinations , euphoria , extrapyramidal symptoms , vertigo , paresthesia , depression , insomnia , nervousness , excessive thirst , dry mouth , abnormal thinking , inability to concentrate , hyperkinesis , stupor .
Respiratory : dyspnea , pulmonary edema , rhinitis , cough .
Special Senses : abnormal taste , abnormal vision , blurred vision , tinnitus , hearing loss .
Urogenital : hematuria , proteinuria , oliguria , urinary retention , polyuria , increased urinary frequency .
The Following Adverse Events Were Reported From Postmarketing Experience .
Body as a Whole : hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reaction , laryngeal edema , tongue edema ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , angioedema , myalgia .
Cardiovascular : hypotension and flushing .
Dermatologic : Lyell ’ s syndrome , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis , maculo - papular rash , urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : peptic ulceration , G . I . hemorrhage , G . I . perforation ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , melena , acute pancreatitis , hematemesis , esophagitis .
Hemic and Lymphatic : postoperative wound hemorrhage rarely requiring blood transfusion ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia .
Hepatic : hepatitis , liver failure , cholestatic jaundice .
Nervous System : convulsions , psychosis , aseptic meningitis .
Respiratory : asthma , bronchospasm .
Urogenital : acute renal failure ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , flank pain with or without hematuria and / or azotemia , nephritis , hyponatremia , hyperkalemia , hemolytic uremic syndrome .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms following acute NSAIDs overdoses are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression and coma may occur , but are rare .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs , and may occur following an overdose .
Patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care following a NSAIDs overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Emesis and / or activated charcoal ( 60 g to 100 g in adults , 1 g / kg to 2 g / kg in children ) and / or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large oral overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
In controlled overdosage , daily doses of 360 mg of ketorolac tromethamine injection given for 5 days ( three times the highest recommended dose ) , caused abdominal pain and peptic ulcers which healed after discontinuation of dosing .
Metabolic acidosis has been reported following intentional overdosage .
Single overdoses of ketorolac tromethamine have been variously associated with abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , hyperventilation , peptic ulcers and / or erosive gastritis and renal dysfunction which have resolved after discontinuation of dosing .
Dialysis does not significantly clear ketorolac tromethamine from the blood stream .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION IN ADULTS , THE COMBINED DURATION OF USE OF KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION AND KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE TABLET IS NOT TO EXCEED 5 DAYS .
IN ADULTS , THE USE OF KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE TABLETS IS ONLY INDICATED AS CONTINUATION THERAPY TO KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION .
KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION Adult Patients : Ketorolac tromethamine injection may be used as a single or multiple dose , on a regular or prn schedule for the management of moderately severe , acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Hypovolemia should be corrected prior to the administration of ketorolac tromethamine ( see WARNINGS − Renal Effects ) .
Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible , but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days .
When administering ketorolac tromethamine , the IV bolus must be given over no less than 15 seconds .
The IM administration should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle .
The analgesic effect begins in ~ 30 minutes with maximum effect in 1 to 2 hours after dosing IV or IM .
Duration of analgesic effect is usually 4 to 6 hours .
Single - Dose Treatment : The following regimen should be limited to single administration use only .
Adult Patients : IM Dosing : • Patients < 65 years of age : One dose of 60 mg .
• Patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired and / or less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight : One dose of 30 mg .
IV Dosing : • Patients < 65 years of age : One dose of 30 mg .
• Patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired and / or less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight : One dose of 15 mg .
Pediatric Patients ( 2 to 16 years of age ) : The pediatric population should receive only a single dose of ketorolac tromethamine injection as follows : IM Dosing : One dose of 1 mg / kg up to a maximum of 30 mg .
IV Dosing : One dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg up to a maximum of 15 mg .
Multiple - Dose Treatment ( IV or IM ) : • Patients < 65 years of age : The recommended dose is 30 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 120 mg .
• For patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired patients ( see WARNINGS ) , and patients less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) : The recommended dose is 15 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours .
The maximum daily dose for these populations should not exceed 60 mg .
For breakthrough pain , do not increase the dose or the frequency of ketorolac tromethamine .
Consideration should be given to supplementing these regimens with low doses of opioids “ prn ” unless otherwise contraindicated .
Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection : Ketorolac tromethamine should not be mixed in a small volume ( e . g . , in a syringe ) with morphine sulfate , meperidine hydrochloride , promethazine hydrochloride or hydroxyzine hydrochloride ; this will result in precipitation of ketorolac from solution .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection , USP for intramuscular and intravenous use is available in an iSecureTM sterile cartridge unit : 30 mg : 30 mg / mL , 1 mL iSecure sterile cartridge unit ( with Luer Lock ) boxes of : 10 NDC 21695 - 588 - 10 25 NDC 21695 - 588 - 10 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Retain in carton until time of use .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Revised : March , 2007 Directions for iSecure Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
To release plunger rod , grasp syringe and depress rod until it releases from the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Attach plunger rod to the syringe barrel by inserting rod into the plunger end and turning clockwise .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Remove luer tip cover .
Attach needle or blunt cannula if applicable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Expel air by pushing on the plunger rod .
Do not touch the syringe tip .
Administer Drug .
Note : To prevent needlestick injuries , needles and blunt cannulas should not be recapped , purposely bent , or broken by hand .
Printed in USA EN - 1465 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Packaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
