Active IngredientsPurpose Octinoxate 5 % Sunscreens Titanium Dioxide 1 . 6 % Uses • Provides moderate protection against adverse effects of the sun • Higher SPF gives more protection Warnings For external use only When using this product Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help .
Directions • Use as a normal foundation • Apply evenly at least 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply as needed • Not intended for children under the age of 12 • Not intended for protection while sunbathing Other information Do not store above 30 oC or 86 oF Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Cyclopentasiloxane , Butylene glycol , Cyclohexasiloxane , Ethylhexyl stearate , Dimethicone , Mica , Phenyl trimethicone , Disteardimonium hectorite , Dimethicone copolyol , Magnesium sulfate , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Hexyl laurate , Polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , Propylene carbonate , Aluminum stearate , Alumina , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Methylparaben , Isopropyl palmitate , Butylparaben , Ethylparaben , Lupinus albus seed extract , Lecithin , Tetrasodium EDTA , Carbomer , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Polysorbate 20 , BHT , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 3 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS More than make - up Give your skin an extra lift with this incredibly clever foundation .
Bursting with beauty benefits , it combines naturally flawless cover with a gentle firming effect .
It hides blemishes and evens out skin tone , while minimising the appearance of lines and wrinkles , to leave your skin looking younger .
Fragrance free , silky and lightweight , with SPF 15 .
Moisturises for up to 8 hours to keep your skin supple and radiant , without blocking pores .
Ready to face the day ... Shake well before use .
Dot a little where you need it most , usually your cheeks , nose and chin .
Blend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Non - pore blocking www . boots . com Mfd in France for BBI Ltd NG2 3 AA .
UK Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc Stamford CT 06901 Bottle label Active Ingredients : Octinoxate 5 % Titanium Dioxide 1 . 6 % Give your skin an extra lift with this incredibly clever foundation that combines naturally flawless cover with a gentle firming effect .
It hides blemishes and evens out skintone , while minimising the appearance of lines and wrinkles , to leave your skin looking younger .
Shake well before use .
Blend on smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge .
Non - pore blocking .
www . boots . com Mfd in France for BBI Ltd NG2 3 AA .
UK Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT 06901 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Carton label No7 Lifting and Firming Foundation Gently lifts and firms your skin Sunscreen SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic Boots 30 ml e 1 US Fl .
Oz Lifting and Firming Fnd Vanilla carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bottle label Lifting and Firming Foundation Sunscreen SPF 15 Hypo - allergenic Boots 30 ml e 1 US Fl .
Oz Lifting and Firming Fdn Vanilla bottle labels . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
