Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % White petrolatum 42 . 3 % Purposes Sunscreens Skin protectant Uses • • helps prevent sunburn • • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun • • helps prevent and temporarily protects chafed , chapped or cracked lips • • helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • reapply at least every 2 hours • • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • limited time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf extract , carnauba wax , cetyl alcohol , fragrance , isocetyl stearate , isopropyl lanolate , lanolin , mineral oil , paraffin , saccharin , tocopheryl linoleate / oleate , vitamin E acetate , white wax Questions or comments ?
call weekdays from 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 877 - 227 - 3421 Additional information Marketed by : Pfizer Madison , NJ 07940 USA © 2018 Pfizer Inc .
For most recent product information , visit www . chapstick . com Paraben Free PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NEW Improved Formula BRAND LIP CARE ChapStick ® SKIN PROTECTANT | SUNSCREEN BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 MOISTURIZER 2 in 1 Lipcare 8 HOUR MOISTURE SPF 15 Original NET WT 0 . 15 OZ ( 4 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
