Rx only DESCRIPTION Amantadine hydrochloride is designated chemically as 1 - adamantanamine hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Amantadine hydrochloride is a stable white or nearly white crystalline powder , freely soluble in water and soluble in alcohol and in chloroform .
Amantadine hydrochloride has pharmacological actions as both an anti - Parkinson and an antiviral drug .
Amantadine hydrochloride syrup ( amantadine hydrochloride oral solution , USP ) contains 50 mg of amantadine hydrochloride per 5 mL and has the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , artificial raspberry flavor , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium citrate dihydrate , and sorbitol solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PharmacodynamicsMechanism of ActionAntiviralThe mechanism by which amantadine exerts its antiviral activity is not clearly understood .
It appears to mainly prevent the release of infectious viral nucleic acid into the host cell by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein .
In certain cases , amantadine is also known to prevent virus assembly during virus replication .
It does not appear to interfere with the immunogenicity of inactivated influenza A virus vaccine .
Antiviral ActivityAmantadine inhibits the replication of influenza A virus isolates from each of the subtypes , i . e . , H1N1 , H2N2 and H3N2 .
It has very little or no activity against influenza B virus isolates .
A quantitative relationship between the in vitro susceptibility of influenza A virus to amantadine and the clinical response to therapy has not been established in man .
Sensitivity test results , expressed as the concentration of amantadine required to inhibit by 50 % the growth of virus ( ED50 ) in tissue culture vary greatly ( from 0 . 1 µg / mL to 25 . 0 µg / mL ) depending upon the assay protocol used , size of virus inoculum , isolates of influenza A virus strains tested , and the cell type used .
Host cells in tissue culture readily tolerated amantadine up to a concentration of 100 µg / mL .
Drug ResistanceInfluenza A variants with reduced in vitro sensitivity to amantadine have been isolated from epidemic strains in areas where adamantane derivatives are being used .
Influenza viruses with reduced in vitro sensitivity have been shown to be transmissible and to cause typical influenza illness .
The quantitative relationship between the in vitro sensitivity of influenza A variants to amantadine and the clinical response to therapy has not been established .
Mechanism of ActionParkinson ' s DiseaseThe mechanism of action of amantadine in the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease and drug - induced extrapyramidal reactions is not known .
Data from earlier animal studies suggest that amantadine may have direct and indirect effects on dopamine neurons .
More recent studies have demonstrated that amantadine is a weak , non - competitive NMDA receptor antagonist ( Ki = 10µM ) .
Although amantadine has not been shown to possess direct anticholinergic activity in animal studies , clinically , it exhibits anticholinergic - like side effects such as dry mouth , urinary retention , and constipation .
PharmacokineticsAmantadine is well absorbed orally .
Maximum plasma concentrations are directly related to dose for doses up to 200 mg / day .
Doses above 200 mg / day may result in a greater than proportional increase in maximum plasma concentrations .
It is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion .
Eight metabolites of amantadine have been identified in human urine .
One metabolite , an N - acetylated compound , was quantified in human urine and accounted for 5 – 15 % of the administered dose .
Plasma acetylamantadine accounted for up to 80 % of the concurrent amantadine plasma concentration in 5 of 12 healthy volunteers following the ingestion of a 200 mg dose of amantadine .
Acetylamantadine was not detected in the plasma of the remaining seven volunteers .
The contribution of this metabolite to efficacy or toxicity is not known .
There appears to be a relationship between plasma amantadine concentrations and toxicity .
As concentration increases , toxicity seems to be more prevalent , however , absolute values of amantadine concentrations associated with adverse effects have not been fully defined .
After oral administration of a single dose of 100 mg amantadine hydrochloride in a syrup formulation to five healthy volunteers , the mean ± SD maximum plasma concentration Cmax was 0 . 24 ± 0 . 04 µg / mL and ranged from 0 . 18 to 0 . 28 µg / mL .
After 15 days of amantadine 100 mg b . i . d . , the Cmax was 0 . 47 ± 0 . 11 µg / mL in four of the five volunteers .
Plasma amantadine clearance ranged from 0 . 2 to 0 . 3 L / hr / kg after the administration of 5 mg to 25 mg intravenous doses of amantadine to 15 healthy volunteers .
In six healthy volunteers , the ratio of amantadine renal clearance to apparent oral plasma clearance was 0 . 79 ± 0 . 17 ( mean ± SD ) .
The volume of distribution determined after the intravenous administration of amantadine to 15 healthy subjects was 3 to 8 L / kg , suggesting tissue binding .
Amantadine , after single oral 200 mg doses to 6 healthy young subjects and to 6 healthy elderly subjects has been found in nasal mucus at mean ± SD concentrations of 0 . 15 ± 0 . 16 , 0 . 28 ± 0 . 26 , and 0 . 39 ± 0 . 34 µg / g at 1 , 4 , and 8 hours after dosing , respectively .
These concentrations represented 31 ± 33 % , 59 ± 61 % , and 95 ± 86 % of the corresponding plasma amantadine concentrations .
Amantadine is approximately 67 % bound to plasma proteins over a concentration range of 0 . 1 to 2 . 0 µg / mL .
Following the administration of amantadine 100 mg as a single dose , the mean ± SD red blood cell to plasma ratio ranged from 2 . 7 ± 0 . 5 in 6 healthy subjects to 1 . 4 ± 0 . 2 in 8 patients with renal insufficiency .
The apparent oral plasma clearance of amantadine is reduced and the plasma half - life and plasma concentrations are increased in healthy elderly individuals age 60 and older .
After single dose administration of 25 to 75 mg to 7 healthy , elderly male volunteers , the apparent plasma clearance of amantadine was 0 . 10 ± 0 . 04 L / hr / kg ( range 0 . 06 to 0 . 17 L / hr / kg ) and the half - life was 29 ± 7 hours ( range 20 to 41 hours ) .
Whether these changes are due to decline in renal function or other age related factors is not known .
In a study of young healthy subjects ( n = 20 ) , mean renal clearance of amantadine , normalized for body mass index , was 1 . 5 fold higher in males compared to females ( p < 0 . 032 ) .
Compared with otherwise healthy adult individuals , the clearance of amantadine is significantly reduced in adult patients with renal insufficiency .
The elimination half - life increases two to three fold or greater when creatinine clearance is less than 40 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and averages eight days in patients on chronic maintenance hemodialysis .
Amantadine is removed in negligible amounts by hemodialysis .
The pH of the urine has been reported to influence the excretion rate of amantadine .
Since the excretion rate of amantadine increases rapidly when the urine is acidic , the administration of urine acidifying drugs may increase the elimination of the drug from the body .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine hydrochloride syrup ( amantadine hydrochloride oral solution , USP ) is indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus .
Amantadine hydrochloride is also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug - induced extrapyramidal reactions .
Influenza A ProphylaxisAmantadine hydrochloride is indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection when early vaccination is not feasible or when the vaccine is contraindicated or not available .
In the prophylaxis of influenza , early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control ' s Immunization Practices Advisory Committee is the method of choice .
Because amantadine does not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection , individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses .
Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak , amantadine prophylaxis should be considered for the 2 - to 4 - week time period required to develop an antibody response .
Influenza A TreatmentAmantadine hydrochloride is also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness .
There are no well - controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with amantadine will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients .
There is no clinical evidence indicating that amantadine is effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains .
Parkinson ' s Disease / SyndromeAmantadine is indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson ' s disease ( Paralysis Agitans ) , postencephalitic parkinsonism , and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication .
It is indicated in those elderly patients believed to develop parkinsonism in association with cerebral arteriosclerosis .
In the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease , amantadine is less effective than levodopa , ( - ) - 3 - ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) - L - alanine , and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established .
Drug - Induced Extrapyramidal ReactionsAmantadine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of drug - induced extrapyramidal reactions .
Although anticholinergic - type side effects have been noted with amantadine when used in patients with drug - induced extrapyramidal reactions , there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Amantadine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in amantadine hydrochloride syrup .
WARNINGS DeathsDeaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine .
The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram .
Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine .
Drug overdose has resulted in cardiac , respiratory , renal or central nervous system toxicity .
Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia , tachycardia and hypertension ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Suicide AttemptsSuicide attempts , some of which have been fatal , have been reported in patients treated with amantadine , many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis .
The incidence of suicide attempts is not known and the pathophysiologic mechanism is not understood .
Suicide attempts and suicidal ideation have been reported in patients with and without prior history of psychiatric illness .
Amantadine can exacerbate mental problems in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or substance abuse .
Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states which include disorientation , confusion , depression , personality changes , agitation , aggressive behavior , hallucinations , paranoia , other psychotic reactions , and somnolence or insomnia .
Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects , caution should be observed when prescribing amantadine to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects , or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment .
CNS EffectsPatients with a history of epilepsy or other " seizures " should be observed closely for possible increased seizure activity .
Patients receiving amantadine who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important .
OtherPatients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving amantadine .
Patients with Parkinson ' s disease improving on amantadine should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously , consistent with other medical considerations , such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis .
Because amantadine has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis , it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma .
PRECAUTIONS Amantadine should not be discontinued abruptly in patients with Parkinson ' s disease since a few patients have experienced a parkinsonian crisis , i . e . , a sudden marked clinical deterioration , when this medication was suddenly stopped .
The dose of anticholinergic drugs or of amantadine should be reduced if atropine - like effects appear when these drugs are used concurrently .
Abrupt discontinuation may also precipitate delirium , agitation , delusions , hallucinations , paranoid reaction , stupor , anxiety , depression and slurred speech .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) Sporadic cases of possible Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) have been reported in association with dose reduction or withdrawal of amantadine therapy .
Therefore , patients should be observed carefully when the dosage of amantadine is reduced abruptly or discontinued , especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics .
NMS is an uncommon but life - threatening syndrome characterized by fever or hyperthermia ; neurologic findings including muscle rigidity , involuntary movements , altered consciousness ; mental status changes ; other disturbances such as autonomic dysfunction , tachycardia , tachypnea , hyper - or hypotension ; laboratory findings such as creatine phosphokinase elevation , leukocytosis , myoglobinuria , and increased serum myoglobin .
The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients .
Considering NMS as a possible diagnosis and ruling out other acute illnesses ( e . g . , pneumonia , systemic infection , etc . ) is essential .
This may be especially complex if the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms ( EPS ) .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , drug fever and primary central nervous system ( CNS ) pathology .
The management of NMS should include : 1 ) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring , and 2 ) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
Dopamine agonists , such as bromocriptine , and muscle relaxants , such as dantrolene are often used in the treatment of NMS , however , their effectiveness has not been demonstrated in controlled studies .
Renal diseaseBecause amantadine is mainly excreted in the urine , it accumulates in the plasma and in the body when renal function declines .
Thus , the dose of amantadine should be reduced in patients with renal impairment and in individuals who are 65 years of age or older ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ) .
Liver diseaseCare should be excercised when administering amantadine to patients with liver disease .
Rare instances of reversible elevation of liver enzymes have been reported in patients receiving amantadine , though a specific relationship between the drug and such changes has not been established .
OtherThe dose of amantadine may need careful adjustment in patients with congestive heart failure , peripheral edema , or orthostatic hypotension .
Care should be exercised when administering amantadine to patients with a history of recurrent eczematoid rash , or to patients with psychosis or severe psychoneurosis not controlled by chemotherapeutic agents .
Serious bacterial infections may begin with influenza - like symptoms or may coexist with or occur as complications during the course of influenza .
Amantadine has not been shown to prevent such complications .
Information for PatientsPatients should be advised of the following information : Blurry vision and / or impaired mental acuity may occur .
Gradually increase physical activity as the symptoms of Parkinson ' s disease improve .
Avoid excessive alcohol usage , since it may increase the potential for CNS effects such as dizziness , confusion , lightheadedness and orthostatic hypotension .
Avoid getting up suddenly from a sitting or lying position .
If dizziness or lightheadedness occurs , notify physician .
Notify physician if mood / mental changes , swelling of extremities , difficulty urinating and / or shortness of breath occur .
Do not take more medication than prescribed because of the risk of overdose .
If there is no improvement in a few days , or if medication appears less effective after a few weeks , discuss with a physician .
Consult physician before discontinuing medication .
Seek medical attention immediately if it is suspected that an overdose of medication has been taken .
Drug InteractionsCareful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system stimulants .
Agents with anticholinergic properties may potentiate the anticholinergic - like side effects of amantadine .
Coadministration of thioridazine has been reported to worsen the tremor in elderly patients with Parkinson ' s disease , however , it is not known if other phenothiazines produce a similar response .
Coadministration of triamterene / hydrochlorothiazide capsules resulted in a higher plasma amantadine concentration in a 61 - year - old man receiving amantadine 100 mg TID for Parkinson ' s disease . 1 It is not known which of the components of triamterene / hydrochlorothiazide capsules contributed to the observation or if related drugs produce a similar response .
Coadministration of quinine or quinidine with amantadine was shown to reduce the renal clearance of amantadine by about 30 % .
The concurrent use of amantadine with live attenuated influenza vaccine ( LAIV ) intranasal has not been evaluated .
However , because of the potential for interference between these products , LAIV should not be administered within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of amantadine , unless medically indicated .
The concern about possible interference arises from the potential for antiviral drugs to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus .
Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of amantadine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term in vivo animal studies designed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of amantadine have not been performed .
In several in vitro assays for gene mutation , amantadine did not increase the number of spontaneously observed mutations in four strains of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames Test ) or in a mammalian cell line ( Chinese Hamster Ovary cells ) when incubations were performed either with or without a liver metabolic activation extract .
Further , there was no evidence of chromosome damage observed in an in vitro test using freshly derived and stimulated human peripheral blood lymphocytes ( with and without metabolic activation ) or in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus test ( 140 – 550 mg / kg ; estimated human equivalent doses of 11 . 7 – 45 . 8 mg / kg based on body surface area conversion ) .
The effect of amantadine on fertility has not been adequately tested , that is , in a study conducted under Good Laboratory Practice ( GLP ) and according to current recommended methodology .
In a three litter , non - GLP , reproduction study in rats , amantadine at a dose of 32 mg / kg / day ( equal to the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) administered to both males and females slightly impaired fertility .
There were no effects on fertility at a dose level of 10 mg / kg / day ( or 0 . 3 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) ; intermediate doses were not tested .
Failed fertility has been reported during human in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) when the sperm donor ingested amantadine 2 weeks prior to , and during the IVF cycle .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category CThe effect of amantadine on embryofetal and peri - postnatal development has not been adequately tested , that is , in studies conducted under Good Laboratory Practice ( GLP ) and according to current recommended methodology .
However , in two non - GLP studies in rats in which females were dosed from 5 days prior to mating to Day 6 of gestation or on Days 7 – 14 of gestation , amantadine produced increases in embryonic death at an oral dose of 100 mg / kg ( or 3 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In the non - GLP rat study in which females were dosed on Days 7 – 14 of gestation , there was a marked increase in severe visceral and skeletal malformations at oral doses of 50 and 100 mg / kg ( or 1 . 5 and 3 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no - effect dose for teratogenicity was 37 mg / kg ( equal to the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The safety margins reported may not accurately reflect the risk considering the questionable quality of the study on which they are based .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Human data regarding teratogenicity after maternal use of amantadine is scarce .
Tetralogy of Fallot and tibial hemimelia ( normal karyotype ) occurred in an infant exposed to amantadine during the first trimester of pregnancy ( 100 mg P . O . for 7 days during the 6 th and 7 th week of gestation ) .
Cardiovascular maldevelopment ( single ventricle with pulmonary atresia ) was associated with maternal exposure to amantadine ( 100 mg / d ) administered during the first 2 weeks of pregnancy .
Amantadine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Nursing MothersAmantadine is excreted in human milk .
Use is not recommended in nursing mothers .
Pediatric UseThe safety and efficacy of amantadine hydrochloride in newborn infants and infants below the age of 1 year have not been established .
Usage in the ElderlyBecause amantadine hydrochloride is primarily excreted in the urine , it accumulates in the plasma and in the body when renal function declines .
Thus , the dose of amantadine should be reduced in patients with renal impairment and in individuals who are 65 years of age or older .
The dose of amantadine may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure , peripheral edema , or orthostatic hypotension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions reported most frequently at the recommended dose of amantadine ( 5 – 10 % ) are : nausea , dizziness ( lightheadedness ) , and insomnia .
Less frequently ( 1 – 5 % ) reported adverse reactions are : depression , anxiety and irritability , hallucinations , confusion , anorexia , dry mouth , constipation , ataxia , livedo reticularis , peripheral edema , orthostatic hypotension , headache , somnolence , nervousness , dream abnormality , agitation , dry nose , diarrhea and fatigue .
Infrequently ( 0 . 1 – 1 % ) occurring adverse reactions are : congestive heart failure , psychosis , urinary retention , dyspnea , skin rash , vomiting , weakness , slurred speech , euphoria , thinking abnormality , amnesia , hyperkinesia , hypertension , decreased libido , and visual disturbance , including punctate subepithelial or other corneal opacity , corneal edema , decreased visual acuity , sensitivity to light , and optic nerve palsy .
Rare ( less than 0 . 1 % ) occurring adverse reactions are : instances of convulsion , leukopenia , neutropenia , eczematoid dermatitis , oculogyric episodes , suicidal attempt , suicide , and suicidal ideation ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other adverse reactions reported during postmarketing experience with amantadine usage include : Nervous System / Psychiatric : coma , stupor , delirium , hypokinesia , hypertonia , delusions , aggressive behavior , paranoid reaction , manic reaction , involuntary muscle contractions , gait abnormalities , paresthesia , EEG changes , and tremor .
Abrupt discontinuation may also precipitate delirium , agitation , delusions , hallucinations , paranoid reaction , stupor , anxiety , depression and slurred speech ; Cardiovascular : cardiac arrest , arrhythmias including malignant arrhythmias , hypotension , and tachycardia ; Respiratory : acute respiratory failure , pulmonary edema , and tachypnea ; Gastrointestinal : dysphagia ; Hemotologic : leukocytosis and agranulocytosis ; Special Senses : keratitis and mydriasis ; Skin and Appendages : pruritus and diaphoresis ; Miscellaneous : neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( see WARNINGS ) , allergic reactions including anaphylactic reactions , edema , and fever ; Laboratory Test : elevated : CPK , BUN , serum creatinine , alkaline phosphatase , LDH , bilirubin , GGT , SGOT , and SGPT .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine .
The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram .
Because some patients have attempted suicide by overdosing with amantadine , prescriptions should be written for the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management .
Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine .
Drug overdose has resulted in cardiac , respiratory , renal or central nervous system toxicity .
Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia , tachycardia and hypertension .
Pulmonary edema and respiratory distress ( including adult respiratory distress syndrome — ARDS ) have been reported ; renal dysfunction including increased BUN , decreased creatinine clearance and renal insufficiency can occur .
Central nervous system effects that have been reported include insomnia , anxiety , agitation , aggressive behavior , hypertonia , hyperkinesia , ataxia , gait abnormality , tremor , confusion , disorientation , depersonalization , fear , delirium , hallucinations , psychotic reactions , lethargy , somnolence and coma .
Seizures may be exacerbated in patients with prior history of seizure disorders .
Hyperthermia has also been observed in cases where a drug overdose has occurred .
There is no specific antidote for an overdose of amantadine .
However , slowly administered intravenous physostigmine in 1 and 2 mg doses in an adult2 at 1 - to 2 - hour intervals and 0 . 5 mg doses in a child3 at 5 - to 10 - minute intervals up to a maximum of 2 mg / hour have been reported to be effective in the control of central nervous system toxicity caused by amantadine hydrochloride .
For acute overdosing , general supportive measures should be employed along with immediate gastric lavage or induction of emesis .
Fluids should be forced , and if necessary , given intravenously .
The pH of the urine has been reported to influence the excretion rate of amantadine .
Since the excretion rate of amantadine increases rapidly when the urine is acidic , the administration of urine acidifying drugs may increase the elimination of the drug from the body .
The blood pressure , pulse , respiration and temperature should be monitored .
The patient should be observed for hyperactivity and convulsions ; if required , sedation , and anticonvulsant therapy should be administered .
The patient should be observed for the possible development of arrhythmias and hypotension ; if required , appropriate antiarrhythmic and antihypotensive therapy should be given .
Electrocardiographic monitoring may be required after ingestion , since malignant tachyarrhythmias can appear after overdose .
Care should be excercised when administering adrenergic agents , such as isoproterenol , to patients with an amantadine overdose , since the dopaminergic activity of amantadine has been reported to induce malignant arrhythmias .
The blood electrolytes , urine pH and urinary output should be monitored .
If there is no record of recent voiding , catheterization should be done .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of amantadine hydrochloride may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure , peripheral edema , orthostatic hypotension , or impaired renal function ( see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ) .
Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus IllnessAdultThe adult daily dosage of amantadine hydrochloride is 200 mg ( four teaspoonfuls of syrup ) as a single daily dose .
The daily dosage may be split into two teaspoonfuls of syrup twice a day .
If central nervous system effects develop in once - a - day dosage , a split dosage schedule may reduce such complaints .
In persons 65 years of age or older , the daily dosage of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg .
A 100 mg daily dose has also been shown in experimental challenge studies to be effective as prophylaxis in healthy adults who are not at high risk for influenza - related complications .
However , it has not been demonstrated that a 100 mg daily dose is as effective as a 200 mg daily dose for prophylaxis , nor has the 100 mg daily dose been studied in the treatment of acute influenza illness .
In recent clinical trials , the incidence of central nervous system ( CNS ) side effects associated with the 100 mg daily dose was at or near the level of placebo .
The 100 mg dose is recommended for persons who have demonstrated intolerance to 200 mg of amantadine hydrochloride daily because of CNS or other toxicities .
Pediatric Patients1 yr .
– 9 yrs .
of ageThe total daily dose should be calculated on the basis of 2 to 4 mg / lb / day ( 4 . 4 to 8 . 8 mg / kg / day ) , but not to exceed 150 mg per day .
9 yrs .
– 12 yrs .
of ageThe total daily dose is 200 mg given as two teaspoonfuls of syrup twice a day .
The 100 mg daily dose has not been studied in this pediatric population .
Therefore , there are no data which demonstrate that this dose is as effective as or is safer than the 200 mg daily dose in this patient population .
Prophylactic dosing should be started in anticipation of an influenza A outbreak and before or after contact with individuals with influenza A virus respiratory tract illness .
Amantadine should be continued daily for at least 10 days following a known exposure .
If amantadine is used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop , then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given .
When inactivated influenza A virus vaccine is unavailable or contraindicated , amantadine should be administered for the duration of known influenza A in the community because of repeated and unknown exposure .
Treatment of influenza A virus illness should be started as soon as possible , preferably within 24 to 48 hours after onset of signs and symptoms , and should be continued for 24 to 48 hours after the disappearance of signs and symptoms .
Dosage for ParkinsonismAdultThe usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day when used alone .
Amantadine has an onset of action usually within 48 hours .
The initial dose of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg daily for patients with serious associated medical illnesses or who are receiving high doses of other antiparkinson drugs .
After one to several weeks at 100 mg once daily , the dose may be increased to 100 mg twice daily , if necessary .
Occasionally , patients whose responses are not optimal with amantadine hydrochloride at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 400 mg daily in divided doses .
However , such patients should be supervised closely by their physicians .
Patients initially deriving benefit from amantadine not uncommonly experience a fall - off of effectiveness after a few months .
Benefit may be regained by increasing the dose to 300 mg daily .
Alternatively , temporary discontinuation of amantadine for several weeks , followed by reinitiation of the drug , may result in regaining benefit in some patients .
A decision to use other antiparkinson drugs may be necessary .
Dosage for Concomitant TherapySome patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to amantadine .
When amantadine or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit , concomitant use may produce additional benefit .
When amantadine and levodopa are initiated concurrently , the patient can exhibit rapid therapeutic benefits .
Amantadine should be held constant at 100 mg daily or twice daily while the daily dose of levodopa is gradually increased to optimal benefit .
When amantadine is added to optimal well - tolerated doses of levodopa , additional benefit may result , including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone .
Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of amantadine .
Dosage for Drug - Induced Extrapyramidal ReactionsAdultThe usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day .
Occasionally , patients whose responses are not optimal with amantadine hydrochloride at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 300 mg daily in divided doses .
Dosage for Impaired Renal FunctionDepending upon creatinine clearance , the following dosage adjustments are recommended : CREATININE CLEARANCE ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE DOSAGE 30 – 50 200 mg 1 st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 – 29 200 mg 1 st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days < 15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Amantadine Hydrochloride Syrup ( amantadine hydrochloride oral solution , USP ) 50 mg / 5 mL is a colorless to pale yellow , raspberry - flavored syrup available in : 1 Pint ( 473 mL ) bottles NDC 54868 - 3216 - 0 Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Rx Only REFERENCES 1 W .
W . Wilson and A . H . Rajput , Amantadine - Dyazide Interaction , Can .
Med .
Assoc . J . 129 : 974 – 975 , 1983 .
2 D .
F . Casey , N . Engl .
J . Med .
298 : 516 , 1978 .
3 C .
D . Berkowitz , J . Pediatr .
95 : 144 , 1979 .
Product No . : 8093 Manufactured By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 A50 - 8093 - 16 REV . 04 - 07 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Amantadine Hydrochloride Syrup , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
