1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALOXI capsules are indicated in adults for the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
ALOXI is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist indicated in adults for prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of ALOXI capsules in adults is 0 . 5 mg administered orally approximately one hour prior to the start of chemotherapy .
ALOXI can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• The recommended adult dosage is 0 . 5 mg administered orally approximately one hour prior to the start of chemotherapy .
( 2 ) • ALOXI capsules can be taken with or without food .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 0 . 5 mg palonosetron supplied in a light beige opaque soft gelatin capsule Capsules : 0 . 5 mg palonosetron 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ALOXI is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity to palonosetron [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to palonosetron .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock : reported in patients treated with intravenous palonosetron HCl with or without known hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
If symptoms occur , discontinue ALOXI and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serotonin syndrome : reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone , but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , have been reported with administration of intravenous palonosetron HCl [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
These reactions occurred in patients with or without known hypersensitivity to other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue ALOXI and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Do not reinitiate ALOXI in patients who have previously experienced symptoms of hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of ALOXI and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue ALOXI and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if ALOXI is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious or otherwise clinically significant adverse reactions reported in other sections of labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are : headache , constipation and fatigue .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact HELSINN at 1 - 844 - 357 - 4668 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy , 161 adult patients received a single oral dose of ALOXI 0 .
5 mg .
The most common adverse reactions reported in at least 2 % of patients in two clinical trials were headache ( 4 % ) and constipation ( 1 % ) .
In other clinical trials , fatigue was also reported in 1 % of patients .
Less common adverse reactions , reported in less than 1 % , were : • Blood and Lymphatic System : anemia .
• Cardiovascular : hypertension , transient arrhythmia , first degree atrioventricular block , second degree atrioventricular block , QTc prolongation .
• Hearing and Labyrinth : motion sickness .
• Eye : eye swelling .
• Gastrointestinal System : gastritis , nausea , vomiting .
• General : fatigue , chills , pyrexia .
• Infections : sinusitis .
• Liver : transient , asymptomatic increases in bilirubin .
• Nutrition : anorexia .
• Musculoskeletal : joint stiffness , myalgia , pain in extremity .
• Nervous System : postural dizziness , dysgeusia .
• Psychiatric : insomnia .
• Respiratory System : dyspnea , epistaxis .
• Skin : generalized pruritus , erythema , alopecia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of palonosetron HCl .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Hypersensitivity reactions : including dyspnea , bronchospasm , swelling / edema , erythema , pruritus , rash , urticarial , anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock with intravenous administration of palonosetron HCl [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Serotonergic Drugs : Monitor for serotonin syndrome ; if symptoms occur , discontinue ALOXI and initiate supportive treatment .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue ALOXI and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on palonosetron HCl use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed with the administration of oral palonosetron HCl during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 921 and 1 , 841 times the recommended human oral dose in rats and rabbits , respectively ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed in pregnant rats given oral palonosetron HCl at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 921 times the recommended human oral dose based on body surface area ) or pregnant rabbits given oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 841 times the recommended human oral dose based on body surface area ) during the period of organogenesis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of palonosetron in human milk , the effects of palonosetron on the breastfed infant , or the effects of palonosetron on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ALOXI and any potential adverse effect on the breastfed infant from palonosetron or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in patients below the age of 18 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of adult cancer patients of oral palonosetron HCl , 181 were 65 years of age and over .
The number of geriatric patients receiving the 0 . 5 mg recommended dose of ALOXI capsules was insufficient to draw any efficacy or safety conclusions .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote to palonosetron .
Overdose should be managed with supportive care .
Dialysis studies have not been performed , however , due to the large volume of distribution , dialysis is unlikely to be an effective treatment for palonosetron overdose .
A single oral dose of palonosetron HCl at 500 mg / kg in rats and 100 mg / kg in dogs ( 7 , 673 and 5 , 115 times the recommended human oral dose , respectively , based on body surface area ) was lethal .
The major signs of toxicity included convulsions , labored breathing , and salivation .
11 DESCRIPTION ALOXI ( palonosetron HCl ) capsules contain palonosetron as palonosetron HCl , an antiemetic and antinauseant agent .
It is a serotonin subtype 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor .
Chemically , palonosetron hydrochloride is : ( 3 aS ) - 2 - [ ( S ) - 1 - Azabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] oct - 3 - yl ] - 2 , 3 , 3 a , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexahydro - 1 - oxo - 1 H - benz [ de ] isoquinoline hydrochloride .
The empirical formula is C19H24N2O . HCl , with a molecular weight of 332 . 87 .
Palonosetron hydrochloride exists as a single isomer and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Palonosetron hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in propylene glycol , and slightly soluble in ethanol and 2 - propanol .
Each light beige opaque soft gelatin ALOXI capsule contains 0 . 5 mg palonosetron ( equivalent to 0 . 56 mg of palonosetron HCl ) .
Inactive ingredients are : mono - and di - glycerides of capryl / capric acid , glycerin , polyglyceryl oleate , water , and butylated hydroxyanisole .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Palonosetron is a 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little or no affinity for other receptors .
Cancer chemotherapy may be associated with a high incidence of nausea and vomiting , particularly when certain agents , such as cisplatin , are used .
5 - HT3 receptors are located on the nerve terminals of the vagus in the periphery and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is thought that chemotherapeutic agents produce nausea and vomiting by releasing serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine and that the released serotonin then activates 5 - HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In non - clinical studies palonosetron possesses the ability to block ion channels involved in ventricular de - and re - polarization and to prolong action potential duration .
At a dose of 4 . 5 times the recommended dose , ALOXI capsules do not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
Clinical trials revealed that oral palonosetron HCl had comparable effects on blood pressure , heart rate , and ECG parameters as intravenous palonosetron HCl .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration , palonosetron is well absorbed with absolute bioavailability reaching 97 % .
After single oral doses using buffered solution , mean maximum palonosetron concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC0 - ∞ ) were dose proportional over the dose range of 3 to 80 mcg / kg in healthy subjects .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters after a single oral dose of 0 . 5 mg ALOXI are compared across studies in healthy subjects and cancer patients ( Table 1 ) .
The AUC was 30 % higher in cancer patients than in healthy subjects .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters1 of Palonosetron after a Single Oral Dose of 0 . 5 mg ALOXI in Healthy Subjects and Cancer Patients Parameter Healthy Subjects ( n = 36 ) Cancer Patients ( n = 12 ) Mean ( ± Standard Deviation ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 0 . 81 ± 0 . 17 0 . 93 ± 0 . 34 Tmax ( hours ) 5 . 1 ± 1 . 7 5 . 1 ± 5 . 9 AUC ∞ ( ng · h / mL ) 38 . 2 ± 11 . 7 49 . 7 ± 12 . 2 t1 / 2 ( hours ) 37 ± 12 48 ± 19 1 a cross - study comparison Effect of Food A high fat meal did not affect the Cmax and AUC of oral palonosetron [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Distribution Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8 . 3 ± 2 . 5 L / kg .
Approximately 62 % of palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination Following administration of a single oral 0 . 75 mg dose of [ 14 C ] - palonosetron to six healthy subjects , 85 % to 93 % of the total radioactivity was excreted in urine , and 5 % to 8 % was eliminated in feces .
The amount of unchanged palonosetron excreted in the urine represented approximately 40 % of the administered dose .
In healthy subjects given ALOXI Capsules 0 . 5 mg , the terminal elimination half - life ( t ½ ) of palonosetron was 37 ± 12 hours ( mean ± SD ) , and in cancer patients , t ½ was 48 ± 19 hours .
After a single - dose of approximately 0 . 75 mg intravenous palonosetron , the total body clearance of palonosetron in healthy subjects was 160 ± 35 mL / h / kg ( mean ± SD ) and renal clearance was 66 . 5 ± 18 . 2 mL / h / kg .
Metabolism Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50 % metabolized to form two primary metabolites : N - oxide - palonosetron and 6 - S - hydroxy - palonosetron .
These metabolites each have less than 1 % of the 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent , CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in the metabolism of palonosetron .
However , clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates .
Excretion Palonosetron is partially renally eliminated from the body .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients In a cross - study comparison , after a single oral 0 . 75 mg dose of ALOXI capsules ( 1 . 5 times the recommended dose ) , the systemic exposure of palonosetron ( AUC ) was similar , but mean Cmax was 15 % lower in healthy elderly subjects 65 years of age and older compared to subjects less than 65 years of age .
This decrease in exposure is not considered to be clinically meaningful .
Male and Female Patients In female subjects ( n = 18 ) , the mean AUC was 35 % higher and the mean Cmax was 26 % higher than in male subjects ( n = 18 ) .
This increase in exposure in female subjects is not considered clinically meaningful .
Patients with Renal Impairment Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters .
Total systemic exposure to palonosetron following administration of intravenous palonosetron HCl increased by approximately 28 % in patients with severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects .
This increase is not considered clinically meaningful .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to the healthy subjects .
Racial or Ethnic Groups The pharmacokinetics of palonosetron were characterized in 32 healthy Japanese male subjects administered an oral solution of palonosetron HCl over a dose range of 3 to 90 mcg / kg .
The apparent total body clearance was 26 % higher in Japanese males than in white males based on a cross - study comparison ; however , this increase is not considered to be clinically meaningful .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies indicated that palonosetron is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 / 5 ( CYP2C19 was not investigated ) nor does it induce the activity of CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 / 5 .
Therefore , the potential for clinically significant drug interactions with palonosetron appears to be low .
Metoclopramide A study in healthy subjects involving a single 0 . 75 mg intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl and steady state oral metoclopramide ( 10 mg four times daily ) demonstrated no significant pharmacokinetic interaction .
Chemotherapeutic Agents , Corticosteroids , Analgesics , Drugs for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders , Antiemetics / Antinauseants In controlled clinical trials , ALOXI capsules have been safely administered with chemotherapeutic agents , systemic corticosteroids , analgesics , and drugs for gastrointestinal disorders including functional gastrointestinal disorders , acid - related disorders , and antiemetics / antinauseants .
Antacids Concomitant administration of an antacid ( Maalox ® liquid 30 mL ) had no effect on the oral absorption or pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of 0 . 75 mg palonosetron HCl in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , animals were treated with oral doses of palonosetron HCl at 10 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day .
Treatment with palonosetron was not tumorigenic .
The highest tested dose produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( Plasma AUC ) of about 90 to 173 times the human exposure ( AUC = 49 . 7 ng · h / mL ) at the recommended oral dose of 0 . 5 mg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , male and female rats were treated with oral doses of 15 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day and 15 , 45 and 90 mg / kg / day , respectively .
The highest doses produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( Plasma AUC ) of 82 and 185 times the human exposure at the recommended dose .
Treatment with palonosetron produced increased incidences of adrenal benign pheochromocytoma and combined benign and malignant pheochromocytoma , increased incidences of pancreatic Islet cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma and pituitary adenoma in male rats .
In female rats , it produced hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma and increased the incidences of thyroid C - cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma .
Palonosetron was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovarian cell ( CHO / HGPRT ) forward mutation test , the ex vivo hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test or the mouse micronucleus test .
It was , however , positive for clastogenic effects in the Chinese hamster ovarian ( CHO ) cell chromosomal aberration test .
Palonosetron HCl at oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( about 921 times the recommended human oral dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Study 1 was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind active control clinical trial of 635 patients set to receive moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
A single oral dose of 0 . 25 mg , 0 . 5 mg , or 0 . 75 mg ALOXI capsules given one hour prior to chemotherapy was compared to a single intravenous dose of 0 . 25 mg palonosetron HCl given 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
Patients were randomized to either dexamethasone or placebo in addition to their assigned treatment .
The majority of patients in the study were women ( 73 % ) , white ( 69 % ) , and naïve to previous chemotherapy ( 59 % ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint was Complete Response ( no emetic episodes and no rescue medication ) assessed in the acute phase ( 0 to 24 hours ) .
A key secondary efficacy endpoint was Complete Response assessed in the delayed phase ( 24 to 120 hours ) .
Other secondary endpoints included Complete Response for the acute plus delayed phases ( 0 - 120 hours ) and “ no nausea ” for the acute and delayed phases .
Efficacy was based on demonstrating non - inferiority of oral palonosetron doses compared to the approved intravenous product .
Non - inferiority criteria were met if the lower bound of the two - sided 98 . 3 % confidence interval for the difference in complete response rates of oral palonosetron dose minus approved intravenous product was larger than - 15 % .
The non - inferiority margin was 15 % .
Efficacy Results As shown in Table 2 , ALOXI capsules 0 . 5 mg demonstrated non - inferiority to the active comparator during the 0 to 24 hour time interval ; however , for the 24 to 120 hour time period , non - inferiority was not shown .
The additional two oral palonosetron dose levels showed similar results .
Table 2 : Proportion of Patients Achieving Complete Response Post - Chemotherapy Time Period ALOXI capsules 0 . 5 mg ( N = 160 ) Intravenous Palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg ( N = 162 ) Difference [ Two - sided 98 . 3 % Confidence Interval ] * : Oral ALOXI capsules minus Intravenous Comparator Acute Phase ( 0 to 24 hours ) 76 . 3 % 70 . 4 % 5 . 9 % [ - 6 . 5 % , 18 . 2 % ] Delayed Phase ( 24 to 120 hours ) 62 . 5 % 65 . 4 % - 2 . 9 % [ - 16 . 3 % , 10 . 5 % ] * To adjust for multiplicity of treatment groups , a lower - bound of a two - sided 98 . 3 % confidence interval was used to compare to - 15 % , the negative value of the non - inferiority margin .
As indicated in the data above , analysis of the key secondary endpoint showed that a single dose of ALOXI capsules 0 . 5 mg was numerically similar to a single dose of intravenous palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg , however , statistical non - inferiority was not demonstrated .
For ALOXI capsules 0 . 5 mg versus intravenous palonosetron HCl 0 . 25 mg , the proportion of patients with complete response in the acute plus delayed phase ( 0 to 120 hours ) was 58 . 8 % versus 59 . 3 % , respectively .
The proportions of patients with no nausea in the acute phase ( 0 to 24 hours ) and delayed phase ( 24 to 120 hours ) were also numerically similar between oral and intravenous doses .
Study 2 was a multicenter , open label , repeat cycle study performed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of single dose oral ALOXI capsules 0 . 75 mg in cancer patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy .
An ALOXI capsule was given to 217 cancer patients in 654 chemotherapy cycles one hour before the start of chemotherapy .
Approximately 74 % of patients also received single dose oral or intravenous dexamethasone 30 minutes before chemotherapy .
Complete Response was not formally evaluated for the repeat cycle application .
However , in general , the antiemetic effect for the 0 to 24 hour interval was similar throughout the consecutively repeated cycles .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ALOXI ( palonosetron HCl ) capsules are supplied as 0 . 5 mg palonosetron in light beige opaque soft gelatin capsules , five capsules per bottle , each bottle packaged in a small carton ( NDC # 69639 - 104 - 05 ) .
Storage • Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º to 30ºC ( 59º to 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labelling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , have been reported in patients with intravenous administration of palonosetron HCl .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur with administration of ALOXI capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of ALOXI capsules and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Jointly manufactured by Catalent Pharma Solutions , Somerset NJ and Philadelphia PA , USA , and Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals , Dublin , Ireland Manufactured for Helsinn Healthcare SA , Switzerland Distributed by Helsinn Therapeutics Inc . , Iselin , NJ 08830 ALOXI ® is a registered trademark of Helsinn Healthcare SA , Lugano , Switzerland PATIENT INFORMATION ALOXI ® ( Ah - lock - see ) ( palonosetron HCl ) capsules , for oral use Read this Patient Information before you start taking ALOXI and each time you refill your prescription for ALOXI .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is ALOXI ?
ALOXI is a prescription medicine called an “ antiemetic . ”
ALOXI is a prescription medicine used in adults to help prevent the nausea and vomiting that happens with certain anti - cancer medicines ( chemotherapy ) .
It is not known if ALOXI is safe and effective in people under the age of 18 years .
Who should not take ALOXI ?
Do not take ALOXI if you are allergic to palonosetron or any of the ingredients in ALOXI .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in ALOXI .
What should I tell my doctor before taking ALOXI ?
Before taking ALOXI , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had an allergic reaction to another medicine for nausea or vomiting • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ALOXI will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ALOXI passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby or your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take ALOXI .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescriptions and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
ALOXI and certain other medicines can affect each other , causing serious side effects .
How should I take ALOXI ?
• Take ALOXI exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Take one ALOXI Capsule by mouth about one hour before you get your anti - cancer medicine ( chemotherapy ) .
• ALOXI can be taken with or without food .
• If you take too much ALOXI , tell your doctor right away .
What are the possible side effects of ALOXI ?
ALOXI may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions , such as anaphylaxis .
Get emergency medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms .
• hives • swollen face • breathing trouble • chest pain • Serotonin Syndrome .
A possible life threatening problem called serotonin syndrome can happen with medicines called 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , including ALOXI , especially when used with medicines used to treat depression and migraine headaches called serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) and certain other medicines .
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • agitation , seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , confusion , or coma • fast heartbeat or unusual and frequent changes in your blood pressure • dizziness , sweating , flushing , or fever • tremors , stiff muscles , muscle twitching , overactive reflexes , or loss of coordination • seizures • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea The most common side effects in adults who take ALOXI capsules include : headache and constipation .
These are not all the possible side effects of ALOXI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information the safe and effective use of ALOXI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use ALOXI or a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ALOXI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about ALOXI that is written for health professionals .
For more information call 1 - 844 - 357 - 4668 , or go to www . ALOXI . com .
How should I store ALOXI ?
• Store ALOXI at room temperature between of 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25ºC ) ..
• Keep ALOXI away from light .
Keep ALOXI out of the reach of children .
What are the ingredients in ALOXI ?
Active ingredient : palonosetron hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : Mono - glycerides and di - glycerides of capryl / capric acid , glycerin , polyglyceryl oleate , water , and butylated hydroxyanisole Jointly manufactured by Catalent Pharma Solutions , Somerset NJ and Philadelphia PA , USA , and Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals , Dublin , Ireland Manufactured for Helsinn Healthcare SA , Switzerland Distributed by Helsinn Therapeutics Inc . , Iselin , NJ 08830 ALOXI ® is a registered trademark of Helsinn Healthcare SA , Lugano , Switzerland This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised 04 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 69639 - 104 - 05 Aloxi ® palonosetron HCl capsules 0 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Aloxi ® palonosetron HCl capsules 0 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
