Active Ingredient Drug Facts Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti itch Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : • eczema • inset bites • cosmetics • psoriasis • detergents • soaps • poison ivy , oak • sumac • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily - children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching : adults - when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly - gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying - apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily - children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store between 59 ° and 86 ° F ( 15 ° and 30 ° C ) • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel , celeareth - 20 , cetyl alcohol , cetyl palitate , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , isodecyl neopentanoate , methyl paraben , purified water Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Ultra Strength Hydrocortisone Cream Fast Itch and Rash relief Helps relieve • Eczema • Seborrheic dermatitis • Psoriasis • Poison ivy • Poison oak • Poison sumac • Insect bites and more NET WT .
0 . 5 OZ .
( 14 g ) Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 48084 U . S . A . Code No . : MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
