BenzePro ™ Creamy Wash benzoyl peroxide 7 . 0 % PruGen , Inc .
Pharmaceuticals DESCRIPTION : BenzePrOTM Creamy Wash is intended for topical administration and contains Benzoyl Peroxide for use in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
Benzoyl Peroxide is an oxidizing agent that possesses antibacterial properties and is classified as a keratolytic .
Benzoyl Peroxide ( C14H10O4 ) is represented by the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of BenzePrOTM Creamy Wash contains 70 mg of Benzoyl Peroxide as microsphere particles ( via Curoxyl ® 42 ) in an emulsion based formulation consisting of : aloe , carbomer 940 , cetyl alcohol , disodium oleamido MEA - sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , glyceryl stearate / PEG - 100 stearate , glycerin , green tea , laureth - 12 , magnesium aluminum silicate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium coco - sulfate , sodium lauroamphoacetate , xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mechanism of action of Benzoyl Peroxide is not totally understood but its antibacterial activity against Propionibacterium acnes is thought to be a major mode of action .
In addition , patients treated with Benzoyl Peroxide show a reduction in lipids and free fatty acids , and mild desquamation ( drying and peeling activity ) with simultaneous reduction in comedones and acne lesions .
Little is known about the percutaneous penetration , metabolism , and excretion of Benzoyl Peroxide , although it has been shown that Benzoyl Peroxide absorbed by the skin is metabolized to benzoic acid and then excreted as benzoate in the urine .
There is no evidence of systemic toxicity caused by Benzoyl Peroxide in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : BenzePrOTM Creamy Wash is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : BenzePrOTM Creamy Wash is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS : Do not use if you : • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product : • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • irritation becomes severe PRECAUTIONS : For external use only .
If severe irritation develops , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
After reaction clears , treatment may often be resumed with less frequent application .
These preparations should not be used in or near the eyes or on mucous membranes .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : General : If accidental contact occurs with eyes , mouth , or mucous membranes , rinse with water .
Carcinogensesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Data from several studies employing a strain of mice that is highly susceptible to developing cancer suggest that Benzoyl Peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of these findings to humans is unknown .
Benzoyl Peroxide has not been found to be mutagenic ( Ames Test ) and there are no published data indicating it impairs fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Benzoyl Peroxide .
It is not known whether Benzoyl Peroxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzoyl Peroxide should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
There are no available data on the effect of Benzoyl Peroxide on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the unborn child .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Benzoyl Peroxide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic contact dermatitis and dryness have been reported with topical Benzoyl Peroxide therapy .
OVERDOSAGE : If excessive scaling , erythema or edema occurs , the use of this preparation should be discontinued .
To hasten resolution of the adverse effects , cool compresses may be used .
After symptoms and signs subside , a reduced dosage schedule may be cautiously tried if the reaction is judged to be due to excessive use and not allergenicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : BenzePrOTM Creamy Wash : Apply to affected areas once or twice a day , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If excessive drying occurs , control by rinsing off cleanser sooner or using less often .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
HOW SUPPLIED : BenzePrO ™ Creamy Wash is supplied in a 180 g bottle ( NDC 42546 - 017 - 18 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : PruGen , Inc .
Pharmaceuticals 18899 North Thompson Peak Parkway Scottsdale , AZ 85255 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 180 g Tube Label NDC 42546 - 017 - 18 Rx only PRUGEN ™ PHARMACEUTICALS BenzePrO ™ Creamy Wash benzoyl peroxide 7 . 0 % Net Wt 180 g Manufactured for : PruGen , Inc .
Pharmaceuticals Scottsdale , AZ 85255 www . prugen . com Rev 1 . 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
