Description Ansyr ™ Plastic Syringe Rx Only Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile solution of magnesium sulfate heptahydrate in Water for Injection , USP administered by the intravenous or intramuscular routes as an electrolyte replenisher or anticonvulsant .
Must be diluted before intravenous use .
May contain sulfuric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The pH is 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
The 50 % concentration has an osmolarity of 4 . 06 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded with the entire unit .
Magnesium Sulfate , USP heptahydrate is chemically designated mgSO4 • 7H2O with molecular weight of 246 . 48 and occurs as colorless crystals or white powder freely soluble in water .
The plastic syringe is molded from a specially formulated polypropylene .
Water permeates from inside the container at an extremely slow rate which will have an insignificant effect on solution concentration over the expected shelf life .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the syringe material .
Clinical Pharmacology Magnesium ( Mg + + ) is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
As a nutritional adjunct in hyperalimentation , the precise mechanism of action for magnesium is uncertain .
Early symptoms of hypomagnesemia ( less than 1 . 5 mEq / liter ) may develop as early as three to four days or within weeks .
Predominant deficiency effects are neurological , e . g . , muscle irritability , clonic twitching and tremors .
Hypocalcemia and hypokalemia often follow low serum levels of magnesium .
While there are large stores of magnesium present intracellularly and in the bones of adults , these stores are often not mobilized sufficiently to maintain plasma levels .
Parenteral magnesium therapy repairs the plasma deficit and causes deficiency symptoms and signs to cease .
Magnesium prevents or controls convulsions by blocking neuromuscular transmission and decreasing the amount of acetylcholine liberated at the end plate by the motor nerve impulse .
Magnesium is said to have a depressant effect on the central nervous system ( CNS ) , but it does not adversely affect the woman , fetus or neonate when used as directed in eclampsia or pre - eclampsia .
Normal plasma magnesium levels range from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mEq / liter .
As plasma magnesium rises above 4 mEq / liter , the deep tendon reflexes are first decreased and then disappear as the plasma level approaches 10 mEq / liter .
At this level respiratory paralysis may occur .
Heart block may also occur at this or lower plasma levels of magnesium .
Serum magnesium concentrations in excess of 12 mEq / L may be fatal .
Magnesium acts peripherally to produce vasodilation .
With low doses only flushing and sweating occur , but larger doses cause lowering of blood pressure .
The central and peripheral effects of magnesium poisoning are antagonized to some extent by intravenous administration of calcium .
Pharmacokinetics With intravenous administration the onset of anticonvulsant action is immediate and lasts about 30 minutes .
Following intramuscular administration the onset of action occurs in about one hour and persists for three to four hours .
Effective anticonvulsant serum levels range from 2 . 5 to 7 . 5 mEq / liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidneys at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Indications and Usage Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP is suitable for replacement therapy in magnesium deficiency , especially in acute hypomagnesemia accompanied by signs of tetany similar to those observed in hypocalcemia .
In such cases , the serum magnesium ( Mg + + ) level is usually below the lower limit of normal ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mEq / liter ) and the serum calcium ( Ca + + ) level is normal ( 4 . 3 to 5 . 3 mEq / liter ) or elevated .
In total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) , magnesium sulfate may be added to the nutrient admixture to correct or prevent hypomagnesemia which can arise during the course of therapy .
Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP is also indicated for the prevention and control of seizures ( convulsions ) in pre - eclampsia and eclampsia , respectively .
Contraindications Parenteral administration of the drug is contraindicated in patients with heart block and myocardial damage .
Warnings FETAL HARM : Continuous administration of magnesium sulfate beyond 5 to 7 days to pregnant women can lead to hypocalcemia and bone abnormalities in the developing fetus .
These bone abnormalities include skeletal demineralization and osteopenia .
In addition , cases of neonatal fracture have been reported .
The shortest duration of treatment that can lead to fetal harm is not known .
Magnesium sulfate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
If magnesium sulfate is given for treatment of preterm labor , the woman should be informed that the efficacy and safety of such use have not been established and that use of magnesium sulfate beyond 5 to 7 days may cause fetal abnormalities .
ALUMINUM TOXICITY : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Parenteral use in the presence of renal insufficiency may lead to magnesium intoxication .
Intravenous use in the eclampsia should be reserved for immediate control of life - threatening convulsions .
Precautions General Administer with caution if flushing and sweating occurs .
When barbiturates , narcotics or other hypnotics ( or systemic anesthetics ) are to be given in conjunction with magnesium , their dosage should be adjusted with caution because of additive CNS depressant effects of magnesium .
Because magnesium is removed from the body solely by the kidneys , the drug should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment .
Urine output should be maintained at a level of 100 mL or more during the four hours preceding each dose .
Monitoring serum magnesium levels and the patient ' s clinical status is essential to avoid the consequences of overdosage in toxemia .
Clinical indications of a safe dosage regimen include the presence of the patellar reflex ( knee jerk ) and absence of respiratory depression ( approximately 16 breaths or more / minute ) .
When repeated doses of the drug are given parenterally , knee jerk reflexes should be tested before each dose and if they are absent , no additional magnesium should be given until they return .
Serum magnesium levels usually sufficient to control convulsions range from 3 to 6 mg / 100 mL ( 2 . 5 to 5 mEq / liter ) .
The strength of the deep tendon reflexes begins to diminish when magnesium levels exceed 4 mEq / liter .
Reflexes may be absent at 10 mEq magnesium / liter , where respiratory paralysis is a potential hazard .
An injectable calcium salt should be immediately available to counteract the potential hazards of magnesium intoxication in eclampsia .
50 % Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP must be diluted to a concentration of 20 % or less prior to intravenous infusion .
Rate of administration should be slow and cautious , to avoid producing hypermagnesemia .
The 50 % solution also should be diluted to 20 % or less for intramuscular injection in infants and children .
Laboratory Tests Magnesium sulfate injection should not be given unless hypomagnesemia has been confirmed and the serum concentration of magnesium is monitored .
The normal serum level is 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mEq / L .
Drug Interactions CNS Depressants — When barbiturates , narcotics or other hypnotics ( or systemic anesthetics ) , or other CNS depressants are to be given in conjunction with magnesium , their dosage should be adjusted with caution because of additive CNS depressant effects of magnesium .
CNS depression and peripheral transmission defects produced by magnesium may be antagonized by calcium .
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents — Excessive neuromuscular block has occurred in patients receiving parenteral magnesium sulfate and a neuromuscular blocking agent ; these drugs should be administered concomitantly with caution .
Cardiac Glycosides — Magnesium sulfate should be administered with extreme caution in digitalized patients , because serious changes in cardiac conduction which can result in heart block may occur if administration of calcium is required to treat magnesium toxicity .
Pregnancy ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) Teratogenic Effects Magnesium sulfate can cause fetal abnormalities when administered beyond 5 to 7 days to pregnant women .
There are retrospective epidemiological studies and case reports documenting fetal abnormalities such as hypocalcemia , skeletal demineralization , osteopenia and other skeletal abnormalities with continuous maternal administration of magnesium sulfate for more than 5 to 7 days . 1 - 10 Magnesium sulfate injection should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , the woman should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects When administered by continuous intravenous infusion ( especially for more than 24 hours preceding delivery ) to control convulsions in a toxemic woman , the newborn may show signs of magnesium toxicity , including neuromuscular or respiratory depression ( See OVERDOSAGE ) .
Labor and Delivery Continuous administration of magnesium sulfate is an unapproved treatment for preterm labor .
The safety and efficacy of such use have not been established .
The administration of magnesium sulfate outside of its approved indication in pregnant women should be by trained obstetrical personnel in a hospital setting with appropriate obstetrical care facilities .
Nursing Mothers Since magnesium is distributed into milk during parenteral magnesium sulfate administration , the drug should be used with caution in nursing women .
Geriatrics Geriatric patients often require reduced dosage because of impaired renal function .
In patients with severe impairment , dosage should not exceed 20 grams in 48 hours .
Serum magnesium should be monitored in such patients .
Adverse Reactions The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication .
These include flushing , sweating , hypotension , depressed reflexes , flaccid paralysis , hypothermia , circulatory collapse , cardiac and central nervous system depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis .
Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported .
Overdosage Magnesium intoxication is manifested by a sharp drop in blood pressure and respiratory paralysis .
Disappearance of the patellar reflect is a useful clinical sign to detect the onset of magnesium intoxication .
In the event of overdosage , artificial ventilation must be provided until a calcium salt can be injected intravenously to antagonize the effects of magnesium .
For Treatment of Overdose Artificial respiration is often required .
Intravenous calcium , 10 to 20 mL of a 5 % solution ( diluted if desirable with isotonic sodium chloride for injection ) is used to counteract effects of hypermagnesemia .
Subcutaneous physostigmine , 0 . 5 to 1 mg may be helpful .
Hypermagnesemia in the newborn may require resuscitation and assisted ventilation via endotracheal intubation or intermittent positive pressure ventilation as well as intravenous calcium .
Dosage and Administration Dosage of magnesium sulfate must be carefully adjusted according to individual requirements and response , and administration of the drug should be discontinued as soon as the desired effect is obtained .
Both intravenous and intramuscular administration are appropriate .
Intramuscular administration of the undiluted 50 % solution results in therapeutic plasma levels in 60 minutes , whereas intravenous doses will provide a therapeutic level almost immediately .
The rate of intravenous injection should generally not exceed 150 mg / minute ( 1 . 5 mL of a 10 % concentration or its equivalent ) , except in severe eclampsia with seizures ( see below ) .
Continuous maternal administration of magnesium sulfate in pregnancy beyond 5 to 7 days can cause fetal abnormalities .
Solutions for intravenous infusion must be diluted to a concentration of 20 % or less prior to administration .
The diluents commonly used are 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Deep intramuscular injection of the undiluted ( 50 % ) solution is appropriate for adults , but the solution should be diluted to a 20 % or less concentration prior to such injection in children .
In Magnesium Deficiency In the treatment of mild magnesium deficiency , the usual adult dose is 1 gram , equivalent to 8 . 12 mEq of magnesium ( 2 mL of the 50 % solution ) injected intramuscularly every six hours for four doses ( equivalent to a total 32 . 5 mEq of magnesium per 24 hours ) .
For severe hypomagnesemia , as much as 250 mg ( approximately 2 mEq ) per kg of body weight ( 0 . 5 mL of the 50 % solution ) may be given intramuscularly within a period of four hours if necessary .
Alternatively , 5 grams , ( approximately 40 mEq ) can be added to one liter of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP for slow intravenous infusion over a three - hour period .
In the treatment of deficiency states , caution must be observed to prevent exceeding the renal excretory capacity .
In Hyperalimentation In total parenteral nutrition , maintenance requirements for magnesium are not precisely known .
The maintenance dose used in adults ranges from 8 to 24 mEq ( 1 gram to 3 grams ) daily ; for infants , the range is 2 to 10 mEq ( 0 . 25 gram to 1 . 25 grams ) daily .
In Pre - eclampsia or Eclampsia In severe pre - eclampsia or eclampsia , the total initial dose is 10 grams to 14 grams of magnesium sulfate .
Intravenously , a dose of 4 grams to 5 grams in 250 mL of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may be infused .
Simultaneously , intramuscular doses of up to 10 gram ( 5 grams to 10 mL of the undiluted 50 % solution in each buttock ) are given .
Alternatively , the initial intravenous dose of 4 grams may be given by diluting the 50 % solution to a 10 or 20 % concentration ; the diluted fluid ( 40 mL of a 10 % solution or 20 mL of a 20 % solution ) may then be injected intravenously over a period of three to four minutes .
Subsequently , 4 grams to 5 grams ( 8 to 10 mL of the 50 % solution ) are injected intramuscularly into alternate buttocks every four hours as needed , depending on the continuing presence of the patellar reflex and adequate respiratory function .
Alternatively , after the initial intravenous dose , some clinicians administer 1 gram to 2 grams / hour by constant intravenous infusion .
Therapy should continue until paroxysms cease .
A serum magnesium level of 6 mg / 100 mL is considered optimal for control of seizures .
A total daily ( 24 hr ) dose of 30 grams to 40 grams should not be exceeded .
In the presence of severe renal insufficiency , the maximum dosage of magnesium sulfate is 20 grams / 48 hours and frequent serum magnesium concentrations must be obtained .
Continuous use of magnesium sulfate in pregnancy beyond 5 to 7 days can cause fetal abnormalities .
Other Uses In counteracting the muscle - stimulating effects of barium poisoning , the usual dose of magnesium sulfate is 1 gram to 2 grams given intravenously .
For controlling seizures associated with epilepsy , glomerulonephritis or hypothyroidism , the usual adult dose is 1 gram administered intramuscularly or intravenously .
In paroxysmal atrial tachycardia , magnesium should be used only if simpler measures have failed and there is no evidence of myocardial damage .
The usual dose is 3 grams to 4 grams ( 30 to 40 mL of a 10 % solution ) administered intravenously over 30 seconds with extreme caution .
For reduction of cerebral edema , 2 . 5 grams ( 25 mL of a 10 % solution ) is given intravenously .
Incompatibilities Magnesium sulfate in solution may result in a precipitate formation when mixed with solutions containing : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The potential incompatibility will often be influenced by the changes in the concentration of reactants and the pH of the solutions .
It has been reported that magnesium may reduce the antibiotic activity of streptomycin , tetracycline and tobramycin when given together .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How Supplied Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose containers as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
[ MULTIMEDIA ] REFERENCES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira Logo LAB - 1024 - 4 . 0 Revised : 05 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
