Drug Facts Active Ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • Clinically proven to prevent Athlete ' s Foot ( Tinea Pedis ) and Ringworm ( Tinea Corporis ) with daily use • For effective relief of symptoms of Athlete ' s Foot , including itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort associated with this condition .
Warnings • Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor • For External Use Only • Avoid contact with eyes • If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for Athlete ' s Foot ) discontinue use and consult a doctor • Do not use if seal on tube is punctured or is not visible .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • Supervise children in the use of this product • For Athlete ' s Foot : pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• Use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer consult a doctor .
• To prevent Athlete ' s Foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • This product is not effective on the scalp or nails • Replace cap and tighten after each use .
Other Information • Store between 50 ° - 86 ° F in a dry place Inactive Ingredients Aloe , Benzalkonium Chloride , Cetearyl Alcohol , Ceteth - 20 , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Lavandula , Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Menthol , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Phosphate , Tocopherol , Urea , Water Questions or comments ?
Call Toll Free 1 - 866 - 478 - 3338 usainfo @ flexitol . com www . flexitol . com USA DISTRIBUTOR : LaCorium Health USA Inc . , Boca Raton , Florida 33487 MANUFACTURED FOR : LaCorium Health International Pty Ltd . , Level 14 , Tower 2 , 101 Grafton Street , Bondi Junction NSW 2022 , Australia PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 g Tube Carton Flexitol ® Medicated Foot Cream For treatment of athlete ' s foot Before After 2 Weeks APPROVED AMERICAN PODIATRIC MEDICAL ASSOCIATION With Aloe & Vitamin E DIABETIC FRIENDLY Net Wt 2 oz ( 56 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
