Rx only DESCRIPTION Isosorbide Mononitrate ( ISMN ) , an organic nitrate and the major biologically active metabolite of isosorbide dinitrate ( ISDN ) , is a vasodilator with effects on both arteries and veins .
Each Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablet , for oral administration contains 30 mg , 60 mg or 120 mg of ISMN .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , titanium dioxide .
The 30 mg tablet also contains D & D Red No . 27 aluminum lake , D & C Red No . 30 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
The 60 mg tablet also contains D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake .
The molecular formula of ISMN is C6H9NO6 and the molecular weight is 191 . 14 .
The chemical name for ISMN is 1 , 4 : 3 , 6 - dianhydro - D - glucitol 5 - nitrate ; the compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ISMN is a white , crystalline , odorless compound which is stable in air and in solution , has a melting point of about 90 ° C , and an optical rotation of + 144 ° ( 2 % in water , 20 ° C ) .
ISMN is freely soluble in water , ethanol , methanol , chloroform , ethyl acetate , and dichloromethane .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action ISMN extended - release tablets are an oral extended - release formulation of ISMN , the major active metabolite of isosorbide dinitrate ; most of the clinical activity of the dinitrate is attributable to the mononitrate .
The principal pharmacological action of ISMN and all organic nitrates in general is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle , producing dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood , decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , and systolic arterial pressure and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Pharmacodynamics Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the antianginal efficacy of continuously delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their antianginal efficacy been restored .
Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets during long - term use over 42 days dosed at 120 mg once daily continued to improve exercise performance at 4 hours and at 12 hours after dosing but their effects ( although better than placebo ) are less than or , at best , equal to the effects of the first dose of 60 mg .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After oral administration of ISMN as a solution or immediate - release tablets , maximum plasma concentrations of ISMN are achieved in 30 to 60 minutes , with an absolute bioavailability of approximately 100 % .
After intravenous administration , ISMN is distributed into total body water in about 9 minutes with a volume of distribution of approximately 0 . 6 to 0 . 7 L / kg .
ISMN is approximately 5 % bound to human plasma proteins and is distributed into blood cells and saliva .
ISMN is primarily metabolized by the liver , but unlike oral Isosorbide dinitrate , it is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
ISMN is cleared by denitration to isosorbide and glucuronidation as the mononitrate , with 96 % of the administered dose excreted in the urine within 5 days and only about 1 % eliminated in the feces .
At least six different compounds have been detected in urine , with about 2 % of the dose excreted as the unchanged drug and at least five metabolites .
The metabolites are not pharmacologically active .
Renal clearance accounts for only about 4 % of total body clearance .
The mean plasma elimination half - life of ISMN is approximately 5 hours .
The disposition of ISMN in patients with various degrees of renal insufficiency , liver cirrhosis , or cardiac dysfunction was evaluated and found to be similar to that observed in healthy subjects .
The elimination half - life of ISMN was not prolonged , and there was no drug accumulation in patients with chronic renal failure after multiple oral dosing .
The pharmacokinetics and / or bioavailability of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets have been studied in both normal volunteers and patients following single - and multiple - dose administration .
Data from these studies suggest that the pharmacokinetics of ISMN administered as Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets are similar between normal healthy volunteers and patients with angina pectoris .
In single - and multiple - dose studies , the pharmacokinetics of ISMN were dose proportional between 30 mg and 240 mg .
In a multiple - dose study , the effect of age on the pharmacokinetic profile of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release 60 mg and 120 mg ( 2 x 60 mg ) tablets was evaluated in subjects ≥ 45 years .
The results of that study indicate that there are no significant differences in any of the pharmacokinetic variables of ISMN between elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) and younger individuals ( 45 - 64 years ) for the ISMN extended release 60 mg dose .
The administration of Isosorbide mononitrate extended release tablets 120 mg ( 2 x 60 mg tablets every 24 hours for 7 days ) produced a dose - proportional increase in Cmax and AUC , without changes in Tmax or the terminal half - life .
The older group ( 65 - 74 years ) showed 30 % lower apparent oral clearance ( CI / F ) following the higher dose , ie . , 120 mg , compared to the younger group ( 45 - 64 years ) ; CI / F was not different between the two groups following the 60 mg regimen .
While CI / F was independent of dose in the younger group , the older group showed slightly lower CI / F following the 120 mg regimen compared to the 60 mg regimen .
Differences between the two age groups , however , were not statistically significant .
In the same study , females showed a slight ( 15 % ) reduction in clearance when the dose was increased .
Females showed higher AUCs and Cmax compared to males , but these differences were accounted for by differences in body weight between the two groups .
When the data were analyzed using age as a variable , the results indicated that there were no significant differences in any of the pharmacokinetic variables of ISMN between older ( ≥ 65 years ) and younger individuals ( 45 - 64 years ) .
The results of this study , however , should be viewed with caution due to the small numbers of subjects in each age subgroup and consequently the lack of sufficient statistical power .
The following table summarizes key pharmacokinetic parameters of Isosorbide mononitrate ( ISMN ) after single - and multiple - dose administration of ISMN as an oral solution or Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets : SINGLE - DOSE STUDIES MULTIPLE - DOSE STUDIES PARAMETER ISMN 60 mg ISMN extended release tablets 60 mg ISMN extended release tablets 60 mg ISMN extended release tablets 120 mg Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1242 to 1534 424 to 541 557 to 572 1151 to 1180 Tmax ( hr ) 0 . 6 to 0 . 7 3 . 1 to 4 . 5 2 . 9 to 4 . 2 3 . 1 to 3 . 2 AUC ( ng • hr / mL ) 8189 to 8313 5990 to 7452 6625 to 7555 14241 to 16800 t ½ ( hr ) 4 . 8 to 5 . 1 6 . 3 to 6 . 6 6 . 2 to 6 . 3 6 . 2 to 6 . 4 CI / F ( mL / min ) 120 to 122 151 to 187 132 to 151 119 to 140 Food Effects The influence of food on the bioavailability of ISMN after single - dose administration of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets 60 mg was evaluated in three different studies involving either a " light " breakfast or a high - calorie , high - fat breakfast .
Results of these studies indicate that concomitant food intake may decrease the rate ( increase in Tmax ) but not the extent ( AUC ) of absorption of ISMN .
CLINICAL TRIALS Controlled trials with Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets have demonstrated antianginal activity following acute and chronic dosing .
Administration of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets once daily , taken early in the morning on arising , provided at least 12 hours of antianginal activity .
In a placebo control parallel study , 30 mg , 60 mg , 120 mg , and 240 mg of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets were administered once daily for up to 6 weeks .
Prior to randomization , all patients completed a 1 - to 3 - week single - blind placebo phase to demonstrate nitrate responsiveness and total exercise treadmill time reproducibility .
Exercise tolerance tests using the Bruce Protocol were conducted prior to and at 4 and 12 hours after the morning dose on days 1 , 7 , 14 , 28 , and 42 of the double - blind period .
Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets 30 and 60 mg ( only doses evaluated acutely ) demonstrated a significant increase from baseline in total treadmill time relative to placebo at 4 and 12 hours after the administration of the first dose .
At day 42 , the 120 mg and 240 mg dose of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets demonstrated a significant increase in total treadmill time at 4 and 12 hours post dosing , but by day 42 the 30 mg and 60 mg doses no longer were differentiable from placebo .
Throughout chronic dosing rebound was not observed in any Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release treatment group .
Pooled data from two other trials , comparing Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets 60 mg once daily , Isosorbide dinitrate 30 mg QID , and placebo QID in patients with chronic stable angina using a randomized , double - blind , three - way crossover design found statistically significant increases in exercise tolerance times for Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets compared to placebo at hours 4 , 8 and 12 and to Isosorbide dinitrate at hour 4 .
The increases in exercise tolerance on day 14 , although statistically significant compared to placebo , were about half of that seen on day 1 of the trial .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of oral ISMN is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute angina episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reactions to other nitrates or nitrites .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of ISMN in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established ; because the effects of ISMN are difficult to terminate rapidly , this drug is not recommended in these settings .
If ISMN is used in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of ISMN .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by ISMN may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
In industrial workers who have had long term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of oral ISMN is not known .
Information for Patients Patients should be told that the antianginal efficacy of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets can be maintained by carefully following the prescribed schedule of dosing .
For most patients , this can be accomplished by taking the dose on arising .
As with other nitrates , daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with ISMN .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with ISMN , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of antianginal efficacy .
Aspirin or acetaminophen often successfully relieves ISMN induced headaches with no deleterious effect on ISMN antianginal efficacy .
Treatment with ISMN may be associated with light - headedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Patients should be advised that they may pass empty matrix " ghosts " ( tablets ) via colostomy or in the stool , and that this is of no concern since the active medication has already been absorbed .
Drug Interaction The vasodilating effects of ISMN may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
DRUG & LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Nitrates and nitrites may interfere with the Zlatkis - Zak color reaction , causing falsely low readings in serum cholesterol determinations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in rats exposed to Isosorbide Mononitrate ( ISMN ) in their diets at doses of up to 900 mg / kg / day for the first 6 months and 500 mg / kg / day for the remaining duration of a study in which males were dosed for up to 121 weeks and females were dosed for up to 137 weeks .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in mice exposed to isosorbide mononitrate in their diets for up to 104 weeks at doses of up to 900 mg / kg / day .
ISMN did not produce gene mutations ( Ames test , mouse lymphoma test ) or chromosome aberrations ( human lymphocyte and mouse micronucleus tests ) at biologically relevant concentrations .
No effects on fertility were observed in a study in which male and female rats were administered doses of up to 750 mg / kg / day beginning , in males , 9 weeks prior to mating , and in females , 2 weeks prior to mating .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category B .
In studies designed to detect effects of ISMN on embryo - fetal development , doses of up to 240 or 248 mg / kg / day , administered to pregnant rats and rabbits , were unassociated with evidence of such effects .
These animal doses are about 100 times the maximum recommended human dose ( 120 mg in a 50 kg woman ) when comparison is based on body weight ; when comparison is based on body surface area , the rat dose is about 17 times the human dose and the rabbit dose is about 38 times the human dose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Neonatal survival and development and incidence of stillbirths were adversely affected when pregnant rats were administered oral doses of 750 ( but not 300 ) mg ISMN / kg / day during late gestation and lactation .
This dose ( about 312 times the human dose when comparison is based on body weight and 54 times the human dose when comparison is based on body surface area ) was associated with decreases in maternal weight gain and motor activity and evidence of impaired lactation .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ISMN is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ISMN in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended - release Tablets did not include sufficient information on patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience for Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended - release tablets has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
Clinical experience for organic nitrates reported in the literature identified a potential for severe hypotension and increased sensitivity to nitrates in the elderly .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the doing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of the concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients may have reduced baroreceptor function and may develop severe orthostatic hypotension when vasodilators are used .
Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended - release Tablets should therefore be used with caution in elderly patients who may be volume depleted , on multiple medications or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by isosorbide mononitrate may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Elderly patients may be more susceptible to hypotension and may be at greater risk of falling at therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , particularly in the elderly .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The table below shows the frequencies of the adverse events that occurred in > 5 % of the subjects in three placebo - controlled North American studies , in which patients in the active treatment arm received 30 mg , 60 mg , 120 mg , or 240 mg of ISMN as Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets once daily .
In parentheses , the same table shows the frequencies with which these adverse events were associated with the discontinuation of treatment .
Overall , 8 % of the patients who received 30 mg , 60 mg , 120 mg , or 240 mg of ISMN in the three placebo - controlled North American studies discontinued treatment because of adverse events .
Most of these discontinued because of headache .
Dizziness was rarely associated with withdrawal from these studies .
Since headache appears to be a dose - related adverse effect and tends to disappear with continued treatment , it is recommended that Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets treatment be initiated at low doses for several days before being increased to desired levels .
FREQUENCY AND ADVERSE EVENTS ( DISCONTINUED ) * Three Controlled North American Studies Dose Placebo 30 mg 60 mg 120 mg ** 240 mg ** Patients 96 60 102 65 65 Headache 15 % ( 0 % ) 38 % ( 5 % ) 51 % ( 8 % ) 42 % ( 5 % ) 57 % ( 8 % ) Dizziness 4 % ( 0 % ) 8 % ( 0 % ) 11 % ( 1 % ) 9 % ( 2 % ) 9 % ( 2 % ) * Some individuals discontinued for multiple reasons .
** Patients were started on 60 mg and titrated to their final dose .
In addition , the three North American trials were pooled with 11 controlled trials conducted in Europe .
Among the 14 controlled trials , a total of 711 patients were randomized to Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets .
When the pooled data were reviewed , headache and dizziness were the only adverse events that were reported by > 5 % of patients .
Other adverse events , each reported by ≤ 5 % of exposed patients , and in many cases of uncertain relation to drug treatment , were : Autonomic Nervous System Disorders : Dry mouth , hot flushes .
Body As A Whole : Asthenia , back pain , chest pain , edema , fatigue , fever , flu - like symptoms , malaise , rigors .
Cardiovascular Disorders , General : Cardiac failure , hypertension , hypotension .
Central And Peripheral Nervous System Disorders : Dizziness , headache , hypoesthesia , migraine , neuritis , paresis , paresthesia , ptosis , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal System Disorders : Abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , flatulence , gastric ulcer , gastritis , glossitis , hemorrhagic gastric ulcer , hemorrhoids , loose stools , melena , nausea , vomiting .
Hearing And Vestibular Disorders : Earache , tinnitus , tympanic membrane perforation .
Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders : Arrhythmia , arrhythmia atrial , atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , bundle branch block , extrasystole , palpitation , tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia .
Liver and Biliary System Disorders : SGOT increase , SGPT increase .
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Hyperuricemia , hypokalemia .
Musculoskeletal System Disorders : Arthralgia , frozen shoulder , muscle weakness , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia , myositis , tendon disorder , torticollis .
Myo - , Endo - , Pericardial and Valve Disorders : Angina pectoris aggravated , heart murmur , heart sound abnormal , myocardial infarction , Q - Wave abnormality .
Platelet , Bleeding , And Clotting Disorders : Purpura , thrombocytopenia .
Psychiatric Disorders : Anxiety , concentration impaired , confusion , decreased libido , depression , impotence , insomnia , nervousness , paroniria , somnolence .
Red Blood Cell Disorder : Hypochromic anemia .
Reproductive Disorders , Female : Atrophic vaginitis , breast pain .
Resistance Mechanism Disorders : Bacterial infection , moniliasis , viral infection .
Respiratory System Disorders : Bronchitis , bronchospasm , coughing , dyspnea , increased sputum , nasal congestion , pharyngitis , pneumonia , pulmonary infiltration , rales , rhinitis , sinusitis .
Skin and Appendages Disorders : Acne , hair texture abnormal , increased sweating , pruritus , rash , skin nodule .
Urinary System Disorders : Polyuria , renal calculus , urinary tract infection .
Vascular ( Extracardiac ) Disorders : Flushing , intermittent claudication , leg ulcer , varicose vein .
Vision Disorders : Conjunctivitis , photophobia , vision abnormal .
In addition , the following spontaneous adverse event has been reported during the marketing of Isosorbide Mononitrate ( ISMN ) : syncope .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects The ill effects of ISMN overdose are generally the results of ISMN ' s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of ISMN and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of ISMN overdose .
There are no data suggesting what dose of ISMN is likely to be life threatening in humans .
In rats and mice , there is significant lethality at doses of 2000 mg / kg and 3000 mg / kg , respectively .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of ISMN .
In particular , dialysis is known to be ineffective in removing ISMN from the body .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of ISMN is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of ISMN overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with ISMN overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward an increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of ISMN overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia Methemoglobinemia has been reported in patients receiving other organic nitrates , and it probably could also occur as a side effect of ISMN .
Certainly nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of ISMN can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moiety of ISMN is quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 2 mg / kg of ISMN should be required before any of these patients manifest clinically significant ( ≥ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of ISMN .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr ( equivalent , in total administered dose of nitrate ions , to 7 . 8 - 11 . 1 mg of ISMN per hour ) , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Not withstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets is 30 mg ( given as a single 30 mg tablet or as 1 / 2 of a 60 mg tablet ) or 60 mg ( given as a single tablet ) once daily .
After several days the dosage may be increased to 120 mg ( given as a single 120 mg tablet or as two 60 mg tablets ) once daily .
Rarely , 240 mg may be required .
The daily dose of Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets should be taken in the morning on arising .
Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release tablets should not be chewed or crushed and should be swallowed together with a half - glassful of fluid .
HOW SUPPLIED Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release 30 mg tablets are oval , reddish pink , film - coated tablets , debossed " N " bisect " 30 " on one side and bisect on the other side , packaged as follows : NDC 0615 - 8043 - 39 blistercard of 30 tablets NDC 0615 - 8043 - 05 blistercard of 15 tablets NDC 0615 - 8043 - 30 unit dose box of 30 tablets Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release 60 mg tablets are oval , yellow , film - coated tablets , debossed " N " bisect " 60 " on one side and bisect on the other side , packaged as follows : NDC 0615 - 8044 - 39 blistercard of 30 tablets NDC 0615 - 8044 - 05 blistercard of 15 tablets Isosorbide mononitrate extended - release 120 mg tablets are oval , white , film - coated tablets , debossed " N120 " on one side Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from excessive moisture .
Manufactured By : Nesher Pharmaceuticals USA LLC St . Louis , MO 63044 Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 P10237 02 / 15 Principal Display Panel - 30 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
