Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each caplet ) Dextromethorphan HBr 15 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Use temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • adults and children 12 years of age and over : take 2 caplets every 6 to 8 hours as needed , not to exceed 8 caplets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , hypromellose , isomalt , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , silicon dioxide , titanium dioxide Questions ?
1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in India PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 Caplet Blister Pack Carton MAXIMUM STRENGTH NEW !
NDC 72854 - 351 - 20 Delsym ® COUGH Dextromethorphan HBr ( Cough Suppressant ) LASTS UP TO 8 HR DAY OR NIGHT FAST RELEASE Actual Size 20 Caplets For Ages 12 + [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
