Rx only FOR DERMATOLOGICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is a topical preparation containing 27 . 5 % Salicylic Acid in a film - forming vehicle composed of : acrylates copolymer , isopropyl alcohol , isobutyrate , n - butyl acetate , and polyvinyl butyrate .
The pharmacologic activity of this medication is generally attributed to the keratolytic activity of salicylic acid which is incorporated into a film - forming vehicle designed to cover the wart without the need for a bandage .
The chemical structural formula of salicylic acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mode of action for salicylic acid in the treatment of warts is unknown , its activity appears to be associated with its keratolytic action , which results in mechanical removal of epidermal cells infected with wart viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USES Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is indicated for the topical treatment and removal of common warts and plantar warts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % should not be used by diabetics or patients with impaired blood circulation .
Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % should not be used on moles , birthmarks , unusual warts with hair growing from them or warts on the face .
PRECAUTIONS Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is for external use only .
Do not permit Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % to contact eyes or mucous membranes .
If contact with eyes or mucous membranes occurs , immediately flush with water for 15 minutes .
Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % should not be allowed to contact normal skin surrounding the wart .
Treatment should be discontinued if excessive irritation occurs .
Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is flammable and should be kept away from fire or flame .
Keep bottle tightly capped when not in use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A localized irritant reaction may occur if Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is applied to the normal skin surrounding the wart .
Any irritation may normally be controlled by temporarily discontinuing use and by applying the medication only to the wart site when treatment is resumed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to application of Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % soak wart in warm water for five minutes .
Remove any loosened tissue by gently rubbing with a brush , wash cloth , emery board or pumice stone .
Dry thoroughly .
Using the brush applicator supplied , apply twice to entire wart surface , allowing the first application to dry before applying the second .
Treatment should be once or twice a day and should continue as directed by physician .
Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin .
Clinically visible improvement will normally occur during the first or second week of therapy .
Maximum resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of drug use .
HOW SUPPLIED Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % is supplied in 10 mL amber glass bottles with brush applicator - NDC 54295 - 304 - 11 .
Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) .
, excursions permitted between 15ºC and 30ºC ( between 59ºF and 86ºF ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40ºC ( 104ºF ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Marketed By : Trinity Pharmaceuticals LLC 1 International Plaza , Suite 550 Philadelphia , PA 19113 TrinityPharmaLLC . com REV 11 / 13 Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % 10 mL Container Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 54295 - 304 - 11 Rx only For topical use only Not for ophthalmic use Salicylic Acid , 27 . 5 % 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
