DESCRIPTION Ultramicrosize griseofulvin tablets , USP contain ultramicrosize crystals of griseofulvin , an antibiotic derived from a species of Penicillium .
The chemical name of griseofulvin , USP is 7 - Chloro - 2 ’ , 4 , 6 - trimethoxy - 6 ’ β - methylspiro [ benzofuran - 2 ( 3 H ) , 1 ’ - [ 2 ] cyclohexene ] - 3 , 4 ’ - dione .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Griseofulvin , USP occurs as a white to creamy white , odorless powder which is very slightly soluble in water , soluble in acetone , dimethylformamide , and chloroform and sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Each ultramicrosize griseofulvin tablets , USP contains ultramicrosize griseofulvin 125 mg or 250 mg and the following inactive ingredients : calcium stearate , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , lactose anhydrous , polyethylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 125 mg tablet contains iron oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Griseofulvin is fungistatic with in vitro activity against various species of Microsporum , Epidermophyton and Trichophyton .
It has no effect on bacteria or other genera of fungi .
Pharmacokinetics Following oral administration , griseofulvin is deposited in the keratin precursor cells and has a greater affinity for diseased tissue .
The drug is tightly bound to the new keratin which becomes highly resistant to fungal invasions .
The efficiency of gastrointestinal absorption of ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin is approximately one and one - half times that of the conventional microsize griseofulvin .
This factor permits the oral intake of two - thirds as much ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin as the microsize form .
However , there is currently no evidence that this lower dose confers any significant clinical differences with regard to safety and / or efficacy .
In a bioequivalence study conducted in healthy volunteers ( N = 24 ) in the fasted state , 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets were compared with 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets that were physically altered ( crushed ) and administered with applesauce .
The 250 mg ultramicrocrystalline griseofulvin tablets were found to be bioequivalent to the physically altered ( crushed ) 250 mg ultramicro - crystalline griseofulvin tablets ( See Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Mean ( ± SD ) of the Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Griseofulvin Administered in Applesauce as a Single Dose of Ultramicrosize Griseofulvin Tablets 250 mg Uncrushed and Crushed to Fasted Healthy Volunteers ( N = 24 ) 250 mg Ultramicrocrystalline Griseofulvin Tablets Unaltered 250 mg Ultramicrocrystalline Griseofulvin Tablets Physically Altered ( Crushed and in Applesauce ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 600 . 61 ( ± 167 . 6 ) 672 . 61 ( ± 146 . 2 ) Tmax ( hr ) 4 . 04 ( ± 2 . 2 ) 3 . 08 ( ± 1 . 02 ) AUC ( ng · hr / mL ) 8618 . 89 ( ± 1907 . 2 ) 9023 . 71 ( ± 1911 . 5 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ultramicrosize griseofulvin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following ringworm infections ; tinea corporis ( ringworm of the body ) , tinea pedis ( athlete ’ s foot ) , tinea cruris ( ringworm of the groin and thigh ) , tinea barbae ( barber ’ s itch ) , tinea capitis ( ringworm of the scalp ) , and tinea unguium ( onychomycosis , ringworm of the nails ) , when caused by one or more of the following genera of fungi : Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton tonsurans , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton interdigitalis , Trichophyton verrucosum , Trichophyton megnini , Trichophyton gallinae , Trichophyton crateriform , Trichophyton sulphureum , Trichophyton schoenleini , Microsporum audouini , Microsporum canis , Microsporum gypseum and Epidermophyton floccosum .
NOTE : Prior to therapy , the type of fungi responsible for the infection should be identified .
The use of the drug is not justified in minor or trivial infections which will respond to topical agents alone .
Griseofulvin is not effective in the following : bacterial infections , candidiasis ( moniliasis ) , histoplasmosis , actinomycosis , sporotrichosis , chromoblastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , North American blastomycosis , cryptococcosis ( torulosis ) , tinea versicolor and nocardiosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Two cases of conjoined twins have been reported since 1977 in patients taking griseofulvin during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Griseofulvin should not be prescribed to pregnant patients .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
This drug is contraindicated in patients with porphyria or hepatocellular failure and in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to griseofulvin .
WARNINGS Prophylactic Usage Safety and efficacy of griseofulvin for prophylaxis of fungal infections have not been established .
Serious Skin Reactions Severe skin reactions ( e . g . Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ) and erythema multiforme have been reported with griseofulvin use .
These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death .
If severe skin reactions occur , griseofulvin should be discontinued ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Hepatotoxicity Elevations in AST , ALT , bilirubin , and jaundice have been reported with griseofulvin use .
These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death .
Patients should be monitored for hepatic adverse events and discontinuation of griseofulvin considered if warranted ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Animal Toxicology Chronic feeding of griseofulvin , at levels ranging from 0 . 5 % to 2 . 5 % of the diet resulted in the development of liver tumors in several strains of mice , particularly in males .
Smaller particle sizes result in an enhanced effect .
Lower oral dosage levels have not been tested .
Subcutaneous administration of relatively small doses of griseofulvin once a week during the first three weeks of life has also been reported to induce hepatomata in mice .
Thyroid tumors , mostly adenomas but some carcinomas , have been reported in male rats receiving griseofulvin at levels of 2 % , 1 % and 0 . 2 % of the diet , and in female rats receiving the two higher dose levels .
Although studies in other animal species have not yielded evidence of tumorigenicity , these studies were not of adequate design to form a basis for conclusion in this regard .
In subacute toxicity studies , orally administered griseofulvin produced hepatocellular necrosis in mice , but this has not been seen in other species .
Disturbances in porphyrin metabolism have been reported in griseofulvin - treated laboratory animals .
Griseofulvin has been reported to have a colchicine - like effect on mitosis and cocarcinogenicity with methylcholanthrene in cutaneous tumor induction in laboratory animals .
Usage in Pregnancy See CONTRAINDICATIONS section .
Animal Reproduction Studies It has been reported in the literature that griseofulvin was found to be embryotoxic and teratogenic on oral administration to pregnant rats .
Pups with abnormalities have been reported in the litters of a few bitches treated with griseofulvin .
Suppression of spermatogenesis has been reported to occur in rats , but investigation in man failed to confirm this .
PRECAUTIONS Patients on prolonged therapy with any potent medication should be under close observation .
Periodic monitoring of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hematopoietic , should be done .
Since griseofulvin is derived from species of Penicillium , the possibility of cross sensitivity with penicillin exists ; however , known penicillin - sensitive patients have been treated without difficulty .
Since a photosensitivity reaction is occasionally associated with griseofulvin therapy , patients should be warned to avoid exposure to intense natural or artificial sunlight .
Lupus erythematosus or lupus - like syndromes have been reported in patients receiving griseofulvin .
Griseofulvin decreases the activity of warfarin - type anticoagulants so that patients receiving these drugs concomitantly may require dosage adjustment of the anticoagulant during and after griseofulvin therapy .
Barbiturates usually depress griseofulvin activity and concomitant administration may require a dosage adjustment of the antifungal agent .
There have been reports in the literature of possible interactions between griseofulvin and oral contraceptives .
The effect of alcohol may be potentiated by griseofulvin , producing such effects as tachycardia and flush .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been post - marketing reports of severe skin and hepatic adverse events associated with griseofulvin use ( see WARNINGS section ) .
When adverse reactions occur , they are most commonly of the hypersensitivity type such as skin rashes , urticaria , erythema multiforme - like drug reactions , and rarely , angioneurotic edema , and may necessitate withdrawal of therapy and appropriate countermeasures .
Paresthesia of the hands and feet have been reported after extended therapy .
Other side effects reported occasionally are oral thrush , nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , headache , fatigue , dizziness , insomnia , mental confusion , and impairment of performance of routine activities .
Proteinuria and leukopenia have been reported rarely .
Administration of the drug should be discontinued if granulocytopenia occurs .
When rare , serious reactions occur with griseofulvin , they are usually associated with high dosages , long periods of therapy , or both .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Accurate diagnosis of infecting organism is essential .
Identification should be made either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Medication must be continued until the infecting organism is completely eradicated as indicated by appropriate clinical or laboratory examination .
Representative treatment periods are tinea capitis , 4 to 6 weeks ; tinea corporis , 2 to 4 weeks ; tinea pedis , 4 to 8 weeks ; tinea unguium - depending on rate of growth - fingernails , at least 4 months ; toenails , at least 6 months .
General measures in regard to hygiene should be observed to control sources of infection or reinfection .
Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required , particularly in treatment of tinea pedis .
In some forms of athlete ’ s foot , yeasts and bacteria may be involved as well as fungi .
Griseofulvin will not eradicate the bacterial or monilial infection .
Ultramicrosize griseofulvin tablets may be swallowed whole or crushed and sprinkled onto 1 tablespoonful of applesauce and swallowed immediately without chewing .
Adults : Daily administration of 375 mg ( as a single dose or in divided doses ) will give a satisfactory response in most patients with tinea corporis , tinea cruris , and tinea capitis .
For those fungal infections more difficult to eradicate , such as tinea pedis and tinea unguium , a divided dose of 750 mg is recommended .
Pediatric Use : Approximately 7 . 3 mg per kg of body weight per day of ultramicrosize griseofulvin is an effective dose for most pediatric patients .
On this basis , the following dosage schedule is suggested : 16 to 27 kg : 125 mg to 187 . 5 mg daily .
Over 27 kg : 187 . 5 mg to 375 mg daily Children and infants 2 years of age and younger – dosage has not been established .
Clinical experience with griseofulvin in children with tinea capitis indicates that a single daily dose is effective .
Clinical relapse will occur if the medication is not continued until the infecting organism is eradicated .
HOW SUPPLIED Ultramicrosize griseofulvin tablets , USP are available as follows : 125 mg , are yellow colored , oval shaped , film coated biconvex tablets debossed with ‘ I127 ’ on one side and scored on other side .
• NDC 0781 - 5827 - 01 , bottle of 100 tablets • NDC 0781 - 5827 - 05 , bottle of 500 tablets 250 mg , are white to off white colored , capsule shaped , film coated biconvex tablets debossed with ‘ I126 ’ on one side and scored on other side .
• NDC 0781 - 5828 - 01 , bottle of 100 tablets • NDC 0781 - 5828 - 05 , bottle of 500 tablets STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Manufactured by : USV Private Limited OIDC , Mahatma Gandhi Udyog Nagar , Dabhel , Daman 396 210 , India for : Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 .
Rev . May 2018 .
Principal Display Panel NDC 0781 - 5827 - 01 Ultramicrosize Griseofulvin Tablets , USP 125 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0781 - 5828 - 01 Ultramicrosize Griseofulvin Tablets , USP 250 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
