DESCRIPTION Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablets , USP are for the treatment of hypertension .
It combines the antihypertensive activity of two agents : a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) hydrophilic blocking agent ( atenolol ) and a monosulfonamyl diuretic ( chlorthalidone ) .
Atenolol is Benzeneacetamide , 4 - [ 2 ' - hydroxy - 3 ' - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] propoxy ] - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Atenolol ( free base ) is a relatively polar hydrophilic compound with a water solubility of 26 . 5 mg / mL at 37 ° C .
It is freely soluble in 1 N HCl ( 300 mg / mL at 25 ° C ) and less soluble in chloroform ( 3 mg / mL at 25 ° C ) .
Chlorthalidone is 2 - Chloro - 5 - ( 1 - hydroxy - 3 - oxo - 1 - isoindolinyl ) benzene sulfonamide : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chlorthalidone has a water solubility of 12 mg / 100 mL at 20 ° C . Each Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablet , USP 100 mg / 25 mg contains : Atenolol , USP ....................................... 100 mg Chlorthalidone , USP ........................................................
25 mg Each Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablet , USP 50 mg / 25 mg contains : Atenolol , USP ......................................... 50 mg Chlorthalidone , USP .......................................................... 25 mg Inactive ingredients : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Atenolol and chlorthalidone have been used singly and concomitantly for the treatment of hypertension .
The antihypertensive effects of these agents are additive , and studies have shown that there is no interference with bioavailability when these agents are given together in the single combination tablet .
Therefore , this combination provides a convenient formulation for the concomitant administration of these two entities .
In patients with more severe hypertension , atenolol and chlorthalidone may be administered with other antihypertensives such as vasodilators .
Atenolol Atenolol is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent without membrane stabilizing or intrinsic sympathomimetic ( partial agonist ) activities .
This preferential effect is not absolute , however , and at higher doses , atenolol inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Pharmacodynamics In standard animal or human pharmacological tests , beta - adrenoreceptor blocking activity of atenolol has been demonstrated by : ( 1 ) reduction in resting and exercise heart rates and cardiac output , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest and on exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol induced tachycardia and ( 4 ) reduction in reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
A significant beta - blocking effect of atenolol , as measured by reduction of exercise tachycardia , is apparent within one hour following oral administration of a single dose .
This effect is maximal at about 2 to 4 hours and persists for at least 24 hours .
The effect at 24 hours is dose related and also bears a linear relationship to the logarithm of plasma atenolol concentration .
However , as has been shown for all beta - blocking agents , the antihypertensive effect does not appear to be related to plasma level .
In normal subjects , the beta1 - selectivity of atenolol has been shown by its reduced ability to reverse the beta2 - mediated vasodilating effect of isoproterenol as compared to equivalent beta - blocking doses of propranolol .
In asthmatic patients , a dose of atenolol producing a greater effect on resting heart rate than propranolol resulted in much less increase in airway resistance .
In a placebo controlled comparison of approximately equipotent oral doses of several beta - blockers , atenolol produced a significantly smaller decrease of FEV1 than nonselective beta - blockers , such as propranolol and unlike those agents did not inhibit bronchodilation in response to isoproterenol .
Consistent with its negative chronotropic effect due to beta blockade of the SA node , atenolol increases sinus cycle length and sinus node recovery time .
Conduction in the AV node is also prolonged .
Atenolol is devoid of membrane stabilizing activity , and increasing the dose well beyond that producing beta blockade does not further depress myocardial contractility .
Several studies have demonstrated a moderate ( approximately 10 % ) increase in stroke volume at rest and exercise .
In controlled clinical trials , atenolol given as a single daily dose , was an effective antihypertensive agent providing 24 - hour reduction of blood pressure .
Atenolol has been studied in combination with thiazide - type diuretics and the blood pressure effects of the combination are approximately additive .
Atenolol is also compatible with methyldopa , hydralazine and prazosin , the combination resulting in a larger fall in blood pressure than with the single agents .
The dose range of atenolol is narrow , and increasing the dose beyond 100 mg once daily is not associated with increased antihypertensive effect .
The mechanisms of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents have not been established .
Several mechanisms have been proposed and include : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output , ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
The results from long - term studies have not shown any diminution of the antihypertensive efficacy of atenolol with prolonged use .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism In man , absorption of an oral dose is rapid and consistent but incomplete .
Approximately 50 % of an oral dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , the remainder being excreted unchanged in the feces .
Peak blood levels are reached between 2 and 4 hours after ingestion .
Unlike propranolol or metoprolol , but like nadolol , hydrophilic atenolol undergoes little or no metabolism by the liver , and the absorbed portion is eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Atenolol also differs from propranolol in that only a small amount ( 6 % to 16 % ) is bound to proteins in the plasma .
This kinetic profile results in relatively consistent plasma drug levels with about a fourfold interpatient variation .
There is no information as to the pharmacokinetic effect of atenolol on chlorthalidone .
The elimination half - life of atenolol is approximately 6 to 7 hours and there is no alteration of the kinetic profile of the drug by chronic administration .
Following doses of 50 mg or 100 mg , both beta - blocking and antihypertensive effects persist for at least 24 hours .
When renal function is impaired , elimination of atenolol is closely related to the glomerular filtration rate ; but significant accumulation does not occur until the creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( see prescribing information for atenolol ) .
Atenolol Geriatric Pharmacology In general , elderly patients present higher atenolol plasma levels with total clearance values about 50 % lower than younger subjects .
The half - life is markedly longer in the elderly compared to younger subjects .
The reduction of atenolol clearance follows the general trend that the elimination of renally excreted drugs is decreased with increasing age .
Chlorthalidone Chlorthalidone is a monosulfonamyl diuretic which differs chemically from thiazide diuretics in that a double ring system is incorporated in its structure .
It is an oral diuretic with prolonged action and low toxicity .
The diuretic effect of the drug occurs within 2 hours of an oral dose .
It produces diuresis with greatly increased excretion of sodium and chloride .
At maximal therapeutic dosage , chlorthalidone is approximately equal in its diuretic effect to comparable maximal therapeutic doses of benzothiadiazine diuretics .
The site of action appears to be the cortical diluting segment of the ascending limb of Henle ' s loop of the nephron .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including atenolol and chlorthalidone .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
This fixed dose combination drug is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension .
If the fixed dose combination represents the dose appropriate to the individual patient ' s needs , it may be more convenient than the separate components .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone is contraindicated in patients with : sinus bradycardia ; heart block greater than first degree ; cardiogenic shock ; overt cardiac failure ( See WARNINGS ) ; anuria ; hypersensitivity to this product or to sulfonamide - derived drugs .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure , and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
IN PATIENTS WITHOUT A HISTORY OF CARDIAC FAILURE , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be treated appropriately according to currently recommended guidelines , and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment , atenolol and chlorthalidone should be withdrawn .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Renal and Hepatic Disease and Electrolyte Disturbances Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys , atenolol and chlorthalidone should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Since cumulative effects may develop in the presence of impaired renal function , if progressive renal impairment becomes evident , atenolol and chlorthalidone should be discontinued .
In patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , minor alterations in fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Atenolol and chlorthalidone should be used with caution in these patients .
Ischemic Heart Disease Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease , exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have been reported .
Therefore , such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris , when discontinuation of atenolol and chlorthalidone is planned , the patient should be carefully observed and should be advised to limit physical activity to a minimum .
Atenolol and chlorthalidone should be reinstated if withdrawal symptoms occur .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol and chlorthalidone therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta - blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem .
Patients with pre - existing conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of its relative beta1 - selectivity , however , atenolol and chlorthalidone may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 - selectivity is not absolute , the lowest possible dose of atenolol and chlorthalidone should be used and a beta2 - stimulating agent ( bronchodilator ) should be made available .
If dosage must be increased , dividing the dose should be considered in order to achieve lower peak blood levels .
Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery , however the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Metabolic and Endocrine Effects Atenolol and chlorthalidone may be used with caution in diabetic patients .
Beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
At recommended doses atenolol does not potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and , unlike nonselective beta - blockers , does not delay recovery of blood glucose to normal levels .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased or unchanged ; latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during chlorthalidone administration .
Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm ; therefore , patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol and chlorthalidone therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely .
Because calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides , atenolol and chlorthalidone should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function .
Pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands , with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia , have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy ; however , the common complications of hyperparathyroidism such as renal lithiasis , bone resorption , and peptic ulceration have not been seen .
Hyperuricemia may occur , or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol and chlorthalidone should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma .
Pregnancy and Fetal Injury Atenolol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Atenolol crosses the placental barrier and appears in cord blood .
Administration of atenolol , starting in the second trimester of pregnancy , has been associated with the birth of infants that are small for gestational age .
No studies have been performed on the use of atenolol in the first trimester and the possibility of fetal injury cannot be excluded .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving atenolol at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia .
Caution should be exercised when atenolol and chlorthalidone is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers . )
Atenolol and chlorthalidone was studied for teratogenic potential in the rat and rabbit .
Doses of atenolol / chlorthalidone of 8 / 2 mg / kg / day , 80 / 20 mg / kg / day , and 240 / 60 mg / kg / day were administered orally to pregnant rats with no evidence of embryo fetotoxicity observed .
Two studies were conducted in rabbits .
In the first study , pregnant rabbits were dosed with 8 / 2 mg / kg / day , 80 / 20 mg / kg / day , and 160 / 40 mg / kg / day of atenolol / chlorthalidone .
No teratogenic effects were noted , but embryonic resorptions were observed at all dose levels ( ranging from approximately 5 times to 100 times the maximum recommended human dose * ) .
In the second rabbit study , doses of atenolol / chlorthalidone were 4 / 1 mg / kg / day , 8 / 2 mg / kg / day , and 20 / 5 mg / kg / day .
No teratogenic or embryotoxic effects were demonstrated .
Atenolol Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose - related increase in embryo / fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg / kg / day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * .
Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits , the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg / kg / day or 12 . 5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * .
Chlorthalidone Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
The use of chlorthalidone and related drugs in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus .
These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult .
* Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg / day in a 50 kg patient .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone may aggravate peripheral arterial circulatory disorders .
ELECTROLYTE AND FLUID BALANCE STATUS Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Patients should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ; i . e . , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance include dryness of the mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Measurement of potassium levels is appropriate especially in elderly patients , those receiving digitalis preparations for cardiac failure , patients whose dietary intake of potassium is abnormally low , or those suffering from gastrointestinal complaints .
Hypokalemia may develop especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or during concomitant use of corticosteroids or ACTH .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia can sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis ( e . g . , increased ventricular irritability ) .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by use of potassium supplements or foods with a high potassium content .
Any chloride deficit during thiazide therapy is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly .
Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor ( e . g . , reserpine ) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo , syncope or postural hypotension .
Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone .
( See WARNINGS . )
Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects .
Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia , asystole and heart failure when administered with beta - blockers .
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta - blockers .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine .
This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine .
Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs , e . g . , indomethacin , may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta - blockers .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone .
Beta - blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
If the two drugs are coadministered , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine .
If replacing clonidine by beta - blocker therapy , the introduction of beta - blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped .
While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
OTHER PRECAUTIONS In patients receiving thiazides , sensitivity reactions may occur with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possible exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
The antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Two long - term ( maximum dosing duration of 18 or 24 months ) rat studies and one long - term ( maximum dosing duration of 18 months ) mouse study , each employing dose levels as high as 300 mg / kg / day or 150 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * , did not indicate a carcinogenic potential of atenolol .
A third ( 24 month ) rat study , employing doses of 500 mg / kg / day and 1 , 500 mg / kg / day ( 250 and 750 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * ) resulted in increased incidences of benign adrenal medullary tumors in males and females , mammary fibroadenomas in females , and anterior pituitary adenomas and thyroid parafollicular cell carcinomas in males .
No evidence of a mutagenic potential of atenolol was uncovered in the dominant lethal test ( mouse ) , in vivo cytogenetics test ( Chinese hamster ) or Ames test ( S typhimurium ) .
Fertility of male or female rats ( evaluated at dose levels as high as 200 mg / kg / day or 100 times the maximum recommended human dose * ) was unaffected by atenolol administration .
* Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg / day in a 50 kg patient .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Six month oral administration studies were conducted in rats and dogs using atenolol and chlorthalidone doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( atenolol / chlorthalidone 10 / 2 . 5 mg / kg / day -- approximately five times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * ) .
There were no functional or morphological abnormalities resulting from dosing either compound alone or together other than minor changes in heart rate , blood pressure and urine chemistry which were attributed to the known pharmacologic properties of atenolol and / or chlorthalidone .
Chronic studies of atenolol performed in animals have revealed the occurrence of vacuolation of epithelial cells of Brunner ' s glands in the duodenum of both male and female dogs at all tested dose levels ( starting at 15 mg / kg / day or 7 . 5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * ) and increased incidence of atrial degeneration of hearts of male rats at 300 mg atenolol / kg / day but not 150 mg atenolol / kg / day ( 150 and 75 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose , * respectively ) .
* Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg / day in a 50 kg patient .
PREGNANCY See WARNINGS - Pregnancy and Fetal Injury .
NURSING MOTHERS Atenolol is excreted in human breast milk at a ratio of 1 . 5 to 6 . 8 when compared to the concentration in plasma .
Caution should be exercised when atenolol is administered to a nursing woman .
Clinically significant bradycardia has been reported in breastfed infants .
Premature infants , or infants with impaired renal function , may be more likely to develop adverse effects .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving atenolol at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia .
Caution should be exercised when atenolol and chlorthalidone is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding .
( See WARNINGS , Pregnancy and Fetal Injury . )
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of atenolol and chlorthalidone did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients .
Most adverse effects have been mild and transient .
The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components .
Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient ( US studies ) or elicited , e . g . , by checklist ( foreign studies ) .
The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo - treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered .
Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar , causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain .
Volunteered ( US Studies ) Total − Volunteered and Elicited ( Foreign + US Studies ) Atenolol ( n = 164 ) Placebo ( n = 206 ) Atenolol ( n = 399 ) Placebo ( n = 407 ) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 ColdExtremities 0 0 . 5 12 5 PosturalHypotension 2 1 4 5 LegPain 0 0 . 5 3 1 CENTRALNERVOUSSYSTEM / NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0 . 5 2 0 . 2 Light - Headedness 1 0 3 0 . 7 Tiredness 0 . 6 0 . 5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0 . 7 Drowsiness 0 . 6 0 2 0 . 5 Depression 0 . 6 0 . 5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY ( seeWARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0 . 6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience , the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug : elevated liver enzymes and / or bilirubin , hallucinations , headache , impotence , Peyronie ' s disease , postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope , psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis , psychoses , purpura , reversible alopecia , thrombocytopenia , visual disturbance , sick sinus syndrome , and dry mouth .
Atenolol and chlorthalidone , like other beta - blockers , has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies ( ANA ) , lupus syndrome , and Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular : orthostatic hypotension ; Gastrointestinal : anorexia , gastric irritation , vomiting , cramping , constipation , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , pancreatitis ; CNS : vertigo , paresthesia , xanthopsia ; Hematologic : leukopenia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia , aplastic anemia ; Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , rash , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis ) ( cutaneous vasculitis ) , Lyell ' s syndrome ( toxic epidermal necrolysis ) ; Miscellaneous : hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia , muscle spasm , weakness , restlessness .
Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States ( 89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone ) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects .
POTENTIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS In addition , a variety of adverse effects not observed in clinical trials with atenolol but reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be considered potential adverse effects of atenolol .
Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , decreased performance on neuropsychometrics ; Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) ; Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis ; Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ; Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm and respiratory distress .
Miscellaneous There have been reports of skin rashes and / or dry eyes associated with the use of beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
The reported incidence is small , and , in most cases , the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn .
Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable .
Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with atenolol .
Furthermore , a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to atenolol therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novitium Pharma , LLC at 1 - 855 - 204 - 1431 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of atenolol and chlorthalidone .
The changes in laboratory parameters were not progressive and usually were not associated with clinical manifestations .
The most common changes were increases in uric acid and decreases in serum potassium .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available with regard to overdosage and atenolol and chlorthalidone in humans .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive and directed to the removal of any unabsorbed drug by induced emesis , or administration of activated charcoal .
Atenolol can be removed from the general circulation by hemodialysis .
Further consideration should be given to dehydration , electrolyte imbalance and hypotension by established procedures .
Atenolol Overdosage with atenolol has been reported with patients surviving acute doses as high as 5 g .
One death was reported in a man who may have taken as much as 10 g acutely .
The predominant symptoms reported following atenolol overdose are lethargy , disorder of respiratory drive , wheezing , sinus pause , and bradycardia .
Additionally , common effects associated with overdosage of any beta - adrenergic blocking agent are congestive heart failure , hypotension , bronchospasm , and / or hypoglycemia .
Other treatment modalities should be employed at the physician ' s discretion and may include : BRADYCARDIA : Atropine 1 mg to 2 mg intravenously .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , give isoproterenol cautiously .
In refractory cases , a transvenous cardiac pacemaker may be indicated .
Glucagon in a 10 mg intravenous bolus has been reported to be useful .
If required , this may be repeated or followed by an intravenous infusion of glucagon 1 mg / h to 10 mg / h depending on response .
HEART BLOCK ( SECOND OR THIRD DEGREE ) : Isoproterenol or transvenous pacemaker .
CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE : Digitalize the patient and administer a diuretic .
Glucagon has been reported to be useful .
HYPOTENSION : Vasopressors such as dopamine or norepinephrine ( levarterenol ) .
Monitor blood pressure continuously .
BRONCHOSPASM : A beta2 - stimulant such as isoproterenol or terbutaline and / or aminophylline .
HYPOGLYCEMIA : Intravenous glucose .
ELECTROLYTE DISTURBANCE : Monitor electrolyte levels and renal function .
Institute measures to maintain hydration and electrolytes .
Based on the severity of symptoms , management may require intensive support care and facilities for applying cardiac and respiratory support .
Chlorthalidone Symptoms of chlorthalidone overdose include nausea , weakness , dizziness and disturbances of electrolyte balance .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE . )
Chlorthalidone is usually given at a dose of 25 mg daily ; the usual initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg daily .
Therefore , the initial dose should be one Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablet , USP 50 mg / 25 mg given once a day .
If an optimal response is not achieved , the dosage should be increased to one Atenolol and Chlorthalidone Tablet , USP 100 mg / 25 mg given once a day .
When necessary , another antihypertensive agent may be added gradually beginning with 50 percent of the usual recommended starting dose to avoid an excessive fall in blood pressure .
Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys , dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function .
No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( normal range is 100 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 to 150 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) ; therefore , the following maximum dosages are recommended for patients with renal impairment .
Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half - Life ( hrs ) Maximum Dosage 15 - 35 16 - 27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 50 mg every other day HOW SUPPLIED Atenolol and Chlorthalidone tablets , USP 50 mg / 25 mg ( atenolol , USP 50 mg and chlorthalidone , USP 25 mg ) are white to off - white , round , biconvex , uncoated tablets , bisected on one side and debossed with “ N 390 ” on the other side , supplied in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 70954 - 390 - 10 ) .
Atenolol and Chlorthalidone tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg ( atenolol , USP 100 mg and chlorthalidone , USP 25 mg ) , are white to off - white , round , biconvex , uncoated tablets , debossed with " N " on one side and " 391 " on other side , supplied in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 70954 - 391 - 10 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Dispense in well - closed , light - resistant containers .
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Novitium Pharma LLC 70 Lake Drive , East Windsor New Jersey 08520 Issued : 10 / 2021 LB4403 - 00 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Atenolol and Chlorthalidone tablets , USP 50 mg / 25 mg Container label - 100 counts [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atenolol and Chlorthalidone tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg Container label - 100 counts [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
