Buspirone hydrochloride tablets , USP are an antianxiety agent that is not chemically or pharmacologically related to the benzodiazepines , barbiturates , or other sedative / anxiolytic drugs .
Buspirone hydrochloride , USP is a white crystalline powder .
It is very soluble in water ; freely soluble in methanol and in methylene chloride ; sparingly soluble in ethanol and in acetonitrile ; very slightly soluble in ethyl acetate and practically insoluble in hexanes .
Its molecular weight is 422 .
Chemically , buspirone hydrochloride is 8 - [ 4 - [ 4 - ( 2 - pyrimidinyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] butyl ] - 8 - azaspiro [ 4 . 5 ] decane - 7 , 9 - dione monohydrochloride .
The molecular formula C21H31N5O2 • HCl is represented by the following structural formula : Structural formula Each buspirone hydrochloride tablet intended for oral administration contains 5 mg or 10 mg or 15 mg or 30 mg buspirone hydrochloride ( equivalent to 4 . 6 mg , 9 . 1 mg , 13 . 7 mg , and 27 . 4 mg of buspirone free base , respectively ) .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and sodium starch glycolate .
The 5 mg and 10 mg tablets are scored so they can be bisected .
Thus , the 5 mg tablet can also provide 2 . 5 mg dose , and the 10 mg tablet can provide a 5 mg dose .
The 15 mg and 30 mg tablets are scored so they can be either bisected or trisected .
Thus , a single 15 mg tablet can provide the following doses : 15 mg ( entire tablet ) , 10 mg ( two thirds of a tablet ) , 7 . 5 mg ( one half of a tablet ) , or 5 mg ( one third of a tablet ) .
A single 30 mg tablet can provide the following doses : 30 mg ( entire tablet ) , 20 mg ( two thirds of a tablet ) , 15 mg ( one half of a tablet ) , or 10 mg ( one third of a tablet ) .
The mechanism of action of buspirone is unknown .
Buspirone differs from typical benzodiazepine anxiolytics in that it does not exert anticonvulsant or muscle relaxant effects .
It also lacks the prominent sedative effect that is associated with more typical anxiolytics .
In vitro preclinical studies have shown that buspirone has a high affinity for serotonin ( 5 - HT1A ) receptors .
Buspirone has no significant affinity for benzodiazepine receptors and does not affect GABA binding in vitro or in vivo when tested in preclinical models .
Buspirone has moderate affinity for brain D2 - dopamine receptors .
Some studies do suggest that buspirone may have indirect effects on other neurotransmitter systems .
Buspirone hydrochloride is rapidly absorbed in man and undergoes extensive first - pass metabolism .
In a radiolabeled study , unchanged buspirone in the plasma accounted for only about 1 % of the radioactivity in the plasma .
Following oral administration , plasma concentrations of unchanged buspirone are very low and variable between subjects .
Peak plasma levels of 1 ng / mL to 6 ng / mL have been observed 40 to 90 minutes after single oral doses of 20 mg .
The single - dose bioavailability of unchanged buspirone when taken as a tablet is on the average about 90 % of an equivalent dose of solution , but there is large variability .
The effects of food upon the bioavailability of buspirone hydrochloride tablets have been studied in eight subjects .
They were given a 20 mg dose with and without food ; the area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of unchanged buspirone increased by 84 % and 116 % , respectively , but the total amount of buspirone immunoreactive material did not change .
This suggests that food may decrease the extent of presystemic clearance of buspirone ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
A multiple - dose study conducted in 15 subjects suggests that buspirone has nonlinear pharmacokinetics .
Thus , dose increases and repeated dosing may lead to somewhat higher blood levels of unchanged buspirone than would be predicted from results of single - dose studies .
An in vitro protein binding study indicated that approximately 86 % of buspirone is bound to plasma proteins .
It was also observed that aspirin increased the plasma levels of free buspirone by 23 % , while flurazepam decreased the plasma levels of free buspirone by 20 % .
However , it is not known whether these drugs cause similar effects on plasma levels of free buspirone in vivo , or whether such changes , if they do occur , cause clinically significant differences in treatment outcome .
An in vitro study indicated that buspirone did not displace highly protein - bound drugs such as phenytoin , warfarin , and propranolol from plasma protein , and that buspirone may displace digoxin .
Buspirone is metabolized primarily by oxidation , which in vitro has been shown to be mediated by cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Several hydroxylated derivatives and a pharmacologically active metabolite , 1 - pyrimidinylpiperazine ( 1 - PP ) , are produced .
In animal models predictive of anxiolytic potential , 1 - PP has about one quarter of the activity of buspirone , but is present in up to 20 - fold greater amounts .
However , this is probably not important in humans : blood samples from humans chronically exposed to buspirone hydrochloride do not exhibit high levels of 1 - PP ; mean values are approximately 3 ng / mL and the highest human blood level recorded among 108 chronically dosed patients was 17 ng / mL , less than 1 / 200 th of 1 - PP levels found in animals given large doses of buspirone without signs of toxicity .
In a single - dose study using 14 C - labeled buspirone , 29 % to 63 % of the dose was excreted in the urine within 24 hours , primarily as metabolites ; fecal excretion accounted for 18 % to 38 % of the dose .
The average elimination half - life of unchanged buspirone after single doses of 10 mg to 40 mg is about 2 to 3 hours .
Special Populations : Age and Gender Effects : After single or multiple doses in adults , no significant differences in buspirone pharmacokinetics ( AUC and Cmax ) were observed between elderly and younger subjects or between men and women .
Hepatic Impairment : After multiple - dose administration of buspirone to patients with hepatic impairment , steady - state AUC of buspirone increased 13 - fold compared with healthy subjects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Renal Impairment : After multiple - dose administration of buspirone to renally impaired ( Clcr = 10 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) patients , steady - state AUC of buspirone increased 4 - fold compared with healthy ( Clcr ≥ 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) subjects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Race Effects : The effects of race on the pharmacokinetics of buspirone have not been studied .
Buspirone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The efficacy of buspirone hydrochloride tablets have been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials of outpatients whose diagnosis roughly corresponds to Generalized Anxiety Disorder ( GAD ) .
Many of the patients enrolled in these studies also had coexisting depressive symptoms and buspirone hydrochloride tablets relieved anxiety in the presence of these coexisting depressive symptoms .
The patients evaluated in these studies had experienced symptoms for periods of 1 month to over 1 year prior to the study , with an average symptom duration of 6 months .
Generalized Anxiety Disorder ( 300 . 02 ) is described in the American Psychiatric Association ’ s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual , III1 as follows : Generalized , persistent anxiety ( of at least 1 month continual duration ) , manifested by symptoms from three of the four following categories : 1 .
Motor tension : Shakiness , jitteriness , jumpiness , trembling , tension , muscle aches , fatigability , inability to relax , eyelid twitch , furrowed brow , strained face , fidgeting , restlessness , easy startle .
2 .
Autonomic hyperactivity : Sweating , heart pounding or racing , cold , clammy hands , dry mouth , dizziness , lightheadedness , paresthesias ( tingling in hands or feet ) , upset stomach , hot or cold spells , frequent urination , diarrhea , discomfort in the pit of the stomach , lump in the throat , flushing , pallor , high resting pulse and respiration rate .
3 .
Apprehensive expectation : Anxiety , worry , fear , rumination , and anticipation of misfortune to self or others .
4 .
Vigilance and scanning : Hyperattentiveness resulting in distractibility , difficulty in concentrating , insomnia , feeling " on edge , " irritability , impatience .
The above symptoms would not be due to another mental disorder , such as a depressive disorder or schizophrenia .
However , mild depressive symptoms are common in GAD .
The effectiveness of buspirone hydrochloride tablets in long - term use , that is , for more than 3 to 4 weeks , has not been demonstrated in controlled trials .
There is no body of evidence available that systematically addresses the appropriate duration of treatment for GAD .
However , in a study of long - term use , 264 patients were treated with buspirone hydrochloride tablets for 1 year without ill effect .
Therefore , the physician who elects to use buspirone hydrochloride tablets for extended periods should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
Buspirone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to buspirone hydrochloride .
The administration of buspirone hydrochloride tablets to a patient taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) may pose a hazard .
There have been reports of the occurrence of elevated blood pressure when buspirone hydrochloride tablets have been added to a regimen including an MAOI .
Therefore , it is recommended that buspirone hydrochloride tablets not be used concomitantly with an MAOI .
Because buspirone hydrochloride tablets have no established antipsychotic activity , it should not be employed in lieu of appropriate antipsychotic treatment .
General : Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance : Studies indicate that buspirone hydrochloride tablets are less sedating than other anxiolytics and that it does not produce significant functional impairment .
However , its CNS effects in any individual patient may not be predictable .
Therefore , patients should be cautioned about operating an automobile or using complex machinery until they are reasonably certain that buspirone treatment does not affect them adversely .
While formal studies of the interaction of buspirone hydrochloride with alcohol indicate that buspirone does not increase alcohol - induced impairment in motor and mental performance , it is prudent to avoid concomitant use of alcohol and buspirone .
Potential for Withdrawal Reactions in Sedative / Hypnotic / Anxiolytic Drug - Dependent Patients : Because buspirone hydrochloride tablets do not exhibit cross - tolerance with benzodiazepines and other common sedative / hypnotic drugs , it will not block the withdrawal syndrome often seen with cessation of therapy with these drugs .
Therefore , before starting therapy with buspirone hydrochloride tablets , it is advisable to withdraw patients gradually , especially patients who have been using a CNS - depressant drug chronically , from their prior treatment .
Rebound or withdrawal symptoms may occur over varying time periods , depending in part on the type of drug , and its effective half - life of elimination .
The syndrome of withdrawal from sedative / hypnotic / anxiolytic drugs can appear as any combination of irritability , anxiety , agitation , insomnia , tremor , abdominal cramps , muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , flu - like symptoms without fever , and occasionally , even as seizures .
Possible Concerns Related to Buspirone ’ s Binding to Dopamine Receptors : Because buspirone can bind to central dopamine receptors , a question has been raised about its potential to cause acute and chronic changes in dopamine - mediated neurological function ( e . g . , dystonia , pseudo - parkinsonism , akathisia , and tardive dyskinesia ) .
Clinical experience in controlled trials has failed to identify any significant neuroleptic - like activity ; however , a syndrome of restlessness , appearing shortly after initiation of treatment , has been reported in some small fraction of buspirone - treated patients .
The syndrome may be explained in several ways .
For example , buspirone may increase central noradrenergic activity ; alternatively , the effect may be attributable to dopaminergic effects ( i . e . , represent akathisia ) .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Postmarketing Experience .
Information for Patients : To assure safe and effective use of buspirone hydrochloride tablets , the following information and instructions should be given to patients : Inform your physician about any medications , prescription or non - prescription , alcohol , or drugs that you are now taking or plan to take during your treatment with buspirone hydrochloride tablets .
Inform your physician if you are pregnant , or if you are planning to become pregnant , or if you become pregnant while you are taking buspirone hydrochloride tablets .
Inform your physician if you are breastfeeding an infant .
Until you experience how this medication affects you , do not drive a car or operate potentially dangerous machinery .
You should take buspirone hydrochloride consistently , either always with or always without food .
During your treatment with buspirone hydrochloride tablets , avoid drinking large amounts of grapefruit juice .
Laboratory Tests : There are no specific laboratory tests recommended .
Drug Interactions : Psychotropic Agents : MAO inhibitors : It is recommended that buspirone hydrochloride tablets not be used concomitantly with MAO inhibitors ( see WARNINGS ) .
Amitriptyline : After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen , no statistically significant differences in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters ( Cmax , AUC , and Cmin ) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed .
Diazepam : After addition of buspirone to the diazepam dose regimen , no statistically significant differences in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters ( Cmax , AUC , and Cmin ) were observed for diazepam , but increases of about 15 % were seen for nordiazepam , and minor adverse clinical effects ( dizziness , headache , and nausea ) were observed .
Haloperidol : In a study in normal volunteers , concomitant administration of buspirone and haloperidol resulted in increased serum haloperidol concentrations .
The clinical significance of this finding is not clear .
Nefazodone : [ see Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) ] .
Trazodone : There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of Desyrel ® # ( trazodone hydrochloride ) and buspirone may have caused 3 - to 6 - fold elevations on SGPT ( ALT ) in a few patients .
In a similar study attempting to replicate this finding , no interactive effect on hepatic transaminases was identified .
Triazolam / Flurazepam : Coadministration of buspirone with either triazolam or flurazepam did not appear to prolong or intensify the sedative effects of either benzodiazepine .
Other Psychotropics : Because the effects of concomitant administration of buspirone with most other psychotropic drugs have not been studied , the concomitant use of buspirone with other CNS - active drugs should be approached with caution .
Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) : Buspirone has been shown in vitro to be metabolized by CYP3A4 .
This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following : Diltiazem and Verapamil : In a study of nine healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 10 mg as a single dose ) with verapamil ( 80 mg t . i . d . ) or diltiazem ( 60 mg t . i . d . ) increased plasma buspirone concentrations ( verapamil increased AUC and Cmax of buspirone 3 . 4 - fold while diltiazem increased AUC and Cmax 5 . 5 - fold and 4 - fold , respectively . )
Adverse events attributable to buspirone may be more likely during concomitant administration with either diltiazem or verapamil .
Subsequent dose adjustment may be necessary and should be based on clinical assessment .
Erythromycin : In a study in healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 10 mg as a single dose ) with erythromycin ( 1 . 5 g / day for 4 days ) increased plasma buspirone concentrations ( 5 - fold increase in Cmax and 6 - fold increase in AUC ) .
These pharmacokinetic interactions were accompanied by an increased incidence of side effects attributable to buspirone .
If the two drugs are to be used in combination , a low dose of buspirone ( e . g . , 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . ) is recommended .
Subsequent dose adjustment of either drug should be based on clinical assessment .
Grapefruit Juice : In a study in healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 10 mg as a single dose ) with grapefruit juice ( 200 mL double - strength t . i . d . for 2 days ) increased plasma buspirone concentrations ( 4 . 3 - fold increase in Cmax ; 9 . 2 - fold increase in AUC ) .
Patients receiving buspirone should be advised to avoid drinking such large amounts of grapefruit juice .
Itraconazole : In a study in healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 10 mg as a single dose ) with itraconazole ( 200 mg / day for 4 days ) increased plasma buspirone concentrations ( 13 - fold increase in Cmax and 19 - fold increase in AUC ) .
These pharmacokinetic interactions were accompanied by an increased incidence of side effects attributable to buspirone .
If the two drugs are to be used in combination , a low dose of buspirone ( e . g . , 2 . 5 mg q . d . ) is recommended .
Subsequent dose adjustment of either drug should be based on clinical assessment .
Nefazodone : In a study of steady - state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 2 . 5 or 5 mg b . i . d . ) with nefazodone ( 250 mg b . i . d . ) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations ( increases up to 20 - fold in Cmax and up to 50 - fold in AUC ) and statistically significant decreases ( about 50 % ) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1 - PP .
With 5 mg b . i . d . doses of buspirone , slight increases in AUC were observed for nefazodone ( 23 % ) and its metabolites hydroxynefazodone ( HO - NEF ) ( 17 % ) and meta - chlorophenylpiperazine ( 9 % ) .
Slight increases in Cmax were observed for nefazodone ( 8 % ) and its metabolite HO - NEF ( 11 % ) .
Subjects receiving buspirone 5 mg b . i . d . and nefazodone 250 mg b . i . d experienced lightheadedness , asthenia , dizziness , and somnolence , adverse events also observed with either drug alone .
If the two drugs are to be used in combination , a low dose of buspirone ( e . g . , 2 . 5 mg q . d . ) is recommended .
Subsequent dose adjustment of either drug should be based on clinical assessment .
Rifampin : In a study in healthy volunteers , coadministration of buspirone ( 30 mg as a single dose ) with rifampin ( 600 mg / day for 5 days ) decreased the plasma concentrations ( 83 . 7 % decrease in Cmax ; 89 . 6 % decrease in AUC ) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone .
If the two drugs are to be used in combination , the dosage of buspirone may need adjusting to maintain anxiolytic effect .
Other Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4 : Substances that inhibit CYP3A4 , such as ketoconazole or ritonavir , may inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone while substances that induce CYP3A4 , such as dexamethasone , or certain anticonvulsants ( phenytoin , phenobarbital , carbamazepine ) , may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism .
If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on buspirone , a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to avoid adverse events attributable to buspirone or diminished anxiolytic activity .
Consequently , when administered with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , a low dose of buspirone used cautiously is recommended .
When used in combination with a potent inducer of CYP3A4 the dosage of buspirone may need adjusting to maintain anxiolytic effect .
Other Drugs : Cimetidine : Coadministration of buspirone with cimetidine was found to increase Cmax ( 40 % ) and Tmax ( 2 – fold ) , but had minimal effects on the AUC of buspirone .
Protein Binding : In vitro , buspirone does not displace tightly bound drugs like phenytoin , propranolol , and warfarin from serum proteins .
However , there has been one report of prolonged prothrombin time when buspirone was added to the regimen of a patient treated with warfarin .
The patient was also chronically receiving phenytoin , phenobarbital , digoxin , and Synthroid ® * .
In vitro , buspirone may displace less firmly bound drugs like digoxin .
The clinical significance of this property is unknown .
Therapeutic levels of aspirin , desipramine , diazepam , flurazepam , ibuprofen , propranolol , thioridazine , and tolbutamide had only a limited effect on the extent of binding of buspirone to plasma proteins ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Buspirone hydrochloride may interfere with the urinary metanephrine / catecholamine assay .
It has been mistakenly read as metanephrine during routine assay testing for pheochromocytoma , resulting in a false positive laboratory result .
Buspirone hydrochloride should therefore be discontinued for at least 48 hours prior to undergoing a urine collection for catecholamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in rats during a 24 month study at approximately 133 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ; or in mice , during an 18 month study at approximately 167 times the maximum recommended human oral dose .
With or without metabolic activation , buspirone did not induce point mutations in five strains of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames Test ) or mouse lymphoma L5178YTK + cell cultures , nor was DNA damage observed with buspirone in Wi - 38 human cells .
Chromosomal aberrations or abnormalities did not occur in bone marrow cells of mice given one or five daily doses of buspirone .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B : No fertility impairment or fetal damage was observed in reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits at buspirone doses of approximately 30 times the maximum recommended human dose .
In humans , however , adequate and well - controlled studies during pregnancy have not been performed .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery : The effect of buspirone hydrochloride on labor and delivery in women is unknown .
No adverse effects were noted in reproduction studies in rats .
Nursing Mothers : The extent of the excretion in human milk of buspirone or its metabolites is not known .
In rats , however , buspirone and its metabolites are excreted in milk .
Buspirone hydrochloride tablets administration to nursing women should be avoided if clinically possible .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of buspirone were evaluated in two placebo - controlled 6 week trials involving a total of 559 pediatric patients ( ranging from 6 to 17 years of age ) with GAD .
Doses studied were 7 . 5 mg to 30 mg b . i . d . ( 15 to 60 mg / day ) .
There were no significant differences between buspirone and placebo with regard to the symptoms of GAD following doses recommended for the treatment of GAD in adults .
Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that , for identical doses , plasma exposure to buspirone and its active metabolite , 1 - PP , are equal to or higher in pediatric patients than adults .
No unexpected safety findings were associated with buspirone in these trials .
There are no long - term safety or efficacy data in this population .
Geriatric Use : In one study of 6632 patients who received buspirone for the treatment of anxiety , 605 patients were ≥ 65 years old and 41 were ≥ 75 years old ; the safety and efficacy profiles for these 605 elderly patients ( mean age = 70 . 8 years ) were similar to those in the younger population ( mean age = 43 . 3 years ) .
Review of spontaneously reported adverse clinical events has not identified differences between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older patients cannot be ruled out .
There were no effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of buspirone ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
Use in Patients With Impaired Hepatic or Renal Function : Buspirone is metabolized by the liver and excreted by the kidneys .
A pharmacokinetic study in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function demonstrated increased plasma levels and a lengthened half - life of buspirone .
Therefore , the administration of buspirone hydrochloride tablets to patients with severe hepatic or renal impairment cannot be recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Controlled Substance Class : Buspirone hydrochloride is not a controlled substance .
Physical and Psychological Dependence : In human and animal studies , buspirone has shown no potential for abuse or diversion and there is no evidence that it causes tolerance , or either physical or psychological dependence .
Human volunteers with a history of recreational drug or alcohol usage were studied in two doubleblind clinical investigations .
None of the subjects were able to distinguish between buspirone hydrochloride tablets and placebo .
By contrast , subjects showed a statistically significant preference for methaqualone and diazepam .
Studies in monkeys , mice , and rats have indicated that buspirone lacks potential for abuse .
Following chronic administration in the rat , abrupt withdrawal of buspirone did not result in the loss of body weight commonly observed with substances that cause physical dependency .
Although there is no direct evidence that buspirone hydrochloride tablets causes physical dependence or drug - seeking behavior , it is difficult to predict from experiments the extent to which a CNS - active drug will be misused , diverted , and / or abused once marketed .
Consequently , physicians should carefully evaluate patients for a history of drug abuse and follow such patients closely , observing them for signs of buspirone hydrochloride tablets misuse or abuse ( e . g . , development of tolerance , incrementation of dose , drug - seeking behavior ) .
Controlled Substance Class : Buspirone hydrochloride is not a controlled substance .
Physical and Psychological Dependence : In human and animal studies , buspirone has shown no potential for abuse or diversion and there is no evidence that it causes tolerance , or either physical or psychological dependence .
Human volunteers with a history of recreational drug or alcohol usage were studied in two doubleblind clinical investigations .
None of the subjects were able to distinguish between buspirone hydrochloride tablets and placebo .
By contrast , subjects showed a statistically significant preference for methaqualone and diazepam .
Studies in monkeys , mice , and rats have indicated that buspirone lacks potential for abuse .
Following chronic administration in the rat , abrupt withdrawal of buspirone did not result in the loss of body weight commonly observed with substances that cause physical dependency .
Although there is no direct evidence that buspirone hydrochloride tablets causes physical dependence or drug - seeking behavior , it is difficult to predict from experiments the extent to which a CNS - active drug will be misused , diverted , and / or abused once marketed .
Consequently , physicians should carefully evaluate patients for a history of drug abuse and follow such patients closely , observing them for signs of buspirone hydrochloride tablets misuse or abuse ( e . g . , development of tolerance , incrementation of dose , drug - seeking behavior ) .
The recommended initial dose is 15 mg daily ( 7 . 5 mg b . i . d . ) .
To achieve an optimal therapeutic response , at intervals of 2 to 3 days the dosage may be increased 5 mg per day , as needed .
The maximum daily dosage should not exceed 60 mg per day .
In clinical trials allowing dose titration , divided doses of 20 mg to 30 mg per day were commonly employed .
The bioavailability of buspirone is increased when given with food as compared to the fasted state ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Consequently , patients should take buspirone in a consistent manner with regard to the timing of dosing ; either always with or always without food .
When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactionssection should be followed .
Buspirone Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 5 mg are white to off - white , capsule - shaped , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets debossed with bisect on one side ; one side of bisect is debossed with ' ZE ' and another is debossed with ' 36 ' and other side is plain Patient Instruction Sheet Buspirone Hydrochloride Tablets , USP HOW TO USE For 15 mg and 30 mg tablets Response to buspirone varies among individuals .
Your physician may find it necessary to adjust your dosage to obtain the proper response .
Each tablet is scored and can be broken accurately to provide any of the following dosages .
Figure To break a tablet accurately and easily , hold the tablet between your thumbs and index fingers close to the appropriate tablet score ( groove ) as shown in the photo .
Then , with the tablet score facing you , apply pressure and snap the tablet segments apart ( segments breaking incorrectly should not be used ) .
figure Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
