DESCRIPTION Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP is a nonaqueous solution of glacial acetic acid , USP ( 2 % ) , in a propylene glycol vehicle containing benzethonium chloride , USP ( 0 . 02 % ) ; propylene glycol diacetate , NF ( 3 % ) and sodium acetate , USP ( 0 . 015 % ) .
It may also contain citric acid , USP .
The molecular formula for acetic acid is CH3COOH , with a molecular weight of 60 . 05 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetic Acid Otic Solution is available as a nonaqueous otic solution buffered at pH 3 for use in the external ear canal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acetic acid is anti - bacterial and anti - fungal ; propylene glycol is hydrophilic and provides a low surface tension ; benzethonium chloride is a surface active agent that promotes contact of the solution with tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of superficial infections of the external auditory canal caused by organisms susceptible to the action of the antimicrobial .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Acetic Acid Otic Solution or any of the ingredients .
Perforated tympanic membrane is considered a contraindication to the use of any medication in the external ear canal .
WARNINGS Discontinue promptly if sensitization or irritation occurs .
PRECAUTIONS Transient stinging or burning may be noted occasionally when the solution is first instilled into the acutely inflamed ear .
Pediatric Use Safety and Effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Stinging or burning may be noted occasionally ; local irritation has occurred very rarely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully remove all cerumen and debris to allow Acetic Acid Otic Solution to contact infected surfaces directly .
To promote continuous contact , insert a wick of cotton saturated with the solution into the ear canal ; the wick may also be saturated after insertion .
Instruct the patient to keep the wick in for at least 24 hours and to keep it moist by adding 3 to 5 drops of the solution every 4 to 6 hours .
The wick may be removed after 24 hours but the patient should continue to instill 5 drops of Acetic Acid Otic Solution 3 or 4 times daily thereafter , for as long as indicated .
In pediatric patients , 3 to 4 drops may be sufficient due to the smaller capacity of the ear canal .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50436 - 4600 NDC : 50436 - 4600 - 1 15 mL in a BOTTLE ACETIC ACID SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
