Active ingredients Menthol 3 % Methyl salicylate 10 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • strains • sprains • bruises • simple backache • arthritis Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : If prone to allergic reaction from aspirin or salicylates , consult a doctor before use .
Flammable : • keep away from fire or flame • do not use where sparks come out • do not use in a confined space • do not puncture or incinerate container .
Contents under pressure .
• do not expose to temperature exceeding 120 degrees F ( 48 degrees C ) Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes , mucous membranes or rashes • do not bandage tightly • avoid inhalation Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin reactions such as redness , itching , rash , excessive irritation , burning sensation , swelling or blistering occur • conditions worsen • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • shake the can very well before use • to avoid frostbite , hold the can 4 inches ( 10 cm ) away from the skin , and spray each affected area for no longer than 1 second • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 12 years of age : consult a docutor Other information • Avoid storing product in direct sunlight and heat Inactive ingredient alcohol Questions or comments ?
Toll free 1 - 800 - 826 - 8861 www . salonpas . us Principal Display Panel Hisamitsu Salonpas Pain Relieving JET SPRAY NDC # 46581 - 440 - 04 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) MADE IN JAPAN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC # 46581 - 440 - 99 FREE SAMPLE NOT FOR RE - SALE Salonpas pain relieving JET SPRAY 1 FL OZ ( 29 . 5 mL ) Hisamitsu Distributed by Hisamitsu America , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
