DESCRIPTION SECTION The active ingredient in Ondansetron Tablets , USP is ondansetron hydrochloride ( HCl ) as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ondansetron HCl dihydrate is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline .
Each 4 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Each 8 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide , triacetin , and iron oxide yellow ( 8 mg tablet only ) .
Product meets USP Drug Release Test 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION Pharmacodynamics Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ’ s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
In animals , the emetic response to cisplatin can be prevented by pretreatment with an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis , bilateral abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnic nerve section , or pretreatment with a serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
In normal volunteers , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in normal volunteers .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
Pharmacokinetics Ondansetron is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 - mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
AUC from a 16 - mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 - mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food but unaffected by antacids .
Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , reduction in AUC , Cmax , and T ½ of ondansetron was observed . 1 This resulted in a significant increase in clearance .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of ondansetron ' s absorption is greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron levels .
These higher plasma levels may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these gender - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 1 and 2 taken from 2 studies .
Age - group ( years ) MeanWeight ( kg ) n Peak PlasmaConcentration ( ng / mL ) Time ofPeak PlasmaConcentration ( h ) MeanEliminationHalf - life ( h ) SystemicPlasmaClearanceL / h / kg AbsoluteBioavailability 18 - 40 M F 69 . 062 . 7 65 26 . 242 . 7 2 . 01 . 7 3 . 13 . 5 0 . 4030 . 354 0 . 4830 . 663 61 - 74 M F 77 . 560 . 2 65 24 . 152 . 4 2 . 11 . 9 4 . 14 . 9 0 . 3840 . 255 0 . 5850 . 643 ≥ 75 M F 78 . 067 . 6 56 37 . 046 . 1 2 . 22 . 1 4 . 56 . 2 0 . 2770 . 249 0 . 6190 . 747 Age - group ( years ) MeanWeight ( kg ) n Peak PlasmaConcentration ( ng / mL ) Time ofPeak PlasmaConcentration ( h ) MeanEliminationHalf - life ( h ) 18 - 43 MF 84 . 171 . 8 88 125 . 8194 . 4 1 . 91 . 6 4 . 75 . 8 A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life are seen in patients over 75 years of age .
In clinical trials with cancer patients , safety and efficacy were similar in patients over 65 years of age and those under 65 years of age ; there was an insufficient number of patients over 75 years of age to permit conclusions in that age - group .
No dosage adjustment is recommended in the elderly .
In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared to 5 . 7 hours in normals .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
Due to the very small contribution ( 5 % ) of renal clearance to the overall clearance , renal impairment was not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron .
However , ondansetron oral mean plasma clearance was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
This reduction in clearance is variable and was not consistent with an increase in half - life .
No reduction in dose or dosing frequency in these patients is warranted .
Plasma protein binding of ondansetron as measured in vitro was 70 % to 76 % over the concentration range of 10 to 500 ng / mL .
Circulating drug also distributes into erythrocytes .
Four - and 8 - mg doses of either of ondansetron oral solution or ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are bioequivalent to corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets , USP and may be used interchangeably .
One 24 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP is bioequivalent to and interchangeable with three 8 - mg ondansetron tablets , USP .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting In 2 randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m in the historical placebo comparator experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg once a day , 8 mg twice a day , and 32 mg once a day in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 - mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 - mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 - mg once - a - day group completed the 24 - hour study period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving oral ondansetron 24 mg once a day experienced no nausea during the 24 - hour study period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 - mg twice - a - day group ( P = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 - mg once - a - day group .
In a second trial , efficacy of the oral ondansetron 24 - mg once - a - day regimen in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m , was confirmed .
In 1 double - blind US study in 67 patients , ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg administered twice a day were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 3 : a The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy . b Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes . c Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
Ondansetron 8 - mgb .
i . d . Ondansetron tablets , USPa Placebo P Value Number of patients 33 34 Treatment response0 Emetic episodes1 - 2 Emetic episodesMore than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 20 ( 61 % ) 6 ( 18 % ) 7 ( 21 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) 8 ( 24 % ) 24 ( 71 % ) < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Median number ofemetic episodes 0 . 0 Undefined b Median time to firstemetic episode ( h ) Undefined c 6 . 5 In 1 double - blind US study in 336 patients , ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg administered twice a day were as effective as ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 4 : a The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy . b The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP was administered 3 times a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy . c Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes . d Visual analog scale assessment : 0 = no nausea , 100 = nausea as bad as it can be .
Ondansetron 8 - mg b . i . d . Ondansetron tablets , USP a 8 - mg t . i . d . Ondansetron tablets , USP b Number of patients 165 171 Treatment response0 Emetic episodes1 - 2 Emetic episodesMore than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 101 ( 61 % ) 16 ( 10 % ) 48 ( 29 % ) 99 ( 58 % ) 17 ( 10 % ) 55 ( 32 % ) Median number of emetic episodes 0 . 0 0 . 0 Median time to first emetic episode ( h ) Undefined c Undefined c Median nausea scores ( 0 - 100 ) d 6 6 Re - treatment In uncontrolled trials , 148 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy were re - treated with ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg 3 times daily during subsequent chemotherapy for a total of 396 re - treatment courses .
No emetic episodes occurred in 314 ( 79 % ) of the re - treatment courses , and only 1 to 2 emetic episodes occurred in 43 ( 11 % ) of the re - treatment courses .
Three open - label , uncontrolled , foreign trials have been performed with 182 pediatric patients 4 to 18 years old with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens .
In these foreign trials , the initial dose of ondansetron hydrochloride injection ranged from 0 . 04 to 0 . 87 mg / kg for a total dose of 2 . 16 to 12 mg .
This was followed by the administration of ondansetron tablets , USP ranging from 4 to 24 mg daily for 3 days .
In these studies , 58 % of the 170 evaluable patients had a complete response ( no emetic episodes ) on day 1 .
Two studies showed the response rates for patients less than 12 years of age who received ondansetron tablets , USP 4 mg 3 times a day to be similar to those in patients 12 to 18 years of age who received ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg 3 times daily .
Thus , prevention of emesis in these pediatric patients was essentially the same as for patients older than 18 years of age .
Overall , ondansetron tablets , USP were well tolerated in these pediatric patients .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting In a randomized , double - blind study in 20 patients , ondansetron tablets , USP ( 8 mg given 1 . 5 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy for 4 days ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by total body irradiation .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions ( 120 cGy per fraction ) over 4 days for a total of 1 , 320 cGy .
Patients received 3 fractions for 3 days , then 2 fractions on day 4 .
Ondansetron was significantly more effective than metoclopramide with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 105 patients receiving single high - dose radiotherapy ( 800 to 1 , 000 cGy ) over an anterior or posterior field size of ≥ 80 cm to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets , USP ( 8 mg ) or metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy .
If radiotherapy was given in the morning , 2 additional doses of study treatment were given ( 1 tablet late afternoon and 1 tablet before bedtime ) .
If radiotherapy was given in the afternoon , patients took only 1 further tablet that day before bedtime .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis for 3 days .
Ondansetron was significantly more effective than prochlorperazine with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 135 patients receiving a 1 - to 4 - week course of fractionated radiotherapy ( 180 cGy doses ) over a field size of ≥ 100 cm to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets , USP ( 8 mg ) or prochlorperazine ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before the patient received the first daily radiotherapy fraction , with 2 subsequent doses on a 3 times a day basis .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis on each day of radiotherapy .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting Surgical patients who received ondansetron 1 hour before the induction of general balanced anesthesia ( barbiturate : thiopental , methohexital , or thiamylal ; opioid : alfentanil , sufentanil , morphine , or fentanyl ; nitrous oxide ; neuromuscular blockade : succinylcholine / curare or gallamine and / or vecuronium , pancuronium , or atracurium ; and supplemental isoflurane or enflurane ) were evaluated in 2 double - blind studies ( 1 US study , 1 foreign ) involving 865 patients .
Ondansetron tablets , USP ( 16 mg ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting .
The study populations in all trials thus far consisted of women undergoing inpatient surgical procedures .
No studies have been performed in males .
No controlled clinical study comparing ondansetron tablets , USP to ondansetron hydrochloride injection has been performed .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION • Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
• Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , ondansetron tablets , USP are recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION The concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron .
Ondansetron tablets , USP are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug WARNINGS SECTION Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONS SECTION General Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Drug Interactions Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( see ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron , concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated ( see ) .
In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol .
Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover studying 76 patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
Use in Surgical Patients The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Ondansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Little information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see sections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ( see ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron , the active ingredient of ondansetron tablets , USP .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron tablets , USP have been unclear in many cases .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m ) .
Event Ondansetron 24 mg q . d . n = 300 Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 124 Ondansetron32 mg q . d . n = 117 Headache 33 ( 11 % ) 16 ( 13 % ) 17 ( 15 % ) Diarrhea 13 ( 4 % ) 9 ( 7 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) The adverse events in Table 6 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adults receiving either 8 mg of ondansetron tablets , USP 2 or 3 times a day for 3 days or placebo in 4 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent moderately emetogenic chemotherapy , primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens .
Event Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 242 Ondansetron 8 mg t . i . d . n = 415 Placebon = 262 Headache 58 ( 24 % ) 113 ( 27 % ) 34 ( 13 % ) Malaise / fatigue 32 ( 13 % ) 37 ( 9 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) Constipation 22 ( 9 % ) 26 ( 6 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Diarrhea 15 ( 6 % ) 16 ( 4 % ) 10 ( 4 % ) Dizziness 13 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) 12 ( 5 % ) There have been rare reports consistent with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving ondansetron .
In 723 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials , AST and / or ALT values have been reported to exceed twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets , USP .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes cannot be clearly determined .
There have been reports of liver failure and death in patients with cancer receiving concurrent medications including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Rash has occurred in approximately 1 % of patients receiving ondansetron .
Rare cases of anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina ( chest pain ) , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures have been reported .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron tablets , USP were unclear .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The adverse events reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets , USP and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets , USP and concurrent chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The adverse events in Table 7 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets , USP at a dosage of 16 mg orally in clinical trials .
With the exception of headache , rates of these events were not significantly different in the ondansetron and placebo groups .
These patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications .
Adverse Event Ondansetron 16 mg ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 531 ) Wound problem 152 ( 28 % ) 162 ( 31 % ) Drowsiness / sedation 112 ( 20 % ) 122 ( 23 % ) Headache 49 ( 9 % ) 27 ( 5 % ) Hypoxia 49 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 7 % ) Pyrexia 45 ( 8 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Dizziness 36 ( 7 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Gynecological disorder 36 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 6 % ) Anxiety / agitation 33 ( 6 % ) 29 ( 5 % ) Bradycardia 32 ( 6 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Shiver ( s ) 28 ( 5 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Urinary retention 28 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 3 % ) Hypotension 27 ( 5 % ) 32 ( 6 % ) Pruritus 27 ( 5 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during post - approval use of oral formulations of ondansetron tablets , USP .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to ondansetron tablets , USP .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
Liver enzyme abnormalities Hiccups Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions Urticaria Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE SECTION Animal studies have shown that ondansetron is not discriminated as a benzodiazepine nor does it substitute for benzodiazepines in direct addiction studies .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets , USP .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron tablets , USP is 24 mg given as three 8 - mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
One 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is one 4 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP or one 4 - mg given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
One 4 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen The recommended oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP given 3 times a day .
For total body irradiation , one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
, one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron tablet , USP in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 - mg ondansetron tablets , USP 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron tablets , USP in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Renal Function The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
HOW SUPPLIED SECTION Ondansetron tablets , USP 4 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) , are white , oval , film - coated tablets debossed with " 4 " on one side and “ NO ” on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63304 - 458 - 30 Bottles of 30 Ondansetron tablets , USP 8 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) , are yellow , oval , film - coated tablets , debossed with " 8 " on one side and " NO " on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 63304 - 459 - 30 Bottles of 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
