Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose sunscreen sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your rish of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly ue a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , cetyl alcohol , steareth - 2 , disodium EDTA , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , oleth - 3 phosphate , benzyl alcohol , chlorphenesin Questions Questions ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Claims All - Day Moisturzing with Broad Spectruim SPF 15 Sunscreen for Sensitive Skin provides all - day moisture and provides long lasting moisture and UVA / UVB protection .
This formula is : • Enriched with Vitamin E and Aloe Vera • Non - greasy • Non - comedogenic - wo n't clog pores • Dermatologist tested • 100 % Aminobenzoic Acid ( PABA ) Free Moisturizing - Gives your skin a balance of moisturizing ingredients for healthy skin .
UVA / UVB Protection - Broad spectfum UVA and UVB protections with SPF 15 to help prevent premature sking damage .
Vitamins - This formula with antioxidant vitamin E plus aloe helps promote and maintain healthy - looking skin .
Results - Glowing , beautiful , healthy skin adverse reactions Satisfication guaranteed - or we ' ll replace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report a undesired reaction or side - effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Distributed by Wal - Mart Stores , Inc .
Bentonville , AR 72716 Wal - Mart Stores , Inc Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter + Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete all Day Moisture Lotion SPF 15 .
principal display panel equate Compare to Listerine Ultraclean Active Ingredients Tartar Control Plus Antiseptic Mouthrinse With Tartar Protection • Antigingivitis / Antiplaque • Fights plaque and gingivitis • Kill germs that cause the gum disease gingivitis • Controls tartar that can discolor teeth • For fresher breath Iceberg Blue 1 . 5 LIters ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
