1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AMZEEQ is indicated for the topical treatment of inflammatory lesions of non - nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 9 years of age and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , AMZEEQ should be used only as indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
AMZEEQ is a tetracycline - class drug indicated to treat inflammatory lesions of non - nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , AMZEEQ should be used only as indicated .
( 5 . 14 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
After shaking the can well , a small amount of topical foam ( e . g . a cherry - sized amount ) should be expressed from the can onto the fingertips of the hand and then rubbed into acne - affected parts of the face .
This should be repeated as needed until all acne - affected parts of the face are treated .
If acne is present on other parts of the patient ’ s body ( neck , shoulders , arms , back or chest ) , additional amounts of topical foam should also be applied to these areas .
The topical foam should be applied at approximately the same time each day at least 1 hour before bedtime .
The patient should not bathe , shower or swim for at least 1 hour after application of the product .
Apply AMZEEQ to affected areas once daily .
AMZEEQ should be gently rubbed into the skin .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical foam , 4 % Each gram of AMZEEQ contains 40 mg of minocycline equivalent to 43 mg of minocycline hydrochloride and is supplied as a yellow suspension in a pressurized aluminum aerosol container ( can ) .
Foam , 4 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or any other ingredients within AMZEEQ .
This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or any of the ingredients within AMZEEQ .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • The propellant in AMZEEQ is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 1 ) • • The use of tetracycline - class of drugs orally during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) and reversible inhibition of bone growth .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • If Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea occurs , discontinue AMZEEQ .
( 5 . 5 ) • • If liver injury is suspected , discontinue AMZEEQ .
( 5 . 6 ) • • If renal impairment exists , oral minocycline doses may need to be adjusted to avoid excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Oral minocycline may cause central nervous system side effects including lightheadedness , dizziness , or vertigo .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Oral minocycline may cause intracranial hypertension in adults and adolescents .
Discontinue AMZEEQ if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Oral minocycline has been associated with autoimmune syndromes ; discontinue AMZEEQ immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) • • Photosensitivity can occur with oral tetracycline .
Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight .
( 5 . 11 ) • • Oral minocycline has been associated with anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions , erythema multiforme , and DRESS syndrome .
Discontinue AMZEEQ immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 12 ) 5 . 1 Flammability The propellant in AMZEEQ is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
5 . 2 Teratogenic Effects Minocycline , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may inhibit bone growth when administered orally during pregnancy .
Based on animal data , when administered orally , tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause skeletal malformation and retardation of skeletal development on the developing fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 ) ] .
5 . 3 Tooth Discoloration The use of tetracycline class drugs orally during tooth development ( second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term oral use of the tetracycline but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported with oral tetracycline drugs .
Use of tetracycline drugs is not recommended during tooth development .
The safety and effectiveness of AMZEEQ have not been established in pediatric patients less than 9 years of age .
5 . 4 Inhibition of Bone Growth All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every 6 hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
The safety and effectiveness of AMZEEQ have not been established in patients less than 9 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) ] .
Results of animal studies indicate that oral tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause retardation of skeletal development on the developing fetus .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated orally early in pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including oral minocycline , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 6 Hepatotoxicity Post - marketing cases of serious liver injury , including irreversible drug - induced hepatitis and fulminant hepatic failure ( sometimes fatal ) have been reported with oral minocycline use in the treatment of acne .
5 . 7 Metabolic Effects The anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) .
In patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline - class drugs may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
If renal impairment exists , recommended oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , adjust the dose downward , and if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
5 . 8 Central Nervous System Effects Central nervous system side effects including light - headedness , dizziness or vertigo have been reported with oral minocycline therapy .
Patients who experience these symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy .
These symptoms may disappear during therapy and may disappear when the drug is discontinued .
5 . 9 Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension has been associated with the use of tetracycline - class drugs .
Clinical manifestations of intracranial hypertension include headache , blurred vision , diplopia and vision loss ; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy .
Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at a greater risk for developing intracranial hypertension .
Patients should be questioned for visual disturbances prior to initiation of treatment with tetracyclines .
Concomitant use of isotretinoin and tetracycline should be avoided because isotretinoin , a systemic retinoid , is also known to cause intracranial hypertension .
Although intracranial hypertension typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment , the possibility for permanent visual loss exists .
If visual disturbance occurs during treatment , prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted .
Because intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation , patients should be monitored until they stabilize .
5 . 10 Autoimmune Syndromes Tetracyclines have been associated with the development of autoimmune syndromes .
The long - term use of oral minocycline in the treatment of acne has been associated with drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis and vasculitis .
Sporadic cases of serum sickness have presented shortly after oral minocycline use .
Symptoms may be manifested by fever , rash , arthralgia , and malaise .
In symptomatic patients , immediately discontinue the use of all tetracycline - class drugs , including AMZEEQ .
5 . 11 Photosensitivity Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking oral tetracyclines ; this reaction has been reported less frequently with minocycline .
Although AMZEEQ did not induce phototoxicity or photoallergic responses in human dermal safety studies , patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using minocycline .
If patients need to be outdoors while using AMZEEQ , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
Advise patients to discontinue treatment with AMZEEQ at the first evidence of sunburn .
5 . 12 Serious Skin / Hypersensitivity Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions ( e . g . Stevens Johnson syndrome ) , erythema multiforme , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) syndrome have been reported postmarketing with oral minocycline use in patients with acne .
DRESS syndrome consists of cutaneous reaction ( such as rash or exfoliative dermatitis ) , eosinophilia , and one or more of the following visceral complications such as : hepatitis , pneumonitis , nephritis , myocarditis , and pericarditis .
Fever and lymphadenopathy may be present .
In some cases , death has been reported with oral minocycline use .
If this syndrome is recognized , discontinue AMZEEQ immediately .
5 . 13 Tissue Hyperpigmentation Oral tetracyclines are known to cause hyperpigmentation .
Tetracycline therapy may induce hyperpigmentation in many organs , including nails , bone , skin , eyes , thyroid , visceral tissue , oral cavity ( teeth , mucosa , alveolar bone ) , sclerae and heart valves .
Skin and oral pigmentation has been reported to occur independently of time or amount of drug administration , whereas other tissue pigmentation has been reported to occur upon prolonged administration .
Skin pigmentation includes diffuse pigmentation as well as pigmentation over sites of scars or injury .
5 . 14 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria AMZEEQ has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
Bacterial resistance to the tetracyclines may develop in patients using AMZEEQ , therefore , the susceptibility of bacteria associated with infection should be considered in selecting antimicrobial therapy .
Because of the potential for drug - resistant bacteria to develop during the use of AMZEEQ , it should be used only as indicated .
5 . 15 Superinfection / Potential for Microbial Overgrowth Use of AMZEEQ may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , discontinue AMZEEQ and institute appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly observed adverse reaction is headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - 375 - 3673 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In 3 randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials , subjects age 9 years and older applied AMZEEQ or vehicle once daily for 12 weeks .
A total of 1 , 356 subjects were treated with AMZEEQ and 1 , 058 with vehicle .
The majority of subjects were White ( 74 % ) and female ( 60 % ) .
Approximately 34 % were Hispanic / Latino and 49 % were younger than 18 years of age .
The most common adverse reaction reported by ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with AMZEEQ and more frequently than in subjects treated with vehicle was headache , which was reported in 3 % of subjects treated with AMZEEQ and 2 % of subjects treated with vehicle .
Local tolerability evaluations were conducted at each study visit in the clinical trial by assessment of erythema , dryness , hyperpigmentation , skin peeling and itching .
Table 1 presents the active assessment of the signs and symptoms of local facial tolerability at Week 12 in subjects treated with AMZEEQ .
Local tolerability signs and symptoms occurred in similar frequency and severity as subjects treated with the vehicle component of AMZEEQ .
Table 1 : Facial Cutaneous Tolerability Assessment AMZEEQ , % ( N = 1 , 377 ) Symptom / Severity Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 14 . 2 1 . 5 0 Dryness 6 . 8 0 . 6 0 Hyperpigmentation [ 1 ] 12 . 4 2 . 8 0 . 1 Skin Peeling 3 . 2 0 . 2 0 Itching 5 . 1 0 . 8 0 . 1 [ 1 ] Hyperpigmentation was most frequently assessed as characteristic of inflammatory and post - inflammatory changes associated with acne .
In a 40 - week open - label extension safety study ( for a total of up to 52 weeks of treatment ) , frequency and severity of local tolerability signs and symptoms at Week 52 were comparable to those reported at Week 12 .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Penicillin : avoid coadministration .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Anticoagulants Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
7 . 2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
7 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Minocycline like other tetracycline - class drugs can cause fetal harm when administered orally to a pregnant woman .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 ) • • The use of drugs of the tetracycline class orally during tooth development may cause permanent discoloration of teeth .
( 5 . 3 , 8 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) • • Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with AMZEEQ use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Systemic absorption of AMZEEQ in humans is low following once daily topical administration of AMZEEQ for 21 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because of low systemic exposure , it is not expected that maternal use of AMZEEQ will result in significant fetal exposure to the drug .
Tetracycline - class drugs may cause permanent discoloration of teeth and reversible inhibition of bone growth when administered orally during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Animal reproduction studies were not conducted with AMZEEQ .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of minocycline administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis induced skeletal malformations in fetuses at systemic exposures of 750 and 500 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ; based on AUC comparison ) of AMZEEQ ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause retardation of skeletal development of the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Minocycline induced skeletal malformations ( bent limb bones ) in fetuses when orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of 30 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day , respectively , ( 750 and 500 times , respectively , the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Reduced mean fetal body weight was observed when minocycline was orally administered to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at a dose of 10 mg / kg / day ( 250 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Minocycline was assessed for effects on peri - and post - natal development of rats in a study that involved oral administration to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis through lactation , at doses of 5 , 10 , or 50 mg / kg / day .
In this study , body weight gain was significantly reduced in pregnant females that received 50 mg / kg / day ( 650 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
No effects of treatment on the duration of the gestation period or the number of live pups born per litter were observed .
Gross external anomalies observed in F1 pups ( offspring of animals that received oral minocycline ) included reduced body size , improperly rotated forelimbs , and reduced size of extremities .
No effects were observed on the physical development , behavior , learning ability , or reproduction of F1 pups , and there was no effect on gross appearance of F2 pups ( offspring of F1 animals ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Tetracycline - class drugs , including minocycline , are present in breast milk following oral administration .
It is not known whether minocycline is present in human milk after topical administration to the nursing mother .
There are no data on the effects of minocycline on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with AMZEEQ [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of AMZEEQ have been established in pediatric patients 9 years of age and older for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of non - nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris .
Use of AMZEEQ for this indication is supported by three adequate and well controlled 12 - week trials in patients 9 years of age and older ; two of the trials included a 40 - week open - label extension .
Additional data was obtained from a 7 - day open - label safety and pharmacokinetics study conducted in 20 patients 10 years to less than 17 years of age with acne vulgaris [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
A total of 686 subjects 9 years of age and older received AMZEEQ in these clinical trials .
Safety and effectiveness for this indication have not been established in pediatric patients less than 9 years of age .
The use of oral tetracycline drugs during tooth development below the age of 8 years may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) and inhibition of bone growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of AMZEEQ did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Minocycline hydrochloride , a semi - synthetic derivative of tetracycline , is [ 4 S ‑ ( 4α , 4aα , 5aα , 12aα ) ] - 4 , 7 - Bis ( dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 10 , 12 , 12 a ‑ tetrahydroxy - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecarboxamide mono hydrochloride .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C23H27N3O7 • HCl M . W . 493 . 94 Each gram of AMZEEQ contains micronized minocycline 40 mg equivalent to 43 mg minocycline hydrochloride in a yellow suspension foam .
In addition , the 4 % AMZEEQ topical foam contains the following inactive ingredients : soybean oil , coconut oil , light mineral oil , cyclomethicone , cetostearyl alcohol , stearic acid , myristyl alcohol , hydrogenated castor oil , white wax ( beeswax ) , stearyl alcohol , docosanol .
AMZEEQ topical foam is dispensed from an aluminum container ( can ) pressurized with propellant ( butane + isobutane + propane ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of AMZEEQ for the treatment of acne is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of AMZEEQ for the treatment of acne are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a pharmacokinetic study , male and female subjects 18 years of age or older with acne vulgaris ( N = 30 ) applied approximately 4 grams of AMZEEQ topically to the face , neck , upper chest , upper back , shoulder and upper arms once daily for 21 days .
The mean ± SD Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h were 1 . 3 ± 0 . 6 ng / mL and 23 . 0 ± 10 . 8 ng · h / mL , respectively at Day 21 for AMZEEQ .
After daily application of AMZEEQ in subjects with acne for 21 days , steady - state was reached by Day 6 and systemic accumulation of minocycline was not evident .
Specific Populations Age : Pediatric Population Pharmacokinetics of minocycline was evaluated in 20 subjects 10 years to less than 17 years of age with acne vulgaris following application of approximately 4 grams of AMZEEQ topically to the face , neck , upper chest , upper back , shoulder and upper arms once daily for 7 days .
Minocycline was detected in all samples obtained on Day 7 .
Pharmacokinetic results are presented by age group in Table 2 .
The overall pediatric population showed 2 . 4 - fold and 2 . 7 - fold higher Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h compared to the adult population .
Table 2 : Clinical Pharmacokinetics of Minocycline when treated with AMZEEQ ( ~ 4 g ) in Pediatric Subjects Aged 10 to < 17 years with Acne VulgarisAge Group ( years ) Mean ± SD Cmax ( ng / mL ) Mean ± SD AUC0 - 24 h ( ng · h / mL ) 10 - 11 4 . 5 ± 4 . 0 90 . 9 ± 90 . 2 12 - 14 2 . 8 ± 2 . 2 54 . 0 ± 46 . 2 15 - < 17 2 . 0 ± 1 . 2 40 . 8 ± 23 . 8 10 - < 17 3 . 1 ± 2 . 7 61 . 1 ± 59 . 2 12 . 4 Microbiology Resistance Propionibacterium acnes strains displayed a low propensity for the development of resistance to minocycline , with spontaneous mutation frequencies being < 10 − 8 at 2 to 16 × MIC .
Antimicrobial Activity Minocycline is active in vitro against most isolates of Propionibacterium acnes ; however , the clinical significance is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a carcinogenicity study in which minocycline hydrochloride was orally administered to male and female rats once daily for up to 104 weeks at dosages up to 200 mg / kg / day , minocycline hydrochloride was associated in both sexes with follicular cell tumors of the thyroid gland , including increased incidences of adenomas , carcinomas and the combined incidence of adenomas and carcinomas in males , and adenomas and the combined incidence of adenomas and carcinomas in females .
In a carcinogenicity study in which minocycline hydrochloride was orally administered to male and female mice once daily for up to 104 weeks at dosages up to 150 mg / kg / day , exposure to minocycline hydrochloride did not result in a significantly increased incidence of neoplasms in either males or females .
Minocycline was not mutagenic in vitro in a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) or CHO / HGPRT mammalian cell assay in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Minocycline was not clastogenic in vitro using human peripheral blood lymphocytes or in vivo in a mouse micronucleus test .
Male and female reproductive performance in rats was unaffected by oral doses of minocycline of up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 10 , 000 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
However , oral administration of 100 or 300 mg / kg / day of minocycline to male rats ( 3 , 800 or 10 , 000 times , respectively , the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) , adversely affected spermatogenesis .
Effects observed at 300 mg / kg / day of oral minocycline included a reduced number of sperm cells per gram of epididymis , an apparent reduction in the percentage of sperm that were motile , and ( at 100 and 300 mg / kg / day ) increased numbers of morphologically abnormal sperm cells .
Morphological abnormalities observed in sperm samples included absent heads , misshapen heads , and abnormal flagella .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of AMZEEQ was assessed in three 12 - week , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled studies ( Study 1 [ NCT02815267 ] , Study 2 [ NCT02815280 ] , and Study 3 [ NCT03271021 ] ) in subjects with moderate to severe acne vulgaris .
Efficacy was assessed in a total of 2 , 418 subjects 9 years of age and older .
AMZEEQ or its vehicle were applied once daily for 12 weeks ; no other topical or systemic medication affecting the course of acne vulgaris was permitted for use during these studies .
Subjects were required to have an inflammatory and non - inflammatory lesion count in the range 20 - 50 lesions and 25 - 100 lesions respectively , and an Investigator Global Assessment ( IGA ) score of 3 ( “ moderate ” ) or 4 ( “ severe ” ) at baseline .
Overall , 74 % were Caucasian and 61 % were female .
Forty - two ( 2 % ) subjects were 9 to 11 years of age , 1 , 139 ( 47 % ) subjects were 12 to 17 years of age , and 1 , 237 ( 51 % ) subjects were 18 years or older .
At baseline , subjects had a mean inflammatory lesion count of 31 . 2 and a mean non - inflammatory lesion count of 49 . 3 .
Additionally , approximately 85 % of subjects had an IGA score of 3 ( “ moderate ” ) .
The co - primary efficacy endpoints were the absolute change from baseline in inflammatory lesion counts at Week 12 and the proportion of subjects with treatment success at Week 12 , defined as an IGA score of 0 ( “ clear ” ) or 1 ( “ almost clear ” ) , and at least a two - grade improvement ( decrease ) from baseline at Week 12 .
The efficacy results are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Clinical Efficacy of AMZEEQ in Subjects with Acne Vulgaris at Week 12 a Treatment success is defined as an IGA score of 0 ( “ clear ” ) or 1 ( “ almost clear ” ) , and at least a two - grade improvement ( decrease ) from baseline .
b Means presented in table are Least Square ( LS ) means .
Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 AMZEEQ ( N = 307 ) Vehicle ( N = 159 ) AMZEEQ ( N = 312 ) Vehicle ( N = 152 ) AMZEEQ ( N = 738 ) Vehicle ( N = 750 ) IGA Treatment Successa 8 . 1 % 4 . 8 % 15 . 8 % 8 . 4 % 30 . 8 % 19 . 6 % Difference from Vehicle ( 95 % CI ) 3 . 3 % ( - 1 . 5 % , 8 . 2 % ) 7 . 4 % ( 0 % , 13 . 7 % ) 11 . 2 % ( 6 . 6 % , 15 . 8 % ) Inflammatory Lesion Count Meanb Absolute Change from Baseline - 14 . 0 - 11 . 2 - 13 . 7 - 10 . 5 - 16 . 4 - 12 . 7 Difference from Vehicle ( 95 % CI ) - 2 . 8 ( - 4 . 9 , - 0 . 7 ) - 3 . 2 ( - 5 . 6 , - 0 . 9 ) - 3 . 7 ( - 4 . 8 , - 2 . 5 ) Meanb Percent Change from Baseline - 44 % - 34 % - 43 % - 34 % - 54 % - 42 % Difference from Vehicle ( 95 % CI ) - 10 % ( - 17 % , - 3 % ) - 10 % ( - 17 % , - 2 % ) - 12 % ( - 16 % , - 8 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied AMZEEQ ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % is a yellow suspension supplied in a pressurized aluminum aerosol container ( can ) .
Each gram of AMZEEQ contains 40 mg of minocycline equivalent to 43 mg of minocycline hydrochloride , and is supplied as follows : NDC 72356 - 101 - 03 30 g Can Storage AMZEEQ must be stored at 2ºC - 8ºC ( 36ºF - 46ºF ) until dispensed to the patient .
Once dispensed , the patient is to store AMZEEQ at room temperature below 25ºC ( 77ºF ) for 90 days .
Do not store in the refrigerator .
Handling Allow the can to warm to room temperature before first use .
Shake can well before use .
WARNING : Flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or temperatures above 49 oC ( 120 oF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Inform patients using AMZEEQ ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % of the following information and instructions : Flammability The propellant in AMZEEQ is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Tooth Discoloration Advise caregivers of pediatric patients that AMZEEQ may cause permanent discoloration of deciduous and permanent teeth during tooth development ( generally up to the age of 8 years ) based on observations with oral tetracycline .
Lactation Advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during AMZEEQ therapy .
Tissue Hyperpigmentation Inform patients that AMZEEQ may cause discoloration of skin , scars , teeth or gums based on observations with oral minocycline .
Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea Advise patients that Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea can occur with oral minocycline therapy .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop watery or bloody stools while using AMZEEQ .
Hepatotoxicity Inform patients about the possibility of hepatotoxicity reported with oral minocycline .
Advise patients to seek medical advice if they experience symptoms or signs of hepatotoxicity , including loss of appetite , tiredness , diarrhea , jaundice , increased bleeding tendencies , confusion , and sleepiness .
Central Nervous System Effects Inform patients that central nervous system adverse reactions including dizziness or vertigo have been reported with oral minocycline therapy .
Caution patients about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery if they experience such symptoms while on AMZEEQ .
Intracranial Hypertension Inform patients that intracranial hypertension can occur with minocycline therapy .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop unusual headache , visual symptoms , such as blurred vision , diplopia , and vision loss .
Photosensitivity Inform patients that photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking oral tetracyclines , including minocycline .
Advise patients to minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial UV light ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using AMZEEQ .
Discuss other sun protection measures , if patients need to be outdoors while using AMZEEQ .
Advise patients to discontinue treatment at the first evidence of sunburn .
Autoimmune Syndromes Inform patients that autoimmune syndromes , including drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis , vasculitis and serum sickness have been observed with oral tetracycline - class drugs , including minocycline .
Symptoms may be manifested by arthralgia , fever , rash and malaise .
Advise patients who experience such symptoms to stop the drug immediately and seek medical help .
Other Information AMZEEQ should be applied exactly as directed .
AMZEEQ may stain fabric .
Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 101G0004 AMZEEQ is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
PATIENT INFORMATION AMZEEQ ® ( am - Zeek ) ( minocycline ) topical foam Important Information : AMZEEQ is for use on skin only ( topical use ) .
AMZEEQ is not for use in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
What is AMZEEQ ?
AMZEEQ is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) for the treatment of pimples and red bumps ( non - nodular inflammatory lesions ) that happen with moderate to severe acne vulgaris in adults and children 9 years of age and older .
AMZEEQ should not be used for the treatment of infections .
It is not known if AMZEEQ is safe and effective in children under 9 years of age .
Do not use AMZEEQ if you are allergic to any tetracycline medicines or to any of the ingredients in AMZEEQ .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using AMZEEQ ?
Before using AMZEEQ , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have diarrhea or watery stools • have liver problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Taking tetracycline medicines by mouth during pregnancy may cause serious side effects on the growth of bone and teeth of your baby .
AMZEEQ topical foam is used on your skin and it is not known if it will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with AMZEEQ . Tell your healthcare provider about all the other medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Tetracycline medicines taken by mouth may affect the way other medicines work , and may increase your risk of certain side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • a blood thinner medicine .
• a penicillin antibiotic medicine • isotretinoinAsk your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
How should I use AMZEEQ ?
• See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” included with this leaflet for directions about how to apply AMZEEQ the right way .
• Use AMZEEQ exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Apply AMZEEQ to the affected skin area ( s ) at about the same time each day , at least 1 hour before bedtime .
• Do not bathe , shower , or swim for at least 1 hour after applying AMZEEQ .
• Wash your hands after applying AMZEEQ .
What should I avoid while using AMZEEQ ?
• AMZEEQ is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , and smoking when applying and right after you apply AMZEEQ .
• Limit your time in sunlight .
Avoid sunlight or artificial sunlight such as sunlamps or tanning beds .
Use sun protection measures such as sunscreen and wear loose - fitting clothes that cover your skin while out in sunlight .
Stop using AMZEEQ if you get sunburn .
• Minocycline taken by mouth may cause feelings of light - headedness , dizziness , or spinning ( vertigo ) .
You should not drive or operate dangerous machinery if you have these symptoms during treatment with AMZEEQ .
What are possible side effects of AMZEEQ ?
AMZEEQ contains minocycline , a tetracycline medicine .
Tetracyclines , when taken by mouth , may cause serious side effects , including : • Harm to an unborn baby .
See “ What should I tell my healthcare provider before using AMZEEQ ? ”
• Permanent tooth discoloration .
Tetracycline medicine when taken by mouth may permanently turn a baby or child ' s teeth yellow - gray - brown during tooth development .
You should not use AMZEEQ during tooth development .
Tooth development happens in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , and from birth up to 8 years of age .
• Slow bone growth .
Tetracycline medicine taken by mouth may slow bone growth in infants and children .
Slow bone growth is reversible after stopping treatment .
• Diarrhea .
Diarrhea can happen with most antibiotics , including minocycline taken by mouth .
This diarrhea may be caused by an infection ( Clostridioides difficile ) in your intestines .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get watery or bloody stools while using AMZEEQ .
• Liver problems .
Minocycline taken by mouth to treat acne can cause serious liver problems that may lead to death .
Stop using AMZEEQ and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms of liver problems : oloss of appetiteotirednessodiarrheaoyellowing of your skin or the white of your eyes ( jaundice ) obleeding more easily than normaloconfusionosleepiness • Central nervous system effects .
See “ What should I avoid while using AMZEEQ ? ”
• Increased pressure in the brain ( intracranial hypertension ) .
This condition may lead to vision changes and permanent vision loss .
You are more likely to get intracranial hypertension if you are a female of childbearing potential and are overweight or have a history of intracranial hypertension .
Stop using AMZEEQ and tell your healthcare provider right away if you have blurred vision , double vision , vision loss , or unusual headaches .
• Immune system reactions including a lupus - like syndrome , hepatitis , and inflammation of blood or lymph vessels ( vasculitis ) have happened during treatment with minocycline taken by mouth .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get a fever , rash , joint pain , or body weakness .
• Sensitivity to sunlight ( photosensitivity ) .
See “ What should I avoid while using AMZEEQ ? ”
• Serious skin or allergic reactions have happened during treatment with minocycline taken by mouth that may affect parts of your body such as your liver , lungs , kidneys and heart .
Sometimes these can lead to death .
Stop using AMZEEQ and go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms : oskin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or your skin blisters and peelsoswelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue , or throatotrouble swallowing or breathingoblood in your urineofever , yellowing of the skin or the whites of your eyes ( jaundice ) , dark colored urineopain on the right side of the stomach area ( abdominal pain ) ochest pain or abnormal heartbeatsoswelling in your legs , ankles , and feet • Discoloration ( hyperpigmentation ) .
Minocycline taken by mouth may cause darkening of your skin , scars , teeth , or gums . The most common side effect of AMZEEQ is headache .
Your healthcare provider may stop your treatment with AMZEEQ if you develop certain side effects .
These are not all the possible side effects with AMZEEQ .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store AMZEEQ ?
• Store AMZEEQ at room temperature below 77ºF ( 25ºC ) for 90 days .
• Do not store AMZEEQ in the refrigerator .
• Do not puncture or burn the AMZEEQ can .
• Do not expose to heat or temperatures above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) Keep AMZEEQ and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of AMZEEQ .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use AMZEEQ for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AMZEEQ to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about AMZEEQ that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in AMZEEQ ?
Active ingredient : minocycline Inactive ingredients : soybean oil , coconut oil , light mineral oil , cyclomethicone , cetostearyl alcohol , stearic acid , myristyl alcohol , hydrogenated castor oil , white wax ( beeswax ) , stearyl alcohol , docosanol and propellant ( butane + isobutane + propane ) .
Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 101G1002 AMZEEQ is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . AMZEEQ . com or call VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - 375 - 3673 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 01 / 2021 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE AMZEEQ ® ( am - Zeek ) ( minocycline ) topical foam Important Information : AMZEEQ is for use on skin only ( topical use ) .
AMZEEQ is not for use in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
Read this Instructions for Use before you start using AMZEEQ and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Use AMZEEQ exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Before applying AMZEEQ : • Allow the AMZEEQ can to warm to room temperature before first use .
• Wash your face gently with mild cleanser , rinse with water , and pat your skin dry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Shake the can well .
Place thumb under tab above nozzle and lift up to remove the cap from the AMZEEQ foam can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Press the top of the can to dispense a small amount of AMZEEQ foam onto your fingertips .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Apply and gently rub AMZEEQ foam into the affected areas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : If acne is present on other parts of your body ( neck , shoulders , arms , back or chest ) , additional amounts of AMZEEQ foam should also be applied to these affected areas as directed by your healthcare provider .
• Wash your hands after applying AMZEEQ .
• AMZEEQ can stain fabric .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 01 / 2021 Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 101G2002 AMZEEQ is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL AMZEEQ Trade Labels for Country - of - Origin Portugal NDC 72356 - 101 - 03 Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 101 - 03 Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMZEEQ Physician Sample Labels for Country - of - Origin Portugal [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 101 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only NDC 72356 - 101 - 90 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Physician Sample Not for Sale Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only AMZEEQ Trade Labels for Country - of - Origin Switzerland NDC 72356 - 101 - 03 Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 101 - 03 Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only AMZEEQ Physician Sample Labels for Country - of - Origin Switzerland [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 101 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 101 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale Amzeeq ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 4 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMZEEQ 3 gram Physician Sample Labels AMZEEQ 3 gram Physician Sample ( NDC 72356 - 101 - 92 ) - LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMZEEQ 3 gram Physician Sample ( NDC 72356 - 101 - 92 ) - CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
