Revised 03 / 04 Rx Only DESCRIPTION Dicyclomine hydrochloride is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agent available in the following form : Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 20 mg of dicyclomine hydrochloride .
They also contain the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous Lactose , FDandC Blue No . 1 Lake , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate , and Microcrystalline Cellulose .
Chemically , dicyclomine hydrochloride is [ bicyclohexyl ] - 1 - carboxylic acid , 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethylester , hydrochloride with the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] DICYCLOMINE 20 MG STRUCTURE IMAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride occurs as a fine , white , crystalline , practically odorless powder with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol and chloroform , and very slightly soluble in ether [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dicyclomine relieves smooth muscle spasm of the gastrointestinal tract .
Animal studies indicate that this action is achieved via a dual mechanism : ( 1 ) a specific anticholinergic effect ( antimuscarinic ) at the acetylcholine - receptor sites with approximately 1 / 8 the milligram potency of atropine ( in vitro , guinea pig ileum ) ; and ( 2 ) a direct effect upon smooth muscle ( musculotropic ) as evidenced by dicyclomine ' s antagonism of bradykinin - and histamine - induced spasms of the isolated guinea pig ileum .
Atropine did not affect responses to these two agonists .
In vivo studies in cats and dogs showed dicyclomine to be equally potent against acetylcholine ( ACh ) - or barium chloride ( BaCl2 ) - induced intestinal spasm while atropine was at least 200 times more potent against effects of ACh than BaCl2 .
Tests for mydriatic effects in mice showed that dicyclomine was approximately 1 / 500 as potent as atropine ; antisialagogue tests in rabbits showed dicyclomine to be 1 / 300 as potent as atropine .
In man , dicyclomine is rapidly absorbed after oral administration , reaching peak values within 60 - 90 minutes .
The principal route of elimination is via the urine ( 79 . 5 % of the dose ) .
Excretion also occurs in the feces , but to a lesser extent ( 8 . 4 % ) .
Mean half - life of plasma elimination in one study was determined to be approximately 1 . 8 hours when plasma concentrations were measured for 9 hours after a single dose .
In subsequent studies , plasma concentrations were followed for up to 24 hours after a single dose , showing a secondary phase of elimination with a somewhat longer half - life .
Mean volume of distribution for a 20 mg oral dose is approximately 3 . 65 L / kg suggesting extensive distribution in tissues .
In controlled clinical trials involving over 100 patients who received drug , 82 % of patients treated for functional bowel / irritable bowel syndrome with dicyclomine hydrochloride at initial doses of 160 mg daily ( 40 mg q . i . d . ) demonstrated a favorable clinical response compared with 55 % treated with placebo .
( P less than . 05 ) .
In these trials , most of the side effects were typically anticholinergic in nature ( see table ) and were reported by 61 % of the patients .
Dicyclomine Hydrochloride Side ( 40 mg q . i . d . ) Placebo Effect % % Dry Mouth 33 5 Dizziness 29 2 Blurred Vision 27 2 Nausea 14 6 Light - Headedness 11 3 Drowsiness 9 1 Weakness 7 1 Nervousness 6 2 Nine percent ( 9 % ) of patients were discontinued from the drug because of one or more of these side effects ( compared with 2 % in the placebo group ) .
In 41 % of the patients with side effects , side effects disappeared or were tolerated at the 160 mg daily dose without reduction .
A dose reduction from 160 mg daily to an average daily dose of 90 mg was required in 46 % of the patients with side effects who then continued to experience a favorable clinical response ; their side effects either disappeared or were tolerated .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of functional bowel / irritable bowel syndrome .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 .
Obstructive uropathy 2 .
Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract 3 .
Severe ulcerative colitis ( See PRECAUTIONS ) 4 .
Reflux esophagitis 5 .
Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage 6 .
Glaucoma 7 .
Myasthenia gravis 8 .
Evidence of prior hypersensitivity to dicyclomine hydrochloride or other ingredients of these formulations 9 .
Infants less than 6 months of age ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients . )
10 .
Nursing Mothers ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients . )
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
If symptoms occur , the drug should be discontinued and supportive measures instituted .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Dicyclomine hydrochloride may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , short - term memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , coma , euphoria , decreased anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms , and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 24 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
DICYCLOMINE IS CONTRAINDICATED IN INFANTS LESS THAN 6 MONTHS OF AGE AND IN NURSING MOTHERS .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Nursing Mothers and Pediatric Use ) .
Safety and efficacy of dicyclomine hydrochloride in children have not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED Dicyclomine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 20 mg are supplied as blue , round , unscored tablets ; embossed “ WW 27 ” and are available in : Bottles of 100 tablets .
Bottles of 1000 tablets .
Unit Dose Boxes of 100 tablets .
To prevent fading , avoid exposure to direct sunlight .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised March 200 [ MULTIMEDIA ] DICYCLOMINE 20 MG LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
