[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • tiredness • breast pain • nausea • headache • vomiting • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • dizziness Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose Other information • • read the instructions , warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use • • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• • do not use if package is open or blister seal is broken or missing • • store levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Inactive ingredients cellulose microcrystalline , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer 188 Questions ?
Call 1 - 844 - 947 - 6633 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Levonorgestrel Tablets 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Step .
What You Need to Know What is levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is not .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • • you did not use any birth control method When not to use levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg should not be used : • • as a regular birth control method , because it ’ s not as effective as regular birth control .
• • if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• • if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel tablet and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg work ?
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg , the better it works .
How effective is levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
If levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg worked ?
You will know levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• • some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• • if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• • when used as directed , levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• • if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number , 1 - 844 - 947 - 6633 , or visit our website at www . xiromed . com .
Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : cellulose microcrystalline , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer 188 1 - 844 - 947 - 6633 www . xiromed . com If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
XIROMED , LLC .
Levonorgestrel tablets 1 . 5 mg Manufactured by : Laboratorios León Farma S . A . C / La Vallina s / n Poligono Industrial de Navatejera 24008 Villaquilambre , León , Spain Manufactured for : Xiromed , LLC .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 Revised : December 2019 Priciple Display Panel - Blister [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principle Display Panel - Carton Levonorgestrel Tablets ( levonorgestrel ) tablets 1 . 5 mg Emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
Xiromed LLC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
