CENTRAL PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY ( FOR ENDOMETRIOSIS , SEE REVERSE SIDE ) PHYSICIAN LABELING DESCRIPTION SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate ) Nasal Solution is intended for administration as a spray to the nasal mucosa .
Nafarelin acetate , the active component of SYNAREL Nasal Solution , is a decapeptide with the chemical name : 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - 3 - ( 2 - naphthyl ) - D - alanyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - L - prolyl - glycinamide acetate .
Nafarelin acetate is a synthetic analog of the naturally occurring gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
Nafarelin acetate has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] SYNAREL Nasal Solution contains nafarelin acetate ( 2 mg / mL , content expressed as nafarelin base ) in a solution of benzalkonium chloride , glacial acetic acid , sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) , sorbitol , and purified water .
After priming the pump unit for SYNAREL , each actuation of the unit delivers approximately 100 µL of the spray containing approximately 200 µg nafarelin base .
The contents of one spray bottle are intended to deliver at least 60 sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nafarelin acetate is a potent agonistic analog of gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
At the onset of administration , nafarelin stimulates the release of the pituitary gonadotropins , LH and FSH , resulting in a temporary increase of gonadal steroidogenesis .
Repeated dosing abolishes the stimulatory effect on the pituitary gland .
Twice daily administration leads to decreased secretion of gonadal steroids by about 4 weeks ; consequently , tissues and functions that depend on gonadal steroids for their maintenance become quiescent .
In children , nafarelin acetate was rapidly absorbed into the systemic circulation after intranasal administration .
Maximum serum concentrations ( measured by RIA ) were achieved between 10 and 45 minutes .
Following a single dose of 400 µg base , the observed peak concentration was 2 . 2 ng / mL , whereas following a single dose of 600 µg base , the observed peak concentration was 6 . 6 ng / mL .
The average serum half - life of nafarelin following intranasal administration of a 400 µg dose was approximately 2 . 5 hours .
It is not known and cannot be predicted what the pharmacokinetics of nafarelin will be in children given a dose above 600 µg .
In adult women , nafarelin acetate was rapidly absorbed into the systemic circulation after intranasal administration .
Maximum serum concentrations ( measured by RIA ) were achieved between 10 and 40 minutes .
Following a single dose of 200 µg base , the observed average peak concentration was 0 . 6 ng / mL ( range 0 . 2 to 1 . 4 ng / mL ) , whereas following a single dose of 400 µg base , the observed average peak concentration was 1 . 8 ng / mL ( range 0 . 5 to 5 . 3 ng / mL ) .
Bioavailability from a 400 µg dose averaged 2 . 8 % ( range 1 . 2 to 5 . 6 % ) .
The average serum half - life of nafarelin following intranasal administration was approximately 3 hours .
About 80 % of nafarelin acetate was bound to plasma proteins at 4 ° C . Twice daily intranasal administration of 200 or 400 µg of SYNAREL in 18 healthy women for 22 days did not lead to significant accumulation of the drug .
Based on the mean Cmin levels on Days 15 and 22 , there appeared to be dose proportionality across the two dose levels .
After subcutaneous administration of 14 C - nafarelin acetate to men , 44 – 55 % of the dose was recovered in urine and 18 . 5 – 44 . 2 % was recovered in feces .
Approximately 3 % of the administered dose appeared as unchanged nafarelin in urine .
The 14 C serum half - life of the metabolites was about 85 . 5 hours .
Six metabolites of nafarelin have been identified of which the major metabolite is Tyr - D ( 2 ) - Nal - Leu - Arg - Pro - Gly - NH2 ( 5 – 10 ) .
The activity of the metabolites , the metabolism of nafarelin by nasal mucosa , and the pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically - and renally - impaired patients have not been determined .
There appeared to be no significant effect of rhinitis , i . e . , nasal congestion , on the systemic bioavailability of SYNAREL ; however , if the use of a nasal decongestant for rhinitis is necessary during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing with SYNAREL .
When used regularly in girls and boys with central precocious puberty ( CPP ) at the recommended dose , SYNAREL suppresses LH and sex steroid hormone levels to prepubertal levels , affects a corresponding arrest of secondary sexual development , and slows linear growth and skeletal maturation .
In some cases , initial estrogen withdrawal bleeding may occur , generally within 6 weeks after initiation of therapy .
Thereafter , menstruation should cease .
In clinical studies the peak response of LH to GnRH stimulation was reduced from a pubertal response to a prepubertal response ( < 15 mlU / mL ) within one month of treatment .
Linear growth velocity , which is commonly pubertal in children with CPP , is reduced in most children within the first year of treatment to values of 5 to 6 cm / year or less .
Children with CPP are frequently taller than their chronological age peers ; height for chronological age approaches normal in most children during the second or third year of treatment with SYNAREL .
Skeletal maturation rate ( bone age velocity — change in bone age divided by change in chronological age ) is usually abnormal ( greater than 1 ) in children with CPP ; in most children , bone age velocity approaches normal ( 1 ) during the first year of treatment .
This results in a narrowing of the gap between bone age and chronological age , usually by the second or third year of treatment .
The mean predicted adult height increases .
In clinical trials , breast development was arrested or regressed in 82 % of girls , and genital development was arrested or regressed in 100 % of boys .
Because pubic hair growth is largely controlled by adrenal androgens , which are unaffected by nafarelin , pubic hair development was arrested or regressed only in 54 % of girls and boys .
Reversal of the suppressive effects of SYNAREL has been demonstrated to occur in all children with CPP for whom one - year post - treatment follow - up is available ( n = 69 ) .
This demonstration consisted of the appearance or return of menses , the return of pubertal gonadotropin and gonadal sex steroid levels , and / or the advancement of secondary sexual development .
Semen analysis was normal in the two ejaculated specimens obtained thus far from boys who have been taken off therapy to resume puberty .
Fertility has not been documented by pregnancies and the effect of long - term use of the drug on fertility is not known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE FOR CENTRAL PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY ( For Endometriosis , See Reverse Side ) SYNAREL is indicated for treatment of central precocious puberty ( CPP ) ( gonadotropin - dependent precocious puberty ) in children of both sexes .
The diagnosis of central precocious puberty ( CPP ) is suspected when premature development of secondary sexual characteristics occurs at or before the age of 8 years in girls and 9 years in boys , and is accompanied by significant advancement of bone age and / or a poor adult height prediction .
The diagnosis should be confirmed by pubertal gonadal sex steroid levels and a pubertal LH response to stimulation by native GnRH .
Pelvic ultrasound assessment in girls usually reveals enlarged uterus and ovaries , the latter often with multiple cystic formations .
Magnetic resonance imaging or CT - scanning of the brain is recommended to detect hypothalamic or pituitary tumors , or anatomical changes associated with increased intracranial pressure .
Other causes of sexual precocity , such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia , testotoxicosis , testicular tumors and / or other autonomous feminizing or masculinizing disorders must be excluded by proper clinical hormonal and diagnostic imaging examinations .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 .
Hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs or any of the excipients in SYNAREL ; 2 .
Undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding ; 3 .
Use in pregnancy or in women who may become pregnant while receiving the drug .
SYNAREL may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Major fetal abnormalities were observed in rats , but not in mice or rabbits after administration of SYNAREL during the period of organogenesis .
There was a dose - related increase in fetal mortality and a decrease in fetal weight in rats [ see Pregnancy ] .
The effects on rat fetal mortality are expected consequences of the alterations in hormonal levels brought about by the drug .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ; 4 .
Use in women who are breast - feeding [ see Nursing Mothers ] .
WARNINGS The diagnosis of central precocious puberty ( CPP ) must be established before treatment is initiated .
Regular monitoring of CPP patients is needed to assess both patient response as well as compliance .
This is particularly important during the first 6 to 8 weeks of treatment to assure that suppression of pituitary - gonadal function is rapid .
Testing may include LH response to GnRH stimulation and circulating gonadal sex steroid levels .
Assessment of growth velocity and bone age velocity should begin within 3 to 6 months of treatment initiation .
Some patients may not show suppression of the pituitary - gonadal axis by clinical and / or biochemical parameters .
This may be due to lack of compliance with the recommended treatment regimen and may be rectified by recommending that the dosing be done by caregivers .
If compliance problems are excluded , the possibility of gonadotropin independent sexual precocity should be reconsidered and appropriate examinations should be conducted .
If compliance problems are excluded and if gonadotropin independent sexual precocity is not present , the dose of SYNAREL may be increased to 1800 µg / day administered as 600 µg tid .
Psychiatric events have been reported in patients taking GnRH agonists .
Postmarketing reports with this class of drugs includes symptoms of emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression .
Monitor for development or worsening of psychiatric symptoms during treatment with SYNAREL .
Post - marketing reports of convulsions have been observed in patients receiving GnRH agonists .
These have included patients with a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions such as bupropion and SSRIs .
Convulsions have also been reported in patients in the absence of any of the conditions mentioned above .
Pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) has been reported in pediatric patients receiving GnRH agonists .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri , including headache , papilledema , blurred vision , diplopia , loss of vision , pain behind the eye or pain with eye movement , tinnitus , dizziness , and nausea .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other drugs that stimulate the release of gonadotropins or that induce ovulation , in adult women with endometriosis ovarian cysts have been reported to occur in the first two months of therapy with SYNAREL .
Many , but not all , of these events occurred in women with polycystic ovarian disease .
These cystic enlargements may resolve spontaneously , generally by about four to six weeks of therapy , but in some cases may require discontinuation of drug and / or surgical intervention .
The relevance , if any , of such events in children is unknown .
Information for Patients , Patients ' Parents or Guardians An information pamphlet for patients is included with the product .
Patients and their caregivers should be aware of the following information : 1 .
Reversibility of the suppressive effects of nafarelin has been demonstrated by the appearance or return of menses , by the return of pubertal gonadotropin and gonadal sex steroid levels , and / or by advancement of secondary sexual development .
Semen analysis was normal in the two ejaculated specimens obtained thus far from boys who have been taken off therapy to resume puberty .
Fertility has not been documented by pregnancies and the effect of long - term use of the drug on fertility is not known .
2 .
Patients and their caregivers should be adequately counseled to assure full compliance ; irregular or incomplete daily doses may result in stimulation of the pituitary - gonadal axis .
3 .
Inform parents and caregivers that reports of convulsions have been observed in patients receiving GnRH agonists .
Patients with a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions may be at increased risk [ see Warnings ] .
4 .
Inform patients and caregivers that reports of pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) have been observed in pediatric patients receiving GnRH agonists .
Advise patients and caregivers to monitor for headache , and vision issues such as blurred vision , double vision , loss of vision , pain behind the eye or pain with eye movement , ringing in the ears , dizziness , and nausea .
Advise patients and caregivers to contact their healthcare provider if the patient develops any of these symptoms [ see Warnings ] .
5 .
During the first month of treatment with SYNAREL , some signs of puberty , e . g . , vaginal bleeding or breast enlargement , may occur .
This is the expected initial effect of the drug .
Such changes should resolve soon after the first month .
lf such resolution does not occur within the first two months of treatment , this may be due to lack of compliance or the presence of gonadotropin independent sexual precocity .
If both possibilities are definitively excluded , the dose of SYNAREL may be increased to 1800 µg / day administered as 600 µg tid .
6 .
Patients with intercurrent rhinitis should consult their physician for the use of a topical nasal decongestant .
If the use of a topical nasal decongestant is required during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing with SYNAREL .
Sneezing during or immediately after dosing with SYNAREL should be avoided , if possible , since this may impair drug absorption .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with SYNAREL .
However , because nafarelin acetate is a peptide that is primarily degraded by peptidase and not by cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , and the drug is only about 80 % bound to plasma proteins at 4 ° C , drug interactions would not be expected to occur .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies of nafarelin were conducted in rats ( 24 months ) at doses up to 100 µg / kg / day and mice ( 18 months ) at doses up to 500 µg / kg / day using intramuscular doses ( up to 110 times and 560 times the maximum recommended human intranasal dose , respectively ) .
These multiples of the human dose are based on the relative bioavailability of the drug by the two routes of administration .
As seen with other GnRH agonists , nafarelin acetate given to laboratory rodents at high doses for prolonged periods induced proliferative responses ( hyperplasia and / or neoplasia ) of endocrine organs .
At 24 months , there was an increase in the incidence of pituitary tumors ( adenoma / carcinoma ) in high - dose female rats and a dose - related increase in male rats .
There was an increase in pancreatic islet cell adenomas in both sexes , and in benign testicular and ovarian tumors in the treated groups .
There was a dose - related increase in benign adrenal medullary tumors in treated female rats .
In mice , there was a dose - related increase in Harderian gland tumors in males and an increase in pituitary adenomas in high - dose females .
No metastases of these tumors were observed .
It is known that tumorigenicity in rodents is particularly sensitive to hormonal stimulation .
Mutagenicity studies were performed with nafarelin acetate using bacterial , yeast , and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of mutagenic potential .
Reproduction studies in male and female rats have shown full reversibility of fertility suppression when drug treatment was discontinued after continuous administration for up to 6 months .
The effect of treatment of prepubertal rats on the subsequent reproductive performance of mature animals has not been investigated .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects See Contraindications .
Intramuscular SYNAREL was administered to rats during the period of organogenesis at 0 . 4 , 1 . 6 , and 6 . 4 µg / kg / day ( about 0 . 5 , 2 , and 7 times the maximum recommended human intranasal dose based on the relative bioavailability by the two routes of administration ) .
An increase in major fetal abnormalities was observed in 4 / 80 fetuses at the highest dose .
A similar , repeat study at the same doses in rats and studies in mice and rabbits at doses up to 600 µg / kg / day and 0 . 18 µg / kg / day , respectively , failed to demonstrate an increase in fetal abnormalities after administration during the period of organogenesis .
In rats and rabbits , there was a dose - related increase in fetal mortality and a decrease in fetal weight with the highest dose .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether SYNAREL is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because the effects of SYNAREL on lactation and / or the breastfed child have not been determined , SYNAREL should not be used by nursing mothers .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials of 155 pediatric patients , 2 . 6 % reported symptoms suggestive of drug sensitivity , such as shortness of breath , chest pain , urticaria , rash , and pruritus .
In these 155 patients treated for an average of 41 months and as long as 80 months ( 6 . 7 years ) , adverse events most frequently reported ( > 3 % of patients ) consisted largely of episodes occurring during the first 6 weeks of treatment as a result of the transient stimulatory action of nafarelin upon the pituitary - gonadal axis : • acne ( 10 % ) • transient breast enlargement ( 8 % ) • vaginal bleeding ( 8 % ) • emotional lability ( 6 % ) [ see Warnings ] • transient increase in pubic hair ( 5 % ) • body odor ( 4 % ) • seborrhea ( 3 % ) Hot flashes , common in adult women treated for endometriosis , occurred in only 3 % of treated children and were transient .
Other adverse events thought to be drug - related , and occurring in > 3 % of patients were rhinitis ( 5 % ) and white or brownish vaginal discharge ( 3 % ) .
Approximately 3 % of patients withdrew from clinical trials due to adverse events .
In one male patient with concomitant congenital adrenal hyperplasia , and who had discontinued treatment 8 months previously to resume puberty , adrenal rest tumors were found in the left testis .
Relationship to SYNAREL is unlikely .
Regular examinations of the pituitary gland by magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) or computer assisted tomography ( CT ) of children during long - term nafarelin therapy as well as during the post - treatment period has occasionally revealed changes in the shape and size of the pituitary gland .
These changes include asymmetry and enlargement of the pituitary gland , and a pituitary microadenoma has been suspected in a few children .
The relationship of these findings to SYNAREL is not known .
Post - Marketing Pituitary apoplexy : During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed , with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
Psychiatric adverse events : Emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression has been observed with GnRH agonists [ see Warnings ] ; Depression , including rare reports of suicidal ideation and attempt , has been reported for GnRH agonists in children treated for central precocious puberty .
Many , but not all , of these patients had a history of psychiatric illness or other comorbidities with an increased risk of depression .
Central / peripheral nervous adverse events : Convulsion , pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) .
OVERDOSAGE In experimental animals , a single subcutaneous administration of up to 60 times the recommended human dose ( on a µg / kg basis , not adjusted for bioavailability ) had no adverse effects .
At present , there is no clinical evidence of adverse effects following overdosage of GnRH analogs .
Based on studies in monkeys , SYNAREL is not absorbed after oral administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of central precocious puberty ( CPP ) , the recommended daily dose of SYNAREL is 1600 µg .
The dose can be increased to 1800 µg daily if adequate suppression cannot be achieved at 1600 µg / day .
The 1600 µg dose is achieved by two sprays ( 400 µg ) into each nostril in the morning ( 4 sprays ) and two sprays into each nostril in the evening ( 4 sprays ) , a total of 8 sprays per day .
The 1800 µg dose is achieved by 3 sprays ( 600 µg ) into alternating nostrils three times a day , a total of 9 sprays per day .
The patient ' s head should be tilted back slightly , and 30 seconds should elapse between sprays .
If the prescribed therapy has been well tolerated by the patient , treatment of CPP with SYNAREL should continue until resumption of puberty is desired .
There appeared to be no significant effect of rhinitis , i . e . , nasal congestion , on the systemic bioavailability of SYNAREL ; however , if the use of a nasal decongestant for rhinitis is necessary during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing with SYNAREL .
Sneezing during or immediately after dosing with SYNAREL should be avoided , if possible , since this may impair drug absorption .
At 1600 µg / day , a bottle of SYNAREL provides about a 7 - day supply ( about 56 sprays ) .
If the daily dose is increased , increase the supply to the patient to ensure uninterrupted treatment for the duration of therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Each 0 . 5 ounce bottle ( NDC 0025 - 0166 - 08 ) contains 8 mL SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate ) Nasal Solution 2 mg / mL ( as nafarelin base ) , and is supplied with a metered spray pump that delivers 200 µg of nafarelin per spray .
A dust cover and a leaflet of patient instructions are also included .
Store upright at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1048 - 4 . 0 Revised : April 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Synarel ® ( nafarelin acetate ) nasal solution ENDOMETRIOSIS ( FOR CENTRAL PRECOCIOUS PUBERTY , SEE REVERSE SIDE ) PHYSICIAN LABELING DESCRIPTION SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate ) Nasal Solution is intended for administration as a spray to the nasal mucosa .
Nafarelin acetate , the active component of SYNAREL Nasal Solution , is a decapeptide with the chemical name : 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - 3 - ( 2 - naphthyl ) - D - alanyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - L - prolyl - glycinamide acetate .
Nafarelin acetate is a synthetic analog of the naturally occurring gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
Nafarelin acetate has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] SYNAREL Nasal Solution contains nafarelin acetate ( 2 mg / mL , content expressed as nafarelin base ) in a solution of benzalkonium chloride , glacial acetic acid , sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) , sorbitol , and purified water .
After priming the pump unit for SYNAREL , each actuation of the unit delivers approximately 100 µL of the spray containing approximately 200 µg nafarelin base .
The contents of one spray bottle are intended to deliver at least 60 sprays .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nafarelin acetate is a potent agonistic analog of gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
At the onset of administration , nafarelin stimulates the release of the pituitary gonadotropins , LH and FSH , resulting in a temporary increase of ovarian steroidogenesis .
Repeated dosing abolishes the stimulatory effect on the pituitary gland .
Twice daily administration leads to decreased secretion of gonadal steroids by about 4 weeks ; consequently , tissues and functions that depend on gonadal steroids for their maintenance become quiescent .
Nafarelin acetate is rapidly absorbed into the systemic circulation after intranasal administration .
Maximum serum concentrations ( measured by RIA ) were achieved between 10 and 40 minutes .
Following a single dose of 200 µg base , the observed average peak concentration was 0 . 6 ng / mL ( range 0 . 2 to 1 . 4 ng / mL ) , whereas following a single dose of 400 µg base , the observed average peak concentration was 1 . 8 ng / mL ( range 0 . 5 to 5 . 3 ng / mL ) .
Bioavailability from a 400 µg dose averaged 2 . 8 % ( range 1 . 2 to 5 . 6 % ) .
The average serum half - life of nafarelin following intranasal administration is approximately 3 hours .
About 80 % of nafarelin acetate is bound to plasma proteins at 4 ° C . Twice daily intranasal administration of 200 or 400 µg of SYNAREL in 18 healthy women for 22 days did not lead to significant accumulation of the drug .
Based on the mean Cmin levels on Days 15 and 22 , there appeared to be dose proportionality across the two dose levels .
After subcutaneous administration of 14 C - nafarelin acetate to men , 44 – 55 % of the dose was recovered in urine and 18 . 5 – 44 . 2 % was recovered in feces .
Approximately 3 % of the administered dose appeared as unchanged nafarelin in urine .
The 14 C serum half - life of the metabolites was about 85 . 5 hours .
Six metabolites of nafarelin have been identified of which the major metabolite is Tyr - D ( 2 ) - Nal - Leu - Arg - Pro - Gly - NH2 ( 5 – 10 ) .
The activity of the metabolites , the metabolism of nafarelin by nasal mucosa , and the pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically - and renally - impaired patients have not been determined .
There appeared to be no significant effect of rhinitis , i . e . , nasal congestion , on the systemic bioavailability of SYNAREL ; however , if the use of a nasal decongestant for rhinitis is necessary during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing of SYNAREL .
In controlled clinical studies , SYNAREL at doses of 400 and 800 µg / day for 6 months was shown to be comparable to danazol , 800 mg / day , in relieving the clinical symptoms of endometriosis ( pelvic pain , dysmenorrhea , and dyspareunia ) and in reducing the size of endometrial implants as determined by laparoscopy .
The clinical significance of a decrease in endometriotic lesions is not known at this time and , in addition , laparoscopic staging of endometriosis does not necessarily correlate with severity of symptoms .
In a single controlled clinical trial , intranasal SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate ) at a dose of 400 µg per day was shown to be clinically comparable to intramuscular leuprolide depot , 3 . 75 mg monthly , for the treatment of the symptoms ( dysmenorrhea , dyspareunia and pelvic pain ) associated with endometriosis .
SYNAREL 400 µg daily induced amenorrhea in approximately 65 % , 80 % , and 90 % of the patients after 60 , 90 , and 120 days , respectively .
In the first , second , and third post - treatment months , normal menstrual cycles resumed in 4 % , 82 % , and 100 % , respectively , of those patients who did not become pregnant .
At the end of treatment , 60 % of patients who received SYNAREL , 400 µg / day , were symptom free , 32 % had mild symptoms , 7 % had moderate symptoms , and 1 % had severe symptoms .
Of the 60 % of patients who had complete relief of symptoms at the end of treatment , 17 % had moderate symptoms 6 months after treatment was discontinued , 33 % had mild symptoms , 50 % remained symptom free , and no patient had severe symptoms .
During the first two months use of SYNAREL , some women experience vaginal bleeding of variable duration and intensity .
In all likelihood , this bleeding represents estrogen withdrawal bleeding and is expected to stop spontaneously .
If vaginal bleeding continues , the possibility of lack of compliance with the dosing regimen should be considered .
If the patient is complying carefully with the regimen , an increase in dose to 400 µg twice a day should be considered .
There is no evidence that pregnancy rates are enhanced or adversely affected by the use of SYNAREL .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE FOR ENDOMETRIOSIS ( For Central Precocious Puberty , See Reverse Side ) SYNAREL is indicated for management of endometriosis , including pain relief and reduction of endometriotic lesions .
Experience with SYNAREL for the management of endometriosis has been limited to women 18 years of age and older treated for 6 months .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 .
Hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs or any of the excipients in SYNAREL ; 2 .
Undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding ; 3 .
Use in pregnancy or in women who may become pregnant while receiving the drug .
SYNAREL may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Major fetal abnormalities were observed in rats , but not in mice or rabbits after administration of SYNAREL during the period of organogenesis .
There was a dose - related increase in fetal mortality and a decrease in fetal weight in rats [ see Pregnancy ] .
The effects on rat fetal mortality are expected consequences of the alterations in hormonal levels brought about by the drug .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ; 4 .
Use in women who are breast - feeding [ see Nursing Mothers ] .
WARNINGS Safe use of nafarelin acetate in pregnancy has not been established clinically .
Before starting treatment with SYNAREL , pregnancy must be excluded .
When used regularly at the recommended dose , SYNAREL usually inhibits ovulation and stops menstruation .
Contraception is not insured , however , by taking SYNAREL , particularly if patients miss successive doses .
Therefore , patients should use nonhormonal methods of contraception .
Patients should be advised to see their physician if they believe they may be pregnant .
If a patient becomes pregnant during treatment , the drug must be discontinued and the patient must be apprised of the potential risk to the fetus .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other drugs that stimulate the release of gonadotropins or that induce ovulation , ovarian cysts have been reported to occur in the first two months of therapy with SYNAREL .
Many , but not all , of these events occurred in patients with polycystic ovarian disease .
These cystic enlargements may resolve spontaneously , generally by about four to six weeks of therapy , but in some cases may require discontinuation of drug and / or surgical intervention .
Information for Patients An information pamphlet for patients is included with the product .
Patients should be aware of the following information : 1 .
Since menstruation should stop with effective doses of SYNAREL , the patient should notify her physician if regular menstruation persists .
The cause of vaginal spotting , bleeding or menstruation could be noncompliance with the treatment regimen , or it could be that a higher dose of the drug is required to achieve amenorrhea .
The patient should be questioned regarding her compliance .
If she is careful and compliant , and menstruation persists to the second month , consideration should be given to doubling the dose of SYNAREL .
If the patient has missed several doses , she should be counseled on the importance of taking SYNAREL regularly as prescribed .
2 .
Patients should not use SYNAREL if they are pregnant , breastfeeding , have undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding , or are allergic to any of the ingredients in SYNAREL .
3 .
Safe use of the drug in pregnancy has not been established clinically .
Therefore , a nonhormonal method of contraception should be used during treatment .
Patients should be advised that if they miss successive doses of SYNAREL , breakthrough bleeding or ovulation may occur with the potential for conception .
If a patient becomes pregnant during treatment , she should discontinue treatment and consult her physician .
4 .
Those adverse events occurring most frequently in clinical studies with SYNAREL are associated with hypoestrogenism ; the most frequently reported are hot flashes , headaches , emotional lability , decreased libido , vaginal dryness , acne , myalgia , and reduction in breast size .
Estrogen levels returned to normal after treatment was discontinued .
Nasal irritation occurred in about 10 % of all patients who used intranasal nafarelin .
5 .
The induced hypoestrogenic state results in a small loss in bone density over the course of treatment , some of which may not be reversible .
During one six - month treatment period , this bone loss should not be important .
In patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content such as chronic alcohol and / or tobacco use , strong family history of osteoporosis , or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids , therapy with SYNAREL may pose an additional risk .
In these patients the risks and benefits must be weighed carefully before therapy with SYNAREL is instituted .
Repeated courses of treatment with gonadotropin - releasing hormone analogs are not advisable in patients with major risk factors for loss of bone mineral content .
6 .
Patients with intercurrent rhinitis should consult their physician for the use of a topical nasal decongestant .
If the use of a topical nasal decongestant is required during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing with SYNAREL .
Sneezing during or immediately after dosing with SYNAREL should be avoided , if possible , since this may impair drug absorption .
7 .
Retreatment cannot be recommended since safety data beyond 6 months are not available .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with SYNAREL .
However , because nafarelin acetate is a peptide that is primarily degraded by peptidase and not by cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , and the drug is only about 80 % bound to plasma proteins at 4 ° C , drug interactions would not be expected to occur .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of SYNAREL in therapeutic doses results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Normal function is usually restored within 4 to 8 weeks after treatment is discontinued .
Therefore , diagnostic tests of pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during treatment and up to 4 to 8 weeks after discontinuation of therapy with SYNAREL may be misleading .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies of nafarelin were conducted in rats ( 24 months ) at doses up to 100 µg / kg / day and mice ( 18 months ) at doses up to 500 µg / kg / day using intramuscular doses ( up to 110 times and 560 times the maximum recommended human intranasal dose , respectively ) .
These multiples of the human dose are based on the relative bioavailability of the drug by the two routes of administration .
As seen with other GnRH agonists , nafarelin acetate given to laboratory rodents at high doses for prolonged periods induced proliferative responses ( hyperplasia and / or neoplasia ) of endocrine organs .
At 24 months , there was an increase in the incidence of pituitary tumors ( adenoma / carcinoma ) in high - dose female rats and a dose - related increase in male rats .
There was an increase in pancreatic islet cell adenomas in both sexes , and in benign testicular and ovarian tumors in the treated groups .
There was a dose - related increase in benign adrenal medullary tumors in treated female rats .
In mice , there was a dose - related increase in Harderian gland tumors in males and an increase in pituitary adenomas in high - dose females .
No metastases of these tumors were observed .
It is known that tumorigenicity in rodents is particularly sensitive to hormonal stimulation .
Mutagenicity studies were performed with nafarelin acetate using bacterial , yeast , and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of mutagenic potential .
Reproduction studies in male and female rats have shown full reversibility of fertility suppression when drug treatment was discontinued after continuous administration for up to 6 months .
The effect of treatment of prepubertal rats on the subsequent reproductive performance of mature animals has not been investigated .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects See Contraindications .
Intramuscular SYNAREL was administered to rats during the period of organogenesis at 0 . 4 , 1 . 6 , and 6 . 4 µg / kg / day ( about 0 . 5 , 2 , and 7 times the maximum recommended human intranasal dose based on the relative bioavailability by the two routes of administration ) .
An increase in major fetal abnormalities was observed in 4 / 80 fetuses at the highest dose .
A similar , repeat study at the same doses in rats and studies in mice and rabbits at doses up to 600 µg / kg / day and 0 . 18 µg / kg / day , respectively , failed to demonstrate an increase in fetal abnormalities after administration during the period of organogenesis .
In rats and rabbits , there was a dose - related increase in fetal mortality and a decrease in fetal weight with the highest dose .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether SYNAREL is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because the effects of SYNAREL on lactation and / or the breastfed child have not been determined , SYNAREL should not be used by nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of SYNAREL for endometriosis in patients younger than 18 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Studies In formal clinical trials of 1509 healthy adult patients , symptoms suggestive of drug sensitivity , such as shortness of breath , chest pain , urticaria , rash and pruritus occurred in 3 patients ( approximately 0 . 2 % ) .
As would be expected with a drug which lowers serum estradiol levels , the most frequently reported adverse reactions were those related to hypoestrogenism .
In controlled studies comparing SYNAREL ( 400 µg / day ) and danazol ( 600 or 800 mg / day ) , adverse reactions most frequently reported and thought to be drug - related are shown in the figure below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] In addition , less than 1 % of patients experienced paresthesia , palpitations , chloasma , maculopapular rash , eye pain , asthenia , lactation , breast engorgement , and arthralgia .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Changes in Bone Density After six months of treatment with SYNAREL , vertebral trabecular bone density and total vertebral bone mass , measured by quantitative computed tomography ( QCT ) , decreased by an average of 8 . 7 % and 4 . 3 % , respectively , compared to pretreatment levels .
There was partial recovery of bone density in the post - treatment period ; the average trabecular bone density and total bone mass were 4 . 9 % and 3 . 3 % less than the pretreatment levels , respectively .
Total vertebral bone mass , measured by dual photon absorptiometry ( DPA ) , decreased by a mean of 5 . 9 % at the end of treatment .
After six months treatment with SYNAREL , bone mass as measured by dual x - ray bone densitometry ( DEXA ) , decreased 3 . 2 % .
Mean total vertebral mass , re - examined by DEXA six months after completion of treatment , was 1 . 4 % below pretreatment .
There was little , if any , decrease in the mineral content in compact bone of the distal radius and second metacarpal .
Use of SYNAREL for longer than the recommended six months or in the presence of other known risk factors for decreased bone mineral content may cause additional bone loss .
Changes in Laboratory Values During Treatment Plasma enzymes During clinical trials with SYNAREL , regular laboratory monitoring revealed that SGOT and SGPT levels were more than twice the upper limit of normal in only one patient each .
There was no other clinical or laboratory evidence of abnormal liver function and levels returned to normal in both patients after treatment was stopped .
Lipids At enrollment , 9 % of the patients in the group taking SYNAREL 400 µg / day and 2 % of the patients in the danazol group had total cholesterol values above 250 mg / dL .
These patients also had cholesterol values above 250 mg / dL at the end of treatment .
Of those patients whose pretreatment cholesterol values were below 250 mg / dL , 6 % in the group treated with SYNAREL and 18 % in the danazol group , had post - treatment values above 250 mg / dL .
The mean ( ± SEM ) pretreatment values for total cholesterol from all patients were 191 . 8 ( 4 . 3 ) mg / dL in the group treated with SYNAREL and 193 . 1 ( 4 . 6 ) mg / dL in the danazol group .
At the end of treatment , the mean values for total cholesterol from all patients were 204 . 5 ( 4 . 8 ) mg / dL in the group treated with SYNAREL and 207 . 7 ( 5 . 1 ) mg / dL in the danazol group .
These increases from the pretreatment values were statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 ) in both groups .
Triglycerides were increased above the upper limit of 150 mg / dL in 12 % of the patients who received SYNAREL and in 7 % of the patients who received danazol .
At the end of treatment , no patients receiving SYNAREL had abnormally low HDL cholesterol fractions ( less than 30 mg / dL ) compared with 43 % of patients receiving danazol .
None of the patients receiving SYNAREL had abnormally high LDL cholesterol fractions ( greater than 190 mg / dL ) compared with 15 % of those receiving danazol .
There was no increase in the LDL / HDL ratio in patients receiving SYNAREL , but there was approximately a 2 - fold increase in the LDL / HDL ratio in patients receiving danazol .
Other changes In comparative studies , the following changes were seen in approximately 10 % to 15 % of patients .
Treatment with SYNAREL was associated with elevations of plasma phosphorus and eosinophil counts , and decreases in serum calcium and WBC counts .
Danazol therapy was associated with an increase of hematocrit and WBC .
Post - Marketing Pituitary apoplexy : During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed , with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
Cardiovascular adverse events : Cases of serious venous and arterial thromboembolism have been reported , including deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , myocardial infarction , stroke , and transient ischemic attack .
Although a temporal relationship was reported in some cases , most cases were confounded by risk factors or concomitant medication use .
It is unknown if there is a causal association between the use of GnRH analogs and these events .
Central / peripheral nervous adverse events : Convulsion .
Hepatic adverse events : Rarely reported serious liver injury .
Reproductive system adverse events : Cases of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome have been reported with Synarel monotherapy when used for Assisted Reproductive Technology which is not an approved indication .
OVERDOSAGE In experimental animals , a single subcutaneous administration of up to 60 times the recommended human dose ( on a µg / kg basis , not adjusted for bioavailability ) had no adverse effects .
At present , there is no clinical evidence of adverse effects following overdosage of GnRH analogs .
Based on studies in monkeys , SYNAREL is not absorbed after oral administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the management of endometriosis , the recommended daily dose of SYNAREL is 400 µg .
This is achieved by one spray ( 200 µg ) into one nostril in the morning and one spray into the other nostril in the evening .
Treatment should be started between days 2 and 4 of the menstrual cycle .
In an occasional patient , the 400 µg daily dose may not produce amenorrhea .
For these patients with persistent regular menstruation after 2 months of treatment , the dose of SYNAREL may be increased to 800 µg daily .
The 800 µg dose is administered as one spray into each nostril in the morning ( a total of two sprays ) and again in the evening .
The recommended duration of administration is six months .
Retreatment cannot be recommended since safety data for retreatment are not available .
If the symptoms of endometriosis recur after a course of therapy , and further treatment with SYNAREL is contemplated , it is recommended that bone density be assessed before retreatment begins to ensure that values are within normal limits .
There appeared to be no significant effect of rhinitis , i . e . , nasal congestion , on the systemic bioavailability of SYNAREL ; however , if the use of a nasal decongestant for rhinitis is necessary during treatment with SYNAREL , the decongestant should not be used until at least 2 hours following dosing with SYNAREL .
Sneezing during or immediately after dosing with SYNAREL should be avoided , if possible , since this may impair drug absorption .
At 400 µg / day , a bottle of SYNAREL provides a 30 - day ( about 60 sprays ) supply .
If the daily dose is increased , increase the supply to the patient to ensure uninterrupted treatment for the recommended duration of therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Each 0 . 5 ounce bottle ( NDC 0025 - 0166 - 08 ) contains 8 mL SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate ) Nasal Solution 2 mg / mL ( as nafarelin base ) , and is supplied with a metered spray pump that delivers 200 µg of nafarelin per spray .
A dust cover and a leaflet of patient instructions are also included .
Store upright at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0173 - 12 . 0 Revised : April 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] SYNAREL nafarelin acetate Nasal Spray Patient Instructions for Use Introduction Your doctor has prescribed SYNAREL Nasal Solution to treat your symptoms of endometriosis .
This pamphlet has two purposes : • 1 . )
to review information your doctor has given you about SYNAREL ; and • 2 . )
to give you information about how to use SYNAREL properly .
Please read this pamphlet carefully .
If you still have questions after reading it or if you have questions at any time during your treatment with SYNAREL , be sure to check with your doctor .
SYNAREL is used to relieve the symptoms of endometriosis .
The lining of the uterus is called the endometrium , and part of it is shed during menses .
In endometriosis , endometrial tissue is also found outside the uterus and , like normal endometrial tissue , can bleed during a menstrual cycle .
It is , in part , this monthly activity that causes you to have symptoms during your cycle .
Most often , this out - of - place endometrial tissue is found around the uterus , ovaries , the intestine or other organs in the pelvis .
Although some women with endometriosis have no symptoms , many have problems such as severe menstrual cramps , pain during sexual intercourse , low back pain , and painful bowel movements .
Endometrial tissue is affected by the body ' s hormones , especially estrogen , which is made by the ovaries .
When estrogen levels are low , endometrial tissue shrinks ( perhaps even disappears ) , and symptoms of endometriosis ease .
SYNAREL temporarily reduces estrogen in the body and temporarily relieves the symptoms of endometriosis .
Important Information about SYNAREL • You should not use SYNAREL if • you are pregnant .
• you are breast feeding .
• you have abnormal vaginal bleeding that has not been checked into by your doctor .
• you are allergic to any of the ingredients of SYNAREL ( nafarelin acetate , benzalkonium chloride , acetic acid , sodium hydroxide , hydrochloric acid , sorbitol , purified water ) .
• SYNAREL is a prescription medicine that should be used according to your doctor ' s directions .
SYNAREL comes as a special nasal spray that gives a measured amount of medicine .
To be effective , SYNAREL must be used every day , twice a day , for the whole treatment period .
• It is important to use a non - hormonal method of contraception ( such as diaphragm with contraceptive jelly , IUD , condoms ) while taking SYNAREL .
You should not use birth control pills while taking SYNAREL .
• If you miss 1 or more doses of SYNAREL , vaginal bleeding ( often called breakthrough bleeding ) may occur .
If you miss successive doses of SYNAREL and have not been using contraception as described above , release of an egg from the ovary ( ovulation ) may occur , with the possibility of pregnancy .
Under these circumstances you must see your physician to make sure you are not pregnant .
If you should become pregnant while using SYNAREL , you must discuss the possible risks to the fetus and the choices available to you with your physician .
• Because SYNAREL works by temporarily reducing the body ' s production of estrogen , a female hormone produced by the ovary , you may have some of the same changes that normally occur at the time of menopause , when the body ' s production of estrogen naturally decreases .
For the first two months after you start using SYNAREL , you may experience some irregular vaginal spotting or bleeding .
The duration and intensity of this bleeding may vary ; it may be similar to your usual menstruation , or it may be lighter or heavier .
The duration may also vary from brief to prolonged .
In any case , you can expect this bleeding to stop by itself .
After the first two months of treatment with SYNAREL , you can expect a decrease in menstrual flow , and your periods may stop altogether .
However , if you miss one or more doses of SYNAREL , you may continue to experience vaginal bleeding .
If you continue to experience normal menstrual cycles after two months use of SYNAREL , you should see your doctor about the continued periods .
Other changes due to decreased estrogen include hot flashes , vaginal dryness , headaches , mood changes , and decreased interest in sex .
Most of these changes are caused by low estrogen levels and may occur during treatment with SYNAREL .
Some patients may also experience acne , muscle pain , reduced breast size , and irritation of the tissues inside the nose .
These symptoms should disappear after you stop taking the drug .
• When you take SYNAREL , your estrogen levels will be low .
Low estrogen levels can result in a small loss of mineral from bone , some of which may not be reversible .
During one six - month treatment period , this small loss of mineral from bone should not be important .
There are certain conditions that may increase the possibility of the thinning of your bones when you take a drug such as SYNAREL .
They are : • excessive use of alcohol ; • smoking ; • family history of osteoporosis ( thinning of the bones with fractures ) ; • taking other medications that can cause thinning of the bones .
You should discuss the possibility of osteoporosis or thinning of the bones with your physician before starting SYNAREL .
You should also be aware that repeat treatments are not recommended since they may put you at greater risk of bone thinning , particularly if you have the above conditions .
• During studies , menstruation usually resumed within 2 to 3 months of stopping treatment with SYNAREL .
At the end of treatment 60 % of patients treated with SYNAREL were symptom free , 32 % had mild symptoms , 7 % had moderate symptoms and 1 % had severe symptoms .
Of the 60 % of patients who had complete relief of symptoms at the end of treatment , 17 % had moderate symptoms at the end of the six month post - treatment period ; 33 % had mild symptoms ; 50 % were symptom free ; no patient had severe symptoms .
• Retreatment cannot be recommended since the safety of such retreatment is not known .
• It is all right to use a nasal decongestant spray while you are being treated with SYNAREL if you follow these simple rules .
Use SYNAREL first .
Wait at least 2 hours after using SYNAREL before you use the decongestant spray .
• You should avoid sneezing during or immediately after using SYNAREL , if possible , since sneezing may impair drug absorption .
Proper use of SYNAREL for Treatment of Endometriosis • When you start to use SYNAREL , the first dose should be taken between the second and fourth day after the beginning of your menstrual bleeding .
You should continue taking SYNAREL every day as prescribed .
Do not miss a single dose .
• Unless your doctor has given you special instructions , follow the steps for using SYNAREL twice each day , about 12 hours between doses : • once in the morning in one nostril ( for example , 7 a . m . ) • once in the evening in the other nostril ( for example , 7 p . m . ) The length of treatment is usually about 6 months , unless your doctor has given you special instructions .
• Because it is so important that you do not miss a single dose of SYNAREL , here are some suggestions to help you remember : • Keep your SYNAREL in a place where you will be reminded to use it each morning and each evening — next to your toothbrush is one possibility .
• Keep track of each dose on a calendar .
• Make a note on your calendar on the day you start a new bottle of SYNAREL .
You can also mark the date you started right on the bottle .
Be sure to refill your prescription before the 30 days are up so you will have a new bottle on hand .
• A bottle of SYNAREL should not be used for longer than 30 days ( 60 sprays ) .
Each bottle contains sufficient quantity of nasal solution for initial priming of the pump and 30 days ( 60 sprays ) of treatment .
At the end of 30 days , a small amount of liquid will be left in the bottle .
Do not try to use up that leftover amount because you might get too low a dose , which could interfere with the effectiveness of your treatment .
Dispose of the bottle and do not reuse .
• If your doctor increases your daily dose of SYNAREL , then your bottle will not last the standard 30 days .
Please discuss this with your doctor to be sure that you have an adequate supply for uninterrupted treatment with SYNAREL to complete the recommended treatment period .
Preparation of the SYNAREL Nasal Spray unit For use in your nose only .
Before you use SYNAREL nasal spray for the first time , you will need to prime it .
This will ensure that you get the right dose of medicine each time you use it .
Important Tips about using SYNAREL • Your pump should produce a fine mist , which can only happen by a quick and firm pumping action .
It is normal to see some larger droplets of liquid within the fine mist .
However , if SYNAREL comes out of the pump as a thin stream of liquid instead of a fine mist , SYNAREL may not work as well , and you should talk to your pharmacist .
• Be sure to clean the Spray Tip before and after every use .
( See Step 4 ) .
Failure to do this may result in a clogged tip that may cause you not to get the right amount of medicine that is prescribed for you .
• The pump is made to deliver only a set amount of medicine , no matter how hard you pump it .
• Do Not try to make the tiny hole in the spray tip larger .
If the hole is made larger the pump will deliver a wrong dose of SYNAREL .
Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] To Prime the Pump : Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Remove and save the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover from the spray bottle ( See Figure B ) .
Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Hold the bottle in an upright position away from you .
Put two fingers on the " shoulders " of the spray bottle and put your thumb on the bottom of the bottle .
Apply pressure evenly to the " shoulders " and push down quickly and firmly 7 to 10 times , until you see a fine spray .
Usually you will see the spray after about 7 pumps .
( See Figure C ) .
• 3 .
The pump is now primed .
Priming only needs to be done 1 time , when you start using a new bottle of SYNAREL .
You will waste your medicine if you prime the pump every time you use it and may not have enough medicine for 30 days of treatment .
Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Clean the Spray Tip after Priming : • Hold the bottle in a horizontal position .
Rinse the spray tip with warm water while wiping the tip with your finger or soft cloth for 15 seconds .
• Wipe the spray tip with a soft cloth or tissue to dry .
• Replace the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover on the spray bottle ( See Figure D ) .
• Do Not try to clean the spray tip using a pointed object .
Do Not take apart the pump .
How to use the SYNAREL Nasal Spray unit for the treatment of Endometriosis Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Gently blow your nose to clear both nostrils before you use SYNAREL nasal spray ( See Figure E ) .
Figure F [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
Clean the Spray Tip .
Remove and save the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover from the spray bottle ( See Figure F ) .
• Hold the bottle in a horizontal position .
Rinse the spray tip with warm water while wiping the tip with your finger or soft cloth for 15 seconds .
• Wipe the spray tip with a soft cloth or tissue to dry .
• Do Not try to clean the spray tip using a pointed object .
• Do Not try to take apart the pump .
Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Bend your head forward and put the spray tip into one nostril .
The tip should not reach too far into your nose .
Aim the spray tip toward the back and outer side of your nose ( See Figure G ) .
Figure H [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 .
Close the other nostril with your finger ( See Figure H ) .
• 9 .
Apply pressure evenly to the " shoulders " and push down quickly and firmly .
Pump the sprayer 1 time , at the same time as you sniff in gently .
If the sprayer fails to deliver the dose clean the spray tip ( See Step 6 Clean the Spray Tip ) .
Figure I [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 10 .
Remove the spray tip from your nose and tilt your head backwards for a few seconds .
This lets the SYNAREL spray spread over the back of your nose ( See Figure I ) .
Do not spray in your other nostril unless your doctor has instructed you to do so .
Figure J [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 11 .
Clean the Spray Tip after use ( See Step 4 ) .
It is important that you clean the spray tip before and after every use .
Failure to do this may result in a clogged tip that may cause you to get the wrong dose of medicine .
Important Reminder : Treatment with SYNAREL must be uninterrupted with no missed doses to be effective .
Make sure you use SYNAREL exactly as your doctor tells you .
Make sure to note the date you start each bottle so you do not run out of medicine and miss doses .
Keep out of the reach of children and use carefully as directed .
Storage Instructions : • Store SYNAREL at 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Store the SYNAREL bottle upright .
• Keep SYNAREL out of the light .
• Do not freeze SYNAREL .
This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0278 - 8 . 0 Revised : April 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEDICATION GUIDE SYNAREL ( sin - na - rell ) ( nafarelin acetate ) nasal solution What is the most important information I should know about SYNAREL ?
• Some people taking GnRH agonists like SYNAREL have had new or worsened mental ( psychiatric ) problems .
Mental ( psychiatric ) problems may include emotional symptoms such as : • crying • irritability • restlessness ( impatience ) • anger • acting aggressive Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems while taking SYNAREL • Some people taking GnRH agonists like SYNAREL have had seizures .
The risk of seizures may be higher in people who : • have a history of seizures .
• have a history of epilepsy .
• have a history of brain or brain vessel ( cerebrovascular ) problems or tumors .
• are taking a medicine that has been connected to seizures such as taking bupropion or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) .
Seizures have also happened in people who have not had any of these problems .
Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has a seizure while taking SYNAREL .
What is SYNAREL ?
SYNAREL is a gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) medicine used for the treatment of children with central precocious puberty ( CPP ) .
Do not give SYNAREL if your child : • is allergic to gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) , GnRH agonist medicines , or any of the ingredients in SYNAREL .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in SYNAREL .
• has unusual vaginal bleeding that has not been checked by her doctor .
• is pregnant or may become pregnant .
SYNAREL can cause birth defects or loss of the baby .
If your child becomes pregnant call your doctor .
• is breastfeeding or plans to breastfeed .
It is not known if SYNAREL passes into breast milk .
You and your child ' s doctor should decide if your child will take SYNAREL or breastfeed .
Do not breastfeed while taking SYNAREL .
Before your child takes SYNAREL , tell your doctor about all of your child ' s medical conditions , including if they : • have a history of mental ( psychiatric ) problems .
• have or have had a history of seizures .
• have a history of epilepsy .
• have a history of brain or brain vessel ( cerebrovascular ) problems or tumors • are taking a medicine that has been connected to seizures such as bupropion or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should your child take SYNAREL ?
• Your child ' s doctor should do tests to make sure your child has CPP before treating your child with SYNAREL .
• Keep all scheduled visits to the doctor .
If scheduled doses are missed , your child may start having signs of puberty again .
The doctor will do regular exams and blood tests to check for signs of puberty .
• Take SYNAREL exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
See detailed " Instructions for Use " at the end of this Medication Guide for information about the right way to use SYNAREL .
• Your child ' s doctor will tell you how much SYNAREL your child is to take and when to take it .
If your doctor increases your child ' s daily dose of SYNAREL , 1 bottle will not last the standard 7 days .
Talk with your child ' s doctor to make sure your child has enough SYNAREL to take their prescribed dose every day .
What should your child avoid while taking SYNAREL ?
• Your child should avoid sneezing while taking SYNAREL or right after using it , if possible .
This could reduce the amount of medicine your child ' s body absorbs .
• If your child needs to use a nasal decongestant spray while being treated with SYNAREL , they should not use the decongestant spray for at least 2 hours after taking the dose of SYNAREL .
What are the possible side effects of SYNAREL ?
SYNAREL may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about SYNAREL " • in the first month of treatment , SYNAREL can cause an increase in some hormones .
During this time you may notice more signs of puberty in your child , including vaginal bleeding and breast enlargement in girls .
Within 1 month of treatment , you should see signs in your child that puberty is stopping .
• increased pressure in the fluid around the brain can happen in children taking gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist medicines including SYNAREL .
Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has any of the following symptoms during treatment with SYNAREL : • headache • eye problems , including blurred vision • double vision and decreased eyesight • eye pain • ringing in the ears • dizziness • nausea The side effects of SYNAREL include : • allergic reactions such as shortness of breath , chest pain , hives , rash , and itching • acne • temporary increase in pubic hair • body odor • flaky , scaly skin • hot flashes • stuffy or runny nose ( rhinitis ) • white or brown vaginal discharge These are not all of the possible side effects of SYNAREL .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General Information about the safe and effective use of SYNAREL .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use SYNAREL for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not give SYNAREL to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about SYNAREL that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in SYNAREL ?
Active ingredient : nafarelin acetate Inactive ingredients : benzalkonium chloride , glacial acetic acid , sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) , sorbitol , and purified water Instructions for Use SYNAREL ( sin - na - rell ) ( nafarelin acetate ) nasal solution For use in the nose only .
Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Before you use SYNAREL nasal spray for the first time , you will need to prime it .
This will make sure that you get the right dose of medicine each time you use it .
Priming only needs to be done 1 time , when you start using a new bottle of SYNAREL .
To Prime the Pump : Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Remove and save the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover from the spray bottle ( See Figure B ) .
Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Hold the bottle in an upright position away from you .
Put 2 fingers on the " shoulders " of the spray bottle and put your thumb on the bottom of the bottle .
Apply pressure evenly to the " shoulders " and push down quickly and firmly 7 to 10 times , until you see a fine mist spray .
Usually you will see the spray after about 7 pumps .
( See Figure C ) .
The pump is now primed .
It is normal to see some larger droplets of liquid within the fine mist .
However , if SYNAREL comes out of the pump as a thin stream of liquid instead of a fine mist , SYNAREL may not work as well , and you should talk to your pharmacist .
Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Clean the Spray Tip after Priming : • Hold the bottle in sideways ( horizontal ) position ( see Figure D ) .
Rinse the " spray tip " with warm water while wiping the tip with your finger or soft cloth for 15 seconds .
• Wipe the spray tip with a soft cloth or tissue to dry .
• Replace the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover on the spray bottle .
( See Figure E ) .
• Do not try to clean the spray tip using a pointed object .
• Do not take apart the pump .
How to use the SYNAREL Nasal Spray for the treatment of Central Precocious Puberty Figure F [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Have your child blow their nose to clear both nostrils before using SYNAREL nasal spray ( see Figure F ) .
If the child is too young to blow their nose , you may need to clear the child ' s nostrils with a bulb syringe .
Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Clean the Spray Tip each time before and after using SYNAREL .
• Remove and save the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover from the spray bottle ( See Figure G ) .
• Hold the bottle in sideways ( horizontal ) position .
Rinse the spray tip with warm water while wiping the tip with your finger or soft cloth for 15 seconds .
• Wipe the spray tip with a soft cloth or tissue to dry .
• Do not try to clean the spray tip using a pointed object .
• Do not try to take apart the pump .
Figure H [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
The child ' s head should be bent back a little and the spray tip put into one nostril .
The tip should not reach too far into the nose .
Aim the spray tip toward the back and outer side of the nose ( See Figure H ) .
Figure I [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Close the other nostril with a finger ( See Figure I ) .
Put pressure evenly to the " shoulders " and push down quickly and firmly .
Pump the sprayer 1 time , at the same time as the child sniffs in gently .
Wait about 30 seconds and put one more spray in the same nostril .
Repeat this process in the other nostril , for a total of four sprays .
If the sprayer fails to deliver the dose , clean the spray tip ( See Step 5 Clean the Spray Tip each time before and after using SYNAREL ) .
Figure J [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 .
Remove the spray tip from the child ' s nose after all sprays are completed .
Keep the child ' s head tilted back for a few seconds .
This lets the SYNAREL spray spread over the back of the nose ( See Figure J ) .
Figure K [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 9 .
Clean the Spray Tip after use ( See Step 5 .
Put on the white safety clip and the clear plastic dust cover ( see Figure K ) .
It is important that you clean the spray tip before and after every use .
Not doing this may result in a clogged tip that may cause you to get the wrong dose of medicine .
How should I store SYNAREL ?
• Store SYNAREL at room temperature between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Store the SYNAREL bottle upright .
• Keep SYNAREL out of the light .
Keep SYNAREL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
For more information call 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 .
This Medication Guide and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Pfizer Inc . , 235 East 42 nd Street , New York , NY , 10017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1049 - 3 . 0 Revised : April 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 mL Bottle Label ALWAYS DISPENSE WITH MEDICATION GUIDE Pfizer NDC 0025 - 0166 - 08 Synarel ® ( nafarelin acetate ) nasal solution 2 mg / mL ( as nafarelin base ) SPRAY - FOR INTRANASAL USE ONLY .
Each actuation delivers approximately 200 mcg nafarelin .
8 mL ( 60 metered sprays ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 mL Bottle Carton ALWAYS DISPENSE WITH MEDICATION GUIDE Pfizer NDC 0025 - 0166 - 08 Synarel ® ( nafarelin acetate ) nasal solution 2 mg / mL ( as nafarelin base ) SPRAY – FOR INTRANASAL USE ONLY Each actuation delivers approximately 200 mcg nafarelin .
Carton contains : 1 bottle of nasal solution with spray pump , patient information and complete prescribing information .
Store upright .
8 mL ( 60 metered sprays ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
