Active ingredient ( in each bottle ) Activated charcoal 25 grams Purpose Poison adsorbent Use for emergency use to adsorb swallowed poisons Warnings • • do not give activated charcoal until after the patient has vomited unless directed by health professional • • do not use in persons who are not fully conscious • • do not use this product , unless directed by health professional , if turpentine , corrosives , such as alkalies ( lye ) and strong acids , or petroleum distillates , such as kerosene , gasoline , paint thinner , cleaning fluid or furniture polish , have been ingested • • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PROTECTIVE SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Remove Seal .
Reconstitute into an oral suspension by adding 4 oz .
of water to bottle , replacing cap and shaking well , or by pouring contents into a separate container , adding 4 oz .
water , and stirring thoroughly .
USE IMMEDIATELY , DO NOT STORE RECONSTITUTED PRODUCT .
6 to 12 lb 1 to 2 TBS of reconstituted liquid 12 to 24 lb 2 to 4 TBS of reconstituted liquid 24 to 48 lb 4 to 8 TBS of reconstituted liquid 48 lb + entire amount of reconstituted liquid Repeat dose immediately , if necessary .
Other information • • each bottle contains : magnesium 35 mg , potassium 18 mg , sodium 57 mg • • if previous attempts to contact a poison control center , emergency medical facility , or health professional were unsuccessful , continue trying • • keep patient active and moving • • save the container of poison • • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Inactive ingredient bentonite Questions ?
1 - 800 - 328 - 5113 Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel EZ Char ® ACTIVATED CHARCOAL PELLETS POISON ADSORBENT Read label warnings and directions upon buying this product .
For help using this product call a Poison Control Center , emergency medical facility , or health professional .
If help cannot be reached quickly , follow the directions on the label .
In case of poisoning call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
NET WEIGHT 0 . 88 oz ( 25 grams ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
