DESCRIPTION STATROL ® ( Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Ophthalmic Ointment , USP ) is a sterile ophthalmic drug combining two antibacterials in ointment form .
Each gram of ointment contains : Active : Neomycin Sulfate equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base , Polymyxin B Sulfate equal to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units .
Preservatives : Methylparaben 0 . 05 % , Propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
Inactive : White Petrolatum , Anhydrous Liquid Lanolin .
DM - 01 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The anti - infective components in STATROL Ophthalmic Ointment provide action against specific organisms susceptible to them .
Polymyxin B Sulfate and Neomycin Sulfate are active in vitro against Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against : Serratia marcescens , Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE STRATOL Ophthalmic Ointment is indicated in the topical treatment of infections of the external eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Such infections encompass conjunctivitis , keratitis , and keratoconjunctivitis , blepharitis and blepharoconjunctivitis , acute meibomianitis and dacryocystitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Should a sensitivity reaction occur , discontinue use .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Neomycin Sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
Remove contact lenses before using .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate measures should be initiated .
Whenever clinical judgment dictates ; the patient should be examined with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy , and , where appropriate , corneal staining .
Information for Patients This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the tube tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this tube by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep tube tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with Polymyxin B Sulfate .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in - vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentrations ( 80 µg / mL ) tested ; however , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B Sulfate has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Enects Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with STATROL ® ( Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Ophthalmic Ointment , USP ) .
It is also not known whether Neomycin Sulfate and / or Polymyxin B Sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
STATROL Ophthalmic Ointment should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether these drugs are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when STATROL Ophthalmic Ointment is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti - infective components .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations .
( SEE WARNINGS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill about a half - inch ribbon into the conjunctival sac ( s ) up to three or four times daily , or may be used adjunctively with the solution at bedtime .
HOW SUPPLIED STATROL ( Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Ophthalmic Ointment , USP ) in 3 . 5 g ophthalmic tube : NDC 0065 - 0624 - 36 .
STORAGE : Store at 46 ° - 80 ° F ( 8 ° - 27 ° C ) .
Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Alcon ® OPHTHALMIC ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas ; 76134 ; USA Revised : June 1995 Printed in USA 298392
