1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years and older .
• Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is a lincosamide antibiotic and retinoid combination product indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be applied once daily in the evening , gently rubbing the medication to lightly cover the entire affected area .
Approximately a pea - sized amount will be needed for each application .
Avoid the eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a pea - sized amount once daily in the evening lightly covering the entire affected area .
Avoid the eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , containing clindamycin phosphate 1 . 2 % and tretinoin 0 . 025 % , is a yellow , opaque topical gel .
Each gram of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel contains , as dispensed , 10 mg ( 1 % ) clindamycin as clindamycin phosphate , and 0 . 25 mg ( 0 . 025 % ) tretinoin solubilized in an aqueous - based gel .
• Topical gel : clindamycin phosphate 1 . 2 % and tretinoin 0 . 025 % in 30 - gram and 60 - gram tubes .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
• Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Colitis : Clindamycin can cause severe colitis , which may result in death .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure : Avoid exposure to sunlight , sunlamps , and weather extremes .
Wear sunscreen daily .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin .
If significant diarrhea occurs , Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be discontinued .
Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen severe colitis .
Severe colitis may result in death .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
5 . 2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be avoided during the use of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin .
Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution .
Daily use of sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , a hat ) are recommended .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Observed local treatment - related adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) in clinical trials with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel were application site reactions , including dryness , irritation , exfoliation , erythema , pruritus , and dermatitis .
Sunburn was also reported .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aqua Pharmaceuticals , at 1 - 866 - 665 - 2782 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety data reflect exposure to Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel in 1 , 104 subjects with acne vulgaris .
Subjects were 12 years and older and were treated once daily in the evening for 12 weeks .
Adverse reactions that were reported in ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Treatment - Related Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 1 % of Subjects Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel N = 1 , 104 n ( % ) Clindamycin Gel N = 1 , 091 n ( % ) Tretinoin Gel N = 1 , 084 n ( % 0 ) Vehicle Gel N = 552 n ( % ) Patients with at least one adverse reaction 140 ( 13 ) 38 ( 3 ) 141 ( 13 ) 17 ( 3 ) Application site dryness 64 ( 6 ) 12 ( 1 ) 62 ( 6 ) 3 ( 1 ) Application site irritation 50 ( 5 ) 4 ( < 1 ) 57 ( 5 ) 5 ( < 1 ) Application site exfoliation 50 ( 5 ) 2 ( < 1 ) 56 ( 5 ) 2 ( < 1 ) Application site erythema 40 ( 4 ) 6 ( 1 ) 39 ( 4 ) 3 ( 1 ) Application site pruritus 26 ( 2 ) 7 ( 1 ) 23 ( 2 ) 6 ( 1 ) Sunburn 11 ( 1 ) 6 ( 1 ) 7 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 ) Application site dermatitis 6 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) 8 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Local skin reactions actively assessed at baseline and end of treatment with a score > 0 are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Local Skin Reactions in Subjects Treated With Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel Vehicle Gel Local Reaction Baseline N = 476 ( % ) End of Treatment N = 409 ( % ) Baseline N = 219 ( % ) End of Treatment N = 209 ( % ) Erythema 24 % 21 % 31 % 35 % Scaling 8 % 19 % 14 % 12 % Dryness 11 % 22 % 18 % 13 % Burning 8 % 13 % 8 % 4 % Itching 17 % 15 % 22 % 14 % During the 12 weeks of treatment , each local skin reaction peaked at Week 2 and gradually reduced thereafter .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin - containing products because of its clindamycin component .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Erythromycin Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin - containing products due to possible antagonism to the clindamycin component .
In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these 2 antimicrobials .
The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known .
7 . 2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : The efficacy and safety have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 12 years .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women treated with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
A limit teratology study performed in Sprague Dawley rats treated topically with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel or 0 . 025 % tretinoin gel at a dose of 2 mL / kg during gestation days 6 to 15 did not result in teratogenic effects .
Although no systemic levels of tretinoin were detected , craniofacial and heart abnormalities were described in drug - treated groups .
These abnormalities are consistent with retinoid effects and occurred at 16 times the recommended clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison .
For purposes of comparison of the animal exposure to human exposure , the recommended clinical dose is defined as 1 g of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel applied daily to a 50 - kg person .
Clindamycin : Reproductive developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 480 and 240 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 180 mg / kg / day ( 140 and 70 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
Tretinoin : Oral tretinoin has been shown to be teratogenic in mice , rats , hamsters , rabbits , and primates .
It was teratogenic and fetotoxic in Wistar rats when given orally at doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 32 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
However , variations in teratogenic doses among various strains of rats have been reported .
In the cynomologous monkey , a species in which tretinoin metabolism is closer to humans than in other species examined , fetal malformations were reported at oral doses of 10 mg / kg / day or greater , but none were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( 324 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) , although increased skeletal variations were observed at all doses .
Dose - related teratogenic effects and increased abortion rates were reported in pigtail macaques .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Thirty cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported during 2 decades of clinical use of another formulation of topical tretinoin .
Although no definite pattern of teratogenicity and no causal association have been established from these cases , 5 of the reports describe the rare birth defect category , holoprosencephaly ( defects associated with incomplete midline development of the forebrain ) .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to fetus is not known .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
It is not known whether tretinoin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel in pediatric patients younger than 12 years have not been established .
Clinical trials of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel included 2 , 086 subjects aged 12 through 17 years with acne vulgaris .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) . ]
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % , is a fixed combination of 2 solubilized active ingredients in an aqueous - based gel .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
The structural formula for clindamycin phosphate is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C18H34ClN2O8PS Molecular Weight : 504 . 97 The chemical name for tretinoin is all - trans 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 1 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ) - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - nonatetraenoic acid .
It is a member of the retinoid family of compounds .
The structural formula for tretinoin is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C20H28O2 Molecular Weight : 300 . 44 Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , carbomer homopolymer ( type C ) , edetate disodium , laureth 4 , methylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water , and tromethamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clindamycin : [ See Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) . ]
Tretinoin : Although the exact mode of action of tretinoin is unknown , current evidence suggests that topical tretinoin decreases cohesiveness of folliculare epithelial cells with decreased microcomedone formation .
Additionally , tretinoin stimulates mitotic activity and increased turnover of follicular epithelial cells causing extrusion of the comedones .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In an open - label trial of 17 subjects with moderate - to - severe acne vulgaris , topical administration of approximately 3 grams of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel once daily for 5 days , clindamycin concentrations were quantifiable in all 17 subjects starting from 1 hour post - dose .
All plasma clindamycin concentrations were ≤ 5 . 56 ng / mL on Day 5 , with the exception of 1 subject who had a maximum clindamycin concentration of 8 . 73 ng / mL at 4 hours post - dose .
There was no appreciable increase in systemic exposure to tretinoin , as compared with the baseline value .
The average tretinoin concentration across all sampling times on Day 5 ranged from 1 . 19 to 1 . 23 ng / mL compared with the corresponding baseline mean tretinoin concentration range of 1 . 16 to 1 . 30 ng / mL .
12 . 4 Microbiology No microbiology studies were conducted in the clinical trials with this product .
Mechanism of Action : Clindamycin binds to the 50 S ribosomal subunit of susceptible bacteria and prevents elongation of peptide chains by interfering with peptidyl transfer , thereby suppressing protein synthesis .
Clindamycin has been shown to have in vitro activity against Propionibacterium acnes ( P . acnes ) , an organism that has been associated with acne vulgaris ; however , the clinical significance of this activity against P . acnes was not examined in clinical trials with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
P . acnes resistance to clindamycin has been documented .
Inducible Clindamycin Resistance : The treatment of acne with antimicrobials is associated with the development of antimicrobial resistance in P . acnes as well as other bacteria ( e . g . , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes ) .
The use of clindamycin may result in developing inducible resistance in these organisms .
This resistance is not detected by routine susceptibility testing .
Cross Resistance : Resistance to clindamycin is often associated with resistance to erythromycin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel or the effect of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel on fertility .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel was negative for mutagenic potential when evaluated in an in vitro Ames Salmonella reversion assay .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel was equivocal for clastogenic potential in the absence of metabolic activation when tested in an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay .
Clindamycin : Once - daily dermal administration of 1 % clindamycin as clindamycin phosphate in the gel vehicle ( 32 mg / kg / day , 13 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) to mice for up to 2 years did not produce evidence of tumorigenicity .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day of clindamycin ( 240 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Tretinoin : In 2 independent mouse studies where tretinoin was administered topically ( 0 . 025 % or 0 . 1 % ) 3 times per week for up to 2 years no carcinogenicity was observed , with maximum effects of dermal amyloidosis .
However , in a dermal carcinogenicity study in mice , tretinoin applied at a dose of 5 . 1 mcg ( 1 . 4 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) 3 times per week for 20 weeks acted as a weak promoter of skin tumor formation following a single application of dimethylbenz [ α ] anthracene ( DMBA ) .
In a study in female SENCAR mice , papillomas were induced by topical exposure to DMBA followed by promotion with 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate or mezerein for up to 20 weeks .
Topical application of tretinoin prior to each application of promoting agent resulted in a reduction in the number of papillomas per mouse .
However , papillomas resistant to topical tretinoin suppression were at higher risk for pre - malignant progression .
Tretinoin has been shown to enhance photocarcinogenicity in properly performed specific studies , employing concurrent or intercurrent exposure to tretinoin and UV radiation .
The photocarcinogenic potential of the clindamycin tretinoin combination is unknown .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should avoid exposure to sun .
The genotoxic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in an in vitro Ames Salmonella reversion test and an in vitrochromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Both tests were negative .
In oral fertility studies in rats treated with tretinoin , the no - observed - effect - level was 2 mg / kg / day ( 64 times the recommended clinical dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , applied once daily for the treatment of acne vulgaris , was evaluated in 12 - week multi - center , randomized , blinded trials in subjects 12 years and older .
Treatment response was defined as the percent of subjects who had a 2 - grade improvement from baseline to Week 12 based on the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) and a mean absolute change from baseline to Week 12 in 2 out of 3 ( total , inflammatory and non - inflammatory ) lesion counts .
The IGA scoring scale used in all the clinical trials for Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is as follows : 0 Clear Normal , clear skin with no evidence of acne vulgaris .
1 Almost Clear Skin almost clear ; rare non - inflammatory lesions present , with rare non - inflamed papules ( papules must be resolving and may be hyperpigmented , though not pink - red ) requiring no further treatment in the Investigator ' s opinion .
2 Mild Some non - inflammatory lesions are present , with few inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules only , no nodulo - cystic lesions ) .
3 Moderate Non - inflammatory lesions predominate , with multiple inflammatory lesions evident ; several - to - many comedones and papules / pustules , and there may or may not be 1 small nodulo - cystic lesion .
4 Severe Inflammatory lesions are more apparent ; many comedones and papules / pustules , there may or may not be a few nodulo - cycstic lesions .
5 Very Severe Highly inflammatory lesions predominate ; variable numbers of comedones , many papules / pustules and nodulo - cystic lesions .
In Trial 1 , 1 , 649 subjects were randomized to Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , clindamycin gel , tretinoin gel , and vehicle gel .
The median age of subjects was 17 years and 58 % were females .
At baseline , subjects had an average of 71 total lesions of which the mean number of inflammatory lesions was 25 . 5 lesions and the mean number of non - inflammatory lesions was 45 . 1 lesions .
The majority of subjects enrolled with a baseline IGA score of 3 .
The efficacy results at Week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Efficacy Results at Week 12 Trial 1 Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel N = 476 Clindamycin Gel N = 467 Tretinoin Gel N = 464 Vehicle Gel N = 242 Investigator ' s Global Assessment Percentage of subjects achieving 2 - Grade Improvement 36 . 3 % 26 . 6 % 26 . 1 % 20 . 2 % Percentage of subjects achieving an IGA of 0 or 1 with a 2 - Grade Improvement 33 . 2 % 24 . 0 % 22 . 6 % 17 . 8 % Inflammatory Lesions : Mean absolute reduction Mean percentage ( % ) reduction 15 . 5 60 . 4 % 14 . 5 56 . 5 % 13 . 9 54 . 5 % 11 . 1 43 . 3 % Non - Inflammatory Lesions : Mean absolute reduction Mean percentage ( % ) reduction 23 . 2 51 . 0 % 19 . 5 42 . 9 % 22 . 1 47 . 3 % 17 . 0 36 . 0 % Total Lesions : Mean absolute reduction Mean percentage ( % ) reduction 38 . 7 55 . 0 % 34 . 0 49 . 0 % 36 . 0 50 . 5 % 28 . 1 39 . 1 % The safety and efficacy of clindamycin - tretinoin gel was also evaluated in 2 additional 12 - week , multi - centered , randomized , blinded trials in subjects 12 years and older .
A total of 2 , 219 subjects with mild - to - moderate acne vulgaris were treated once daily for 12 weeks .
Of the 2 , 219 subjects , 634 subjects were treated with clindamycin - tretinoin gel .
These trials demonstrated consistent outcomes .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is supplied as follows : • 30 g aluminum tubes NDC 66993 - 959 - 31 • 60 g aluminum tubes NDC 66993 - 959 - 61 Storage and Handling • Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
• Protect from heat .
• Protect from light .
• Protect from freezing .
• Keep out of reach of children .
• Keep tube tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Instructions for Use • At bedtime , the face should be gently washed with a mild soap and water .
After patting the skin dry , apply Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel as a thin layer over the entire affected area ( excluding the eyes and lips ) .
• Patients should be advised not to use more than a pea - sized amount to cover the face and not to apply more often than once daily ( at bedtime ) as this will not make for faster results and may increase irritation .
• A sunscreen should be applied every morning and reapplied over the course of the day as needed .
Patients should be advised to avoid exposure to sunlight , sunlamp , ultraviolet light , and other medicines that may increase sensitivity to sunlight .
• Other topical products with a strong drying effect such as abrasive soaps or cleansers may cause an increase in skin irritation with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
Skin Irritation • Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , itching , burning , or stinging .
Colitis • In the event a patient treated with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel experiences severe diarrhea or gastrointestinal discomfort , Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should be discontinued and a physician should be contacted .
PATIENT INFORMATION Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % IMPORTANT : For use on skin only ( topical use ) .
Do not get Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read the Patient Information that comes with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is prescription medicine used on the skin to treat acne in people 12 years and older .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel is safe and effective in children younger than 12 years .
Who should not use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
Do not use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel if you have : • Crohn ’ s disease • ulcerative colitis • had inflammation of the colon ( colitis ) with past antibiotic use Talk to your doctor if you are not sure if you have one of these conditions .
What should I tell my doctor before using Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
Before using Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , tell your doctor if you : • have any allergies • plan to have surgery with general anesthesia .
One of the medicines in Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel can affect how certain anesthesia medicines work .
• have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel may harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel passes into your breast milk .
One of the medicines in Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel contains clindamycin .
When clindamycin is taken by mouth or injection , it may pass into breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines and skin products you use .
Especially tell your doctor if you take medicine that contains erythromycin .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel should not be used with products that contain erythromycin .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
• Use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel exactly as prescribed .
• Your doctor will tell you how long to use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
• Do not apply Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel more than one time each day .
• Do not use too much Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , because it may irritate your skin .
Instructions for applying Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel : • At bedtime , wash your face gently with a mild soap ; rinse with water .
• Pat the skin dry .
• Squeeze a pea - sized amount of medication onto one fingertip .
Then , gently rub over the entire affected area .
Do not get Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel in your eyes , mouth , or on your lips .
What should I avoid while using Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
• Limit your time in sunlight .
Avoid using tanning beds or sun lamps .
If you have to be in sunlight , wear a wide - brimmed hat or other protective clothing .
Apply a sunscreen every morning and re - apply during the day as needed .
• Avoid wind and cold weather during treatment with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
These may be irritating to your skin .
• Avoid using abrasive soaps and cleansers .
These may cause increased skin irritation with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
What are the possible side effects of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel may cause serious side effects , including : • Inflammation of the colon ( colitis ) .
Clindamycin , one of the ingredients in Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , can cause severe colitis that may lead to death .
Stop taking Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel and call your doctor if you develop severe watery diarrhea , or bloody diarrhea .
• Sunburn .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel may cause your skin to become sunburned more easily .
If your face is sunburned , do not use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel until your sunburn is completely healed .
Tretinoin , one of the medicines in Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel , makes your skin more sensitive to sunlight .
See “ What should I avoid while using Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ? ”
Common side effects of Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel include : • Skin irritation .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel may cause skin irritation such as dryness , peeling , burning , or itching .
Talk to your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
• Store Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel at room temperature , between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Protect from freezing .
• Keep Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel away from heat and light .
• Keep Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the patient information leaflet .
Do not use Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information call 1 - 866 - 665 - 2782 .
What are the ingredients in Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel ?
Active Ingredients : clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin Inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , carbomer homopolymer ( type C ) , edetate disodium , laureth 4 , methylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water , and tromethamine .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by DPT Laboratories , San Antonio , TX 78215 Manufactured for Prasco Laboratories , Mason , OH 45040 USA 140954 Revised 04 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 66993 - 959 - 31 - 30 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 66993 - 959 - 31 - 30 g Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 66993 - 959 - 61 - 60 g Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 66993 - 959 - 61 - 60 g Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
