FORM NO . 0036 Rev . 10 / 06 VC2912 Rx Only DESCRIPTION This product is an oral rinse containing 0 . 12 % chlorhexidine gluconate ( 1 , 1 ' - hexamethylene bis [ 5 - ( p - chlorophenyl ) biguanide ] di - D - gluconate ) in a base containing water , 11 . 6 % alcohol , glycerin , PEG - 40 sorbitan diisostearate , peppermint oil , saccharin sodium , and FD & C Blue # 1 .
The pH may be adjusted with hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide .
The solution is near - neutral ( pH range 5 – 7 ) .
Chlorhexidine gluconate is a salt of chlorhexidine and gluconic acid .
Its molecular formula is C22H30Cl2N10 • 2C6H12O7 , molecular weight 897 . 77 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Chlorhexidine gluconate provides antimicrobial activity during oral rinsing .
The clinical significance of chlorhexidine gluconate ’ s antimicrobial activities is not clear .
Microbiological sampling of plaque has shown a general reduction of counts of certain assayed bacteria , both aerobic and anaerobic , ranging from 54 – 97 % through six months ’ use .
Use of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse in a six - month clinical study did not result in any significant changes in bacterial resistance , overgrowth of potentially opportunistic organisms or other adverse changes in the oral microbial ecosystem .
Three months after chlorhexidine gluconate use was discontinued , the number of bacteria in plaque had returned to baseline levels and resistance of plaque bacteria to chlorhexidine gluconate was equal to that at baseline .
Pharmacokinetics : Pharmacokinetic studies with 0 . 12 % chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse indicate approximately 30 % of the active ingredient is retained in the oral cavity following rinsing .
This retained drug is slowly released into the oral fluids .
Studies conducted on human subjects and animals demonstrate chlorhexidine gluconate is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The mean plasma level of chlorhexidine gluconate reached a peak of 0 . 206 mcg / g in humans 30 minutes after they ingested a 300 - mg dose of the drug .
Detectable levels of chlorhexidine gluconate were not present in the plasma of these subjects 12 hours after the compound was administered .
Excretion of chlorhexidine gluconate occurred primarily through the feces ( ~ 90 % ) .
Less than 1 % of the chlorhexidine gluconate ingested by these subjects was excreted in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse is indicated for use between dental visits as part of a professional program for the treatment of gingivitis as characterized by redness and swelling of the gingivae , including gingival bleeding upon probing .
Chlorhexidine gluconate has not been tested among patients with acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis ( ANUG ) .
For patients having coexisting gingivitis and periodontitis , see PRECAUTIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used by persons who are known to be hypersensitive to chlorhexidine gluconate or other formula ingredients .
WARNINGS The effect of chlorhexidine gluconate on periodontitis has not been determined .
An increase in supragingival calculus was noted in clinical testing in chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse users compared with control users .
It is not known if chlorhexidine gluconate use results in an increase in subgingival calculus .
Calculus deposits should be removed by a dental prophylaxis at intervals not greater than six months .
Hypersensitivity and generalized allergic reactions have occurred .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
PRECAUTIONS General 1 .
For patients having coexisting gingivitis and periodontitis , the presence or absence of gingival inflammation following treatment with chlorhexidine gluconate should not be used as a major indicator of underlying periodontitis .
2 .
Chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse can cause staining of oral surfaces , such as tooth surfaces , restorations , and the dorsum of the tongue .
Not all patients will experience a visually significant increase in toothstaining .
In clinical testing , 56 % of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse users exhibited a measurable increase in facial anterior stain , compared to 35 % of control users after six months ; 15 % of chlorhexidine gluconate users developed what was judged to be heavy stain , compared to 1 % of control users after six months .
Stain will be more pronounced in patients who have heavier accumulations of unremoved plaque .
Stain resulting from use of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse does not adversely affect health of the gingivae or other oral tissues .
Stain can be removed from most tooth surfaces by conventional professional prophylactic techniques .
Additional time may be required to complete the prophylaxis .
Discretion should be used when prescribing to patients with anterior facial restorations with rough surfaces or margins .
If natural stain cannot be removed from these surfaces by a dental prophylaxis , patients should be excluded from chlorhexidine gluconate treatment if permanent discoloration is unacceptable .
Stain in these areas may be difficult to remove by dental prophylaxis and on rare occasions may necessitate replacement of these restorations .
3 .
Some patients may experience an alteration in taste perception while undergoing treatment with chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse .
Rare instances of permanent taste alteration following use of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse have been reported via postmarketing surveillance .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at chlorhexidine gluconate doses up to 300 mg / kg / day and 40 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have not revealed evidence of harm to the fetus .
However , adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women have not been done .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when chlorhexidine gluconate is administered to a nursing woman .
In parturition and lactation studies with rats , no evidence of impaired parturition or of toxic effects to suckling pups was observed when chlorhexidine gluconate was administered to dams at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day .
Pediatric Use Clinical effectiveness and safety of chlorhexidine gluconate have not been established for pediatric patients under the age of 18 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a drinking water study in rats , carcinogenic effects were not observed at doses up to 38 mg / kg / day .
Mutagenic effects were not observed in two mammalian in vivo mutagenesis studies with chlorhexidine gluconate .
The highest doses of chlorhexidine used in a mouse dominant - lethal assay and a hamster cytogenetics test were 1000 mg / kg / day and 250 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No evidence of impaired fertility was observed in rats at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common side effects associated with chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinses are ( 1 ) an increase in staining of teeth and other oral surfaces , ( 2 ) an increase in calculus formation , and ( 3 ) an alteration in taste perception ; see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
Oral irritation and local allergy - type symptoms have been spontaneously reported as side effects associated with the use of chlorhexidine gluconate rinse .
The following oral mucosal side effects were reported during placebo - controlled adult clinical trials : aphthous ulcer , grossly obvious gingivitis , trauma , ulceration , erythema , desquamation , coated tongue , keratinization , geographic tongue , mucocele , and short frenum .
Each occurred at a frequency of less than 1 . 0 % .
Among postmarketing reports , the most frequently reported oral mucosal symptoms associated with chlorhexidine gluconate are stomatitis , gingivitis , glossitis , ulcer , dry mouth , hypesthesia , glossal edema , and paresthesia .
Minor irritation and superficial desquamation of the oral mucosa have been noted in patients using chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse .
There have been cases of parotid gland swelling and inflammation of the salivary glands ( sialadenitis ) reported in patients using chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse .
OVERDOSAGE Ingestion of 1 or 2 ounces of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse by a small child ( ~ 10 kg body weight ) might result in gastric distress , including nausea , or signs of alcohol intoxication .
Medical attention should be sought if more than 4 ounces of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse is ingested by a small child or if signs of alcohol intoxication develop .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse therapy should be initiated directly following a dental prophylaxis .
Patients using chlorhexidine gluconate should be reevaluated and given a thorough prophylaxis at intervals no longer than six months .
Recommended use is twice daily oral rinsing for 30 seconds , morning and evening after toothbrushing .
Usual dosage is ½ fl .
oz .
( marked in cup ) of undiluted chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse .
Patients should be instructed to not rinse with water , or other mouthwashes , brush teeth , or eat immediately after using chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse .
Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse is not intended for ingestion and should be expectorated after rinsing .
HOW SUPPLIED Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse 0 . 12 % is supplied as a blue liquid in child - resistant bottles of one pint ( 473 mL ) , individually cartoned with a dosage cup .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in original container or in amber glass bottles .
Manufactured by : Actavis MidAtlantic LLC 7205 Windsor Blvd .
Baltimore , MD 21244 USA FORM NO . 0036 Rev . 10 / 06 VC2912 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
