Drug Facts : Active ingredients Octinoxate : 0 . 47 % Octocrylene : 0 . 79 % Benzophenone - 3 : 0 . 63 % Avobenzone : 0 . 79 % Octisalate : 0 . 47 % Purpose : Sunscreen Use • Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings For external use only Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
• Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Apply generously 15 minutes before the sun exposure • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sunlight .
• Store at room temperature : 15 C - 30 C Inactive ingredients Aqua / Water / Eau , Cyclopentasiloxane , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Glycerin , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Dimethicone , Isopropyl Myristate , Sorbitan Olivate , Cera Alba / Beeswax / Cire D ' abeille , Euphorbia Cerifera ( Candelilla ) Wax / Candelilla Cera / Cire De Candelilla , Phenoxyethanol , Parfum / Fragrance , Silica Dimethyl Silylate , Triethoxy Caprylylsilane , Triethanolamine , Ethylhexylglycerin , Linalool , Citronellol , Alpha - Isomethyl Ionone , Butylphenyl Methylpropional , Limonene .
May Contain ( + / - ) : Titanium Dioxide ( CI 77891 ) , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 , CI 77492 , CI 77499 ) BB CREAM SPF 15 MOISTURIZING SMOOTHING Provides moisture and color throughout the day thanks to its light formula .
Conceals dermal flaws and gives a healthy look to the skin .
Protects the skin from the harmful rays of the sun with SPF 15 .
Evens out skin tone and ensures a smoother appearance .
Suitable for all skin types .
ALIX AVIEN PARIS 34 Rue du l ' Escouvrier 95200 Sarcelles PARIS / FRANCE ALIX AVIEN KOZMETİK San .
Tic .
A . Ş .
Gazitepe Mah .
Aybar Sk .
No : 7 ISTANBUL / TURKEY www . celesty . com Distributed by CELESTY LLC 3970 NW 167 TH ST . MIAMI GARDENS , FL 33054 - USA info @ celesty . com MADE IN TURKEY Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
