1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BESIVANCE ® ( besifloxacin ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 6 % , is indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following bacteria : Aerococcus viridans * CDC coryneform group G Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum * Corynebacterium striatum * Haemophilus influenzae Moraxella catarrhalis * Moraxella lacunata * Pseudomonas aeruginosa * Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Staphylococcus hominis * Staphylococcus lugdunensis * Staphylococcus warneri * Streptococcus mitis group Streptococcus oralis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus salivarius * * Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
BESIVANCE ® ( besifloxacin ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 6 % is a quinolone antimicrobial indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following bacteria : Aerococcus viridans * , CDC coryneform group G , Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum * , Corynebacterium striatum * , Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis * , Moraxella lacunata * , Pseudomonas aeruginosa * , Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus hominis * , Staphylococcus lugdunensis * , Staphylococcus warneri * , Streptococcus mitis group , Streptococcus oralis , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus salivarius * * Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Invert closed bottle and shake once before use .
Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) 3 times a day , 4 to 12 hours apart for 7 days .
Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) 3 times a day , 4 to 12 hours apart for 7 days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic suspension containing 6 mg / mL ( 0 . 6 % ) of besifloxacin .
Ophthalmic suspension : besifloxacin 6 mg / mL ( 0 . 6 % ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Not for Injection into the Eye ( 5 . 1 ) • • Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use ( 5 . 2 ) • • Avoidance of Contact Lenses : Patients should not wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis or during the course of therapy with BESIVANCE .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Not for Injection into the Eye 5 . 2 Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use As with other anti - infectives , prolonged use of BESIVANCE ( besifloxacin ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 6 % may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If super - infection occurs , discontinue use and institute alternative therapy .
Whenever clinical judgment dictates , the patient should be examined with the aid of magnification , such as slit - lamp biomicroscopy , and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 3 Avoidance of Contact Lenses Patients should not wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis or during the course of therapy with BESIVANCE .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to BESIVANCE in approximately 1 , 000 patients between 1 and 98 years old with clinical signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
The most frequently reported ocular adverse reaction was conjunctival redness , reported in approximately 2 % of patients .
Other adverse reactions reported in patients receiving BESIVANCE occurring in approximately 1 - 2 % of patients included : blurred vision , eye pain , eye irritation , eye pruritus and headache .
The most common adverse reaction reported in 2 % of patients treated with BESIVANCE was conjunctival redness .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available human data for the use of BESIVANCE during pregnancy to inform any drug - associated risks ; however , systemic exposure to besifloxacin from ocular administration is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Oral administration of besifloxacin to pregnant rats during organogenesis or during the prenatal and postnatal period did not produce adverse embryofetal or offspring effects at clinically relevant systemic exposures [ see Data ] .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal development study in rats , the administration of besifloxacin at oral doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day during organogenesis was not associated with visceral or skeletal malformations in rat fetuses , although this dose was associated with maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight gain and food consumption ) and maternal mortality .
Increased post - implantation loss , decreased fetal body weights , and decreased fetal ossification were also observed .
At this dose , the mean Cmax in the rat dams was approximately 20 mcg / mL , approximately 46 , 500 times the mean plasma concentrations measured in humans at the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) .
The No Observed Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) for this embryofetal development study was 100 mg / kg / day ( Cmax , 5 mcg / mL , approximately 11 , 600 times the mean plasma concentrations measured in humans at the RHOD ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study in rats , the NOAELs for both fetal / neonate and maternal toxicity were 100 mg / kg / day .
At 1 , 000 mg / kg / day , pups weighed significantly less than controls and had a reduced neonatal survival rate .
Attainment of developmental landmarks and sexual maturation was delayed , although surviving pups from this dose group that were reared to maturity did not demonstrate deficits in behavior , including activity , learning and memory , and their reproductive capacity appeared normal .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of BESIVANCE in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , systemic exposure to besifloxacin following topical ocular administration is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , and it is not known whether measurable levels of besifloxacin would be present in maternal milk following topical ocular administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for BESIVANCE , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from BESIVANCE .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of BESIVANCE in infants below one year of age have not been established .
The efficacy of BESIVANCE in treating bacterial conjunctivitis in pediatric patients one year or older has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
There is no evidence that the ophthalmic administration of quinolones has any effect on weight - bearing joints , even though systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to cause arthropathy in immature animals .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION BESIVANCE ® ( besifloxacin ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 6 % is a sterile ophthalmic suspension of besifloxacin formulated with DuraSite ®† ( polycarbophil , edetate disodium dihydrate and sodium chloride ) .
Each mL of BESIVANCE contains 6 . 63 mg besifloxacin hydrochloride equivalent to 6 mg besifloxacin base .
It is an 8 - chloro fluoroquinolone anti - infective for topical ophthalmic use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C19H21ClFN3O3 • HCl Molecular Weight 430 . 30 Chemical Name : ( + ) - 7 - [ ( 3 R ) - 3 - aminohexahydro - 1 H - azepin - 1 - yl ] - 8 - chloro - 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 4 - oxo - 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid hydrochloride .
Besifloxacin hydrochloride is a white to pale yellowish - white powder .
Each mL contains : Active : besifloxacin 0 . 6 % ( 6 mg / mL ) ; Inactives : polycarbophil , mannitol , poloxamer 407 , sodium chloride , edetate disodium dihydrate , sodium hydroxide and water for injection .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % BESIVANCE is an isotonic suspension with an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Besifloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma concentrations of besifloxacin were measured in adult patients with suspected bacterial conjunctivitis who received BESIVANCE bilaterally three times a day ( 16 doses total ) .
Following the first and last dose , the maximum plasma besifloxacin concentration in each patient was less than 1 . 3 ng / mL .
The mean besifloxacin Cmax was 0 . 37 ng / mL on day 1 and 0 . 43 ng / mL on day 6 .
The average elimination half - life of besifloxacin in plasma following multiple dosing was estimated to be 7 hours .
12 . 4 Microbiology Besifloxacin is an 8 - chloro fluoroquinolone with an N - 1 cyclopropyl group .
The compound has activity against Gram - positive and Gram - negative bacteria due to the inhibition of both bacterial DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV .
DNA gyrase is an essential enzyme required for replication , transcription and repair of bacterial DNA .
Topoisomerase IV is an essential enzyme required for partitioning of the chromosomal DNA during bacterial cell division .
Besifloxacin is bactericidal with minimum bactericidal concentrations ( MBCs ) generally within one dilution of the minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
The mechanism of action of fluoroquinolones , including besifloxacin , is different from that of aminoglycoside , macrolide , and β - lactam antibiotics .
Therefore , besifloxacin may be active against pathogens that are resistant to these antibiotics and these antibiotics may be active against pathogens that are resistant to besifloxacin .
In vitro studies demonstrated cross - resistance between besifloxacin and some fluoroquinolones .
In vitro resistance to besifloxacin develops via multiple - step mutations and occurs at a general frequency of < 3 . 3 x 10 - 10 for Staphylococcus aureus and < 7 x 10 - 10 for Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Besifloxacin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria both in vitro and in conjunctival infections treated in clinical trials [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : • Aerococcus viridans * • CDC coryneform group G • Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum * • Corynebacterium striatum * • Haemophilus influenzae • Moraxella catarrhalis * • Moraxella lacunata * • Pseudomonas aeruginosa * • Staphylococcus aureus • Staphylococcus epidermidis • Staphylococcus hominis * • Staphylococcus lugdunensis * • Staphylococcus warneri * • Streptococcus mitis group • Streptococcus oralis • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus salivarius * • * Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of besifloxacin have not been performed .
No in vitro mutagenic activity of besifloxacin was observed in an Ames test ( up to 3 . 33 mcg / plate ) on bacterial tester strains Salmonella typhimurium TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 , TA1537 and Escherichia coli WP2uvrA .
However , it was mutagenic in S . typhimurium strain TA102 and E . coli strain WP2 ( pKM101 ) .
Positive responses in these strains have been observed with other quinolones and are likely related to topoisomerase inhibition .
Besifloxacin induced chromosomal aberrations in CHO cells in vitro and it was positive in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay at oral doses ≥ 1 , 500 mg / kg .
Besifloxacin did not induce unscheduled DNA synthesis in hepatocytes cultured from rats given the test compound up to 2 , 000 mg / kg by the oral route .
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats , besifloxacin did not impair the fertility of male or female rats at oral doses of up to 500 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 26 , 500 times higher than the mean plasma concentration measured in humans at the recommended human ophthalmic dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , double - masked , vehicle - controlled , multicenter clinical trial , in which patients 1 - 98 years of age were dosed 3 times a day for 5 days , BESIVANCE was superior to its vehicle in patients with bacterial conjunctivitis .
Clinical resolution was achieved in 45 % ( 90 / 198 ) for the BESIVANCE - treated group versus 33 % ( 63 / 191 ) for the vehicle - treated group ( difference 12 % , 95 % CI 3 % - 22 % ) .
Microbiological outcomes demonstrated a statistically significant eradication rate for causative pathogens of 91 % ( 181 / 198 ) for the BESIVANCE - treated group versus 60 % ( 114 / 191 ) for the vehicle - treated group ( difference 31 % , 95 % CI 23 % - 40 % ) .
Microbiologic eradication does not always correlate with clinical outcome in anti - infective trials .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 1241 NDC : 50090 - 1241 - 0 5 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Handling the Container Advise patients to avoid contaminating the applicator tip with material from the eye , fingers or other source .
Use with Contact Lenses Advise patients not to wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis or during the course of therapy with BESIVANCE .
Dosing Instructions Patients should be instructed to invert closed bottle ( upside down ) and shake once before each use .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA U . S . Patent Numbers : 6 , 685 , 958 ; 8 , 415 , 342 ; 8 , 481 , 526 ; 8 , 604 , 020 and 8 , 937 , 062 Besivance is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates † DuraSite is a trademark of Sun Pharma Global FZE .
9142708 ( folded ) 9142608 ( flat ) Besifloxacin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
