Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) 7 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VISUDYNE ® ( verteporfin for injection ) therapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with predominantly classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) due to age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) , pathologic myopia or presumed ocular histoplasmosis .
There is insufficient evidence to indicate VISUDYNE for the treatment of predominantly occult subfoveal CNV .
VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) therapy is a photoenhancer indicated for the treatment of patients with predominantly classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization due to age - related macular degeneration , pathologic myopia or presumed ocular histoplasmosis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended Dose : 6 mg / m2 body surface area .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Reconstitution : Reconstitute each vial of VISUDYNE with 7 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to provide 7 . 5 mL containing 2 mg / mL of verteporfin .
Reconstituted VISUDYNE must be protected from light and used within 4 hours .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Dilution : Dilute desired dose of reconstituted VISUDYNE with 5 % Dextrose for Injection to a total infusion volume of 30 mL .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Infusion : Administer intravenously over 10 minutes at a rate of 3 mL / minute , using an appropriate syringe pump and in - line filter .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Light Administration : The recommended light dose is 50 J / cm2 of neovascular lesion administered at an intensity of 600 mW / cm2 .
The wavelength of the laser light should be 689 ± 3 nm .
This light dose is administered over 83 seconds , starting 15 minutes after the start of the VISUDYNE infusion .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions A course of VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) therapy is a two - step process requiring administration of both drug and light .
• • The first step is the administration of VISUDYNE .
• • The second step is the activation of VISUDYNE with light from a nonthermal diode laser .
The physician should re - evaluate the patient 3 months after treatment and if choroidal neovascular leakage is detected on fluorescein angiography , therapy may be repeated .
Lesion Size Determination The greatest linear dimension ( GLD ) of the lesion should be estimated by fluorescein angiography and color fundus photography .
All classic and occult CNV , blood and / or blocked fluorescence , and any serous detachments of the retinal pigment epithelium should be included for this measurement .
Fundus cameras with magnification within the range of 2 . 4 - 2 . 6 X are recommended .
The GLD of the lesion on the fluorescein angiogram must be corrected for the magnification of the fundus camera to obtain the GLD of the lesion on the retina .
Spot Size Determination The treatment spot size should be 1 , 000 microns larger than the GLD of the lesion on the retina to allow a 500 micron border , ensuring full coverage of the lesion .
The maximum spot size used in the clinical trials was 6 , 400 microns .
The nasal edge of the treatment spot must be positioned at least 200 microns from the temporal edge of the optic disc , even if this will result in lack of photoactivation of CNV within 200 microns of the optic nerve .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage of VISUDYNE The recommended dose of VISUDYNE is 6 mg / m2 body surface area .
2 . 3 VISUDYNE Administration Avoid contact with the eyes and skin during preparation and administration of VISUDYNE .
Because of the potential to induce photosensitivity reactions , any exposed person must be protected from bright light [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Reconstitution Reconstitute each vial of VISUDYNE with 7 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
Each reconstituted vial provides 7 . 5 mL solution containing 2 mg / mL of verteporfin .
Reconstituted VISUDYNE must be protected from light and used within 4 hours .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Reconstituted VISUDYNE is an opaque dark green solution .
Dilution VISUDYNE may precipitate in saline solutions .
Do not use normal saline or other parenteral solutions , except 5 % Dextrose for Injection , for dilution of the reconstituted VISUDYNE .
Do not mix VISUDYNE in the same solution with other drugs .
The volume of reconstituted VISUDYNE required to achieve the desired dose of 6 mg / m2 body surface area is withdrawn from the vial and diluted with 5 % Dextrose for Injection to a total infusion volume of 30 mL .
After dilution , protect from light and use within 4 hours .
Intravenous Infusion The full infusion volume is administered intravenously over 10 minutes at a rate of 3 mL / minute , using an appropriate syringe pump and in - line filter .
The clinical studies were conducted using a standard infusion line filter of 1 . 2 microns .
Precautions should be taken to prevent extravasation at the injection site .
If extravasation occurs , protect the site from light [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Light Administration Initiate 689 nm wavelength laser light delivery to the patient 15 minutes after the start of the 10 - minute infusion with VISUDYNE .
Photoactivation of VISUDYNE is controlled by the total light dose delivered .
In the treatment of CNV , the recommended light dose is 50 J / cm2 of neovascular lesion administered at an intensity of 600 mW / cm2 .
This dose is administered over 83 seconds .
Light dose , light intensity , ophthalmic lens magnification factor and zoom lens setting are important parameters for the appropriate delivery of light to the predetermined treatment spot .
Follow the laser system manuals for procedure set up and operations .
The laser system must deliver a stable power output at a wavelength of 689 ± 3 nm .
Light is delivered to the retina as a single circular spot via a fiber optic and a slit lamp , using a suitable ophthalmic magnification lens .
The following laser systems have been tested for compatibility with VISUDYNE and are approved for delivery of a stable power output at a wavelength of 689 ± 3 nm : • Coherent Opal Photoactivator laser console and modified Coherent LaserLink adapter , manufactured by Lumenis , Inc . , 2400 Condensa Street , Santa Clara , CA 95051 - 0901 , • Zeiss VISULAS 690 s laser and VISULINK PDT adapter manufactured by Carl Zeiss Meditec Inc . , 5160 Hacienda Drive , Dublin , CA 94568 , • Ceralas I laser system and Ceralink Slit Lamp Adapter manufactured by Biolitec Inc . , 515 Shaker Road , East Longmeadow , MA 01028 , • Quantel Activis laser console and the ZSL30 ACT , ZSL120 ACT and HSBMBQ ACT slit lamp adapters distributed by Quantel Medical , 601 Haggerty Lane , Bozeman , MT 59715 .
2 . 5 Concurrent Bilateral Treatment The controlled trials only allowed treatment of one eye per patient .
In patients who present with eligible lesions in both eyes , physicians should evaluate the potential benefits and risks of treating both eyes concurrently .
If the patient has already received previous VISUDYNE therapy in one eye with an acceptable safety profile , both eyes can be treated concurrently after a single administration of VISUDYNE .
The more aggressive lesion should be treated first , at 15 minutes after the start of infusion .
Immediately at the end of light application to the first eye , the laser settings should be adjusted to introduce the treatment parameters for the second eye , with the same light dose and intensity as for the first eye , starting no later than 20 minutes from the start of infusion .
In patients who present for the first time with eligible lesions in both eyes without prior VISUDYNE therapy , it is prudent to treat only one eye ( the most aggressive lesion ) at the first course .
One week after the first course , if no significant safety issues are identified , the second eye can be treated using the same treatment regimen after a second VISUDYNE infusion .
Approximately 3 months later , both eyes can be evaluated and concurrent treatment following a new VISUDYNE infusion can be started if both lesions still show evidence of leakage .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 15 mg of verteporfin as a dark green lyophilized cake in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
VISUDYNE is intended for intravenous injection only .
Each reconstituted vial provides 7 . 5 mL solution containing 2 mg / mL of verteporfin .
• • For injection : 15 mg of verteporfin as a dark green lyophilized cake in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) • • Each reconstituted vial provides 7 . 5 mL solution containing 2 mg / mL of verteporfin .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) is contraindicated for patients with porphyria or a known hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) is contraindicated for patients with porphyria or a known hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Extravasation : If extravasation occurs , the infusion should be stopped immediately .
The extravasation area must be thoroughly protected from direct light until swelling and discoloration have faded in order to prevent the occurrence of local burn .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Exposure to Sun or Direct Light : Following injection with VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) , care should be taken to avoid exposure of skin or eyes to direct sunlight or bright indoor light for 5 days .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Anaphylactic Reactions : Immediately discontinue administration of VISUDYNE and initiate appropriate therapy if an anaphylactic or other serious allergic reaction occurs during or following infusion .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Local Adverse Reactions - Extravasation Standard precautions should be taken during infusion of VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) to avoid extravasation .
Examples of standard precautions include , but are not limited to : • • A free - flowing intravenous ( IV ) line should be established before starting VISUDYNE infusion and the line should be carefully monitored .
• • Due to the possible fragility of vein walls of some elderly patients , it is strongly recommended that the largest arm vein possible , preferably antecubital , be used for injection .
• • Small veins in the back of the hand should be avoided .
Extravasation of VISUDYNE , especially if the affected area is exposed to light , can cause severe pain , inflammation , swelling or discoloration at the injection site .
Localized ( skin ) necrosis at the injection site following extravasation has also been reported .
If extravasation does occur , the infusion should be stopped immediately .
The extravasation area must be thoroughly protected from direct light until swelling and discoloration have faded in order to prevent the occurrence of local burn , which could be severe .
Cold compresses should be applied to the injection site .
Oral medications for pain relief may be administered .
5 . 2 Exposure to Sun or Direct Light Following injection with VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) , care should be taken to avoid exposure of skin or eyes to direct sunlight or bright indoor light for 5 days .
In the event of extravasation during infusion , the extravasation area must be thoroughly protected from direct light until the swelling and discoloration have faded in order to prevent the occurrence of a local burn which could be severe .
If emergency surgery is necessary within 48 hours after treatment , as much of the internal tissue as possible should be protected from intense light .
5 . 3 Decreased Vision After Treatment Patients who experience severe decrease of vision of 4 lines or more within 1 week after treatment should not be retreated , at least until their vision completely recovers to pretreatment levels and the potential benefits and risks of subsequent treatment are carefully considered by the treating physician .
5 . 4 Anaphylactic Reactions Cases of anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients receiving VISUDYNE .
Medical supervision is recommended during infusion .
If an anaphylactic or other serious allergic reaction occurs during or following infusion , administration of VISUDYNE should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy should be initiated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Local Adverse Reactions – Extravasation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Exposure to Sun or Direct Light [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Decreased Vision after Treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Porphyria and Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ˃ 10 % ) are injection site reactions and visual disturbances .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Severe chest pain , vasovagal and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported .
Vasovagal and hypersensitivity reactions on rare occasions can be severe .
These reactions may include syncope , sweating , dizziness , rash , dyspnea , flushing and changes in blood pressure and heart rate .
General symptoms can include headache , malaise , urticaria , and pruritus .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions to VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) are injection site reactions ( including pain , edema , inflammation , extravasation , rashes , hemorrhage and discoloration ) and visual disturbances ( including blurred vision , flashes of light , decreased visual acuity and visual field defects , including scotoma ) .
These events occurred in approximately 10 % - 30 % of patients .
The following events , listed by Body System , were reported more frequently with VISUDYNE therapy than with placebo therapy and occurred in 1 % - 10 % of patients : Ocular Treatment Site : Blepharitis , cataracts , conjunctivitis / conjunctival injection , dry eyes , ocular itching , severe vision decrease with or without subretinal / retinal or vitreous hemorrhage Body as a Whole : Asthenia , fever , flu syndrome , infusion related pain primarily presenting as back pain , photosensitivity reactions Cardiovascular : Atrial fibrillation , hypertension , peripheral vascular disorder , varicose veins Dermatologic : Eczema Digestive : Constipation , gastrointestinal cancers , nausea Hemic and Lymphatic : Anemia , white blood cell count decreased , white blood cell count increased Hepatic : Elevated liver function tests Metabolic / Nutritional : Albuminuria , creatinine increased Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , arthrosis , myasthenia Nervous System : Hypesthesia , sleep disorder , vertigo Respiratory : Cough , pharyngitis , pneumonia Special Senses : Cataracts , decreased hearing , diplopia , lacrimation disorder Urogenital : Prostatic disorder Severe vision decrease , equivalent of > 4 lines , within 7 days after treatment has been reported in 1 % - 5 % of patients .
Partial recovery of vision was observed in some patients .
Photosensitivity reactions usually occurred in the form of skin sunburn following exposure to sunlight .
The higher incidence of back pain in the VISUDYNE group occurred primarily during infusion .
The following adverse events have occurred either at low incidence ( < 1 % ) during clinical trials or have been reported during the use of VISUDYNE in clinical practice where these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size and frequency of occurrence cannot be determined precisely .
They have been chosen for inclusion based on factors such as seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to VISUDYNE , or a combination of these factors : Ocular Treatment Site : Retinal detachment ( nonrhegmatogenous ) , retinal or choroidal vessel nonperfusion , retinal pigment epithelial tear .
Non - ocular Events : Chest pain and other musculoskeletal pain during infusion , anaphylactic reaction during or following infusion , injection site necrosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interaction studies in humans have not been conducted with VISUDYNE .
Verteporfin is rapidly eliminated by the liver , mainly as unchanged drug .
Metabolism is limited and occurs by liver and plasma esterases .
Microsomal cytochrome P450 does not appear to play a role in verteporfin metabolism .
Based on the mechanism of action of verteporfin , many drugs used concomitantly could influence the effect of VISUDYNE therapy .
Possible examples include the following : Calcium channel blockers , polymyxin B or radiation therapy could enhance the rate of VISUDYNE uptake by the vascular endothelium .
Other photosensitizing agents ( e . g . , tetracyclines , sulfonamides , phenothiazines , sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agents , thiazide diuretics and griseofulvin ) could increase the potential for skin photosensitivity reactions .
Compounds that quench active oxygen species or scavenge radicals , such as dimethyl sulfoxide , β - carotene , ethanol , formate and mannitol , would be expected to decrease VISUDYNE activity .
Drugs that decrease clotting , vasoconstriction or platelet aggregation , e . g . , thromboxane A2 inhibitors , could also decrease the efficacy of VISUDYNE therapy .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data with the use of VISUDYNE in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
Intravenous administration of verteporfin to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis produced an increase in the incidence of anophthalmia / microphthalmia and wavy ribs at exposures approximately 40 - fold the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
Verteporfin did not produce adverse fetal effect in rats or rabbits at exposures 6 - to 20 - fold the human exposure at the recommended clinical dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
VISUDYNE should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Rat fetuses of dams administered verteporfin for injection intravenously during organogenesis exhibited an increase in the incidence of anophthalmia / microphthalmia and wavy ribs at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 40 - fold the human exposure at the recommended dose of 6 mg / m2 , based on AUC in female rats ) .
No teratogenic effects were observed in rat fetuses at a dose of 2 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 - fold the human exposure at the recommended dose of 6 mg / m2 , based on AUC in female rats ) .
In pregnant rabbits , a decrease in maternal body weight gain and food consumption was observed in animals that received verteporfin for injection intravenously at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day during organogenesis .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for maternal toxicity was 3 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 - fold the recommended human dose of 6 mg / m2 , based on body surface area ) .
No teratogenic effects were observed in rabbit fetuses at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 20 - fold the recommended human dose of 6 mg / m2 , based on body surface area ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Verteporfin and its diacid metabolite have been found in human breast milk following an intravenous infusion at the recommended human dose of 6 mg / m2 .
Verteporfin was present in breast milk at levels up to 66 % of the corresponding plasma levels and declined below the limit of quantification ( 2 ng / mL ) within 24 hours .
The diacid metabolite had lower peak concentrations but persisted up to at least 48 hours .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from VISUDYNE , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or postpone treatment , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Approximately 90 % of the patients treated with VISUDYNE in the clinical efficacy trials were over the age of 65 .
A reduced treatment effect was seen with increasing age .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of drug and / or light in the treated eye may result in non - perfusion of normal retinal vessels with the possibility of severe decrease in vision that could be permanent .
An overdose of drug will also result in the prolongation of the period during which the patient remains photosensitive to bright light .
In such cases , it is recommended to extend the photosensitivity precautions for a time proportional to the overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) is a light activated drug used in photodynamic therapy .
The finished drug product is a lyophilized dark green cake .
Verteporfin is a 1 : 1 mixture of two regioisomers ( I and II ) , represented by the following structures : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical names for the verteporfin regioisomers are : 9 - methyl ( I ) and 13 - methyl ( II ) trans - ( ± ) - 18 - ethenyl - 4 , 4 a , - dihydro - 3 , 4 - bis ( methoxycarbonyl ) - 4 a , 8 , 14 , 19 - tetramethyl - 23 H , 25 H - benzo [ b ] porphine - 9 , 13 - dipropanoate The molecular formula is C41H42N4O8 with a molecular weight of approximately 718 . 8 .
Each mL of reconstituted VISUDYNE contains : • ACTIVE : verteporfin , 2 mg • INACTIVES : ascorbyl palmitate , butylated hydroxytoluene , dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine , egg phosphatidylglycerol and lactose [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) therapy is a two - stage process requiring administration of both verteporfin for injection and nonthermal red light .
Verteporfin is transported in the plasma primarily by lipoproteins .
Once verteporfin is activated by light in the presence of oxygen , highly reactive , short - lived singlet oxygen and reactive oxygen radicals are generated .
Light activation of verteporfin results in local damage to neovascular endothelium , resulting in vessel occlusion .
Damaged endothelium is known to release procoagulant and vasoactive factors through the lipoxygenase ( leukotriene ) and cyclooxygenase ( eicosanoids such as thromboxane ) pathways , resulting in platelet aggregation , fibrin clot formation and vasoconstriction .
Verteporfin appears to somewhat preferentially accumulate in neovasculature , including choroidal neovasculature .
However , animal models indicate that the drug is also present in the retina .
Therefore , there may be collateral damage to retinal structures following photoactivation including the retinal pigmented epithelium and outer nuclear layer of the retina .
The temporary occlusion of the CNV following VISUDYNE therapy has been confirmed in humans by fluorescein angiography .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following intravenous infusion , verteporfin exhibits a bi - exponential elimination with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 5 - 6 hours .
The extent of exposure and the maximal plasma concentration are proportional to the dose between 6 and 20 mg / m2 .
At the intended dose , pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly affected by gender .
Verteporfin is metabolized to a small extent to its diacid metabolite by liver and plasma esterases .
NADPH - dependent liver enzyme systems ( including the cytochrome P450 isozymes ) do not appear to play a role in the metabolism of verteporfin .
Elimination is by the fecal route , with less than 0 . 01 % of the dose recovered in urine .
In a study of patients with mild hepatic insufficiency ( defined as having two abnormal hepatic function tests at enrollment ) , AUC and Cmax were not significantly different from the control group ; half - life , however , was significantly increased by approximately 20 % .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No studies have been conducted to determine the carcinogenic potential of verteporfin .
Mutagenesis Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) as a class has been reported to result in DNA damage including DNA strand breaks , alkali - labile sites , DNA degradation , and DNA - protein cross - links which may result in chromosomal aberrations , sister chromatid exchanges ( SCE ) , and mutations .
In addition , other photodynamic therapeutic agents have been shown to increase the incidence of SCE in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells irradiated with visible light and in Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts irradiated with near UV light , increase mutations and DNA - protein cross - linking in mouse L5178 cells , and increase DNA - strand breaks in malignant human cervical carcinoma cells , but not in normal cells .
Verteporfin was not evaluated in these latter systems .
It is not known how the potential for DNA damage with PDT agents translates into human risk .
Impairment of Fertility No effect on male or female fertility has been observed in rats following intravenous administration of verteporfin for injection up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 60 - and 40 - fold human exposure at 6 mg / m2 based on AUC in male and female rats , respectively ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology At a > 10 - fold higher dose given by bolus injection to sedated or anesthetized pigs , verteporfin caused severe hemodynamic effects , including death , probably as a result of complement activation .
These effects were diminished or abolished by pretreatment with antihistamine and they were not seen in conscious nonsedated pigs .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Age - Related Macular Degeneration Two adequate and well - controlled , double - masked , placebo - controlled , randomized studies were conducted in patients with classic - containing subfoveal CNV secondary to AMD .
A total of 609 patients ( VISUDYNE 402 , placebo 207 ) were enrolled in these two studies .
During these studies , retreatment was allowed every 3 months if fluorescein angiograms showed any recurrence or persistence of leakage .
The placebo control ( sham treatment ) consisted of intravenous administration of Dextrose 5 % in Water , followed by light application identical to that used for VISUDYNE therapy .
The difference between treatment groups statistically favored VISUDYNE at the 1 - year and 2 - year analyses for visual acuity endpoints .
The subgroup of patients with predominately classic CNV lesions was more likely to exhibit a treatment benefit ( N = 242 ; VISUDYNE 159 , placebo 83 ) .
Predominantly classic CNV lesions were defined as those in which the classic component comprised 50 % or more of the area of the entire lesion .
For the primary efficacy endpoint ( percentage of patients who lost less than 3 lines of visual acuity ) , these patients showed a difference of approximately 28 % between treatment groups at both Months 12 and 24 ( 67 % for VISUDYNE patients compared to 40 % for placebo patients , at Month 12 ; and 59 % for VISUDYNE patients compared to 31 % for placebo patients , at Month 24 ) .
Severe vision loss ( ≥ 6 lines of visual acuity from baseline ) was experienced by 12 % of VISUDYNE - treated patients compared to 34 % of placebo - treated patients at Month 12 , and by 15 % of VISUDYNE - treated patients compared to 36 % of placebo - treated patients at Month 24 .
Patients with predominantly classic CNV lesions that did not contain occult CNV exhibited the greatest benefit ( N = 134 ; VISUDYNE 90 , placebo 44 ) .
At 1 year , these patients demonstrated a 49 % difference between treatment groups when assessed by the < 3 lines - lost definition ( 77 % vs . 27 % ) .
Older patients ( ≥ 75 years ) , patients with dark irides , patients with occult lesions or patients with less than 50 % classic CNV were less likely to benefit from VISUDYNE therapy .
The safety and efficacy of VISUDYNE beyond 2 years have not been demonstrated .
Based on the Treatment of Age Related Macular Degeneration with Photodynamic Therapy Study ( TAP ) extension study , the average number of treatments per year was 3 . 5 in the first year after diagnosis , 2 . 4 in the second , 1 . 3 in the third , 0 . 4 in the fourth and 0 . 1 in the fifth year .
14 . 2 Pathologic Myopia One adequate and well - controlled , double - masked , placebo - controlled , randomized study was conducted in patients with subfoveal CNV secondary to pathologic myopia .
A total of 120 patients ( VISUDYNE 81 , placebo 39 ) were enrolled in the study .
The treatment dosing and retreatments were the same as in the AMD studies .
The difference between treatment groups statistically favored VISUDYNE at the 1 - year analysis but not at the 2 - year analysis for visual acuity endpoints .
For the primary efficacy endpoint ( percentage of patients who lost less than 3 lines of visual acuity ) , patients at the 1 - year timepoint showed a difference of approximately 19 % between treatment groups ( 86 % for VISUDYNE patients compared to 67 % for placebo patients ) .
However , by the 2 - year timepoint , the effect was no longer statistically significant ( 79 % for VISUDYNE patients compared to 72 % for placebo patients ) .
Based on the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy in Pathologic Myopia ( VIP - PM ) extension study in pathologic myopia , the average number of treatments per year was 3 . 5 in the first year after diagnosis , 1 . 8 in the second , 0 . 4 in the third , 0 . 2 in the fourth and 0 . 1 in the fifth .
14 . 3 Presumed Ocular Histoplasmosis One open - label study was conducted in patients with subfoveal CNV secondary to presumed ocular histoplasmosis .
A total of 26 patients were treated with VISUDYNE in the study .
The treatment dosing and retreatments for VISUDYNE were the same as the AMD studies .
VISUDYNE - treated patients compare favorably with historical control data demonstrating a reduction in the number of episodes of severe visual acuity loss ( > 6 lines of loss ) .
Based on the VISUDYNE Ocular Histoplasmosis extension study in presumed ocular histoplasmosis , the average number of treatments per year was 2 . 9 in the first year after diagnosis , 1 . 2 in the second , 0 . 2 in the third and 0 . 1 in the fourth .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VISUDYNE ( verteporfin for injection ) is supplied in a single - dose glass vial with a gray bromobutyl stopper and aluminum flip - off cap .
It contains a lyophilized dark green cake with 15 mg verteporfin .
• NDC 0187 - 5600 - 15 Store VISUDYNE between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
16 . 1 Spills and Disposal Spills of VISUDYNE should be wiped up with a damp cloth .
Skin and eye contact should be avoided due to the potential for photosensitivity reactions upon exposure to light .
Use of rubber gloves and eye protection is recommended .
All materials should be disposed of properly .
16 . 2 Accidental Exposure Because of the potential to induce photosensitivity reactions , it is important to avoid contact with the eyes and skin during preparation and administration of VISUDYNE .
Any exposed person must be protected from bright light [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients who receive VISUDYNE that they will become temporarily photosensitive after the infusion .
Patients should be advised to wear a wristband to remind them to avoid direct sunlight for 5 days .
During that period , patients should be advised to avoid exposure of unprotected skin , eyes or other body organs to direct sunlight or bright indoor light .
Sources of bright light include , but are not limited to , tanning salons , bright halogen lighting and high power lighting used in surgical operating rooms or dental offices .
Prolonged exposure to light from light - emitting medical devices such as pulse oximeters should also be avoided for 5 days following VISUDYNE administration .
If treated patients must go outdoors in daylight during the first 5 days after treatment , they should be advised to protect all parts of their skin and their eyes by wearing protective clothing and dark sunglasses .
UV sunscreens are not effective in protecting against photosensitivity reactions because photoactivation of the residual drug in the skin can be caused by visible light .
Patients should be advised to not stay in the dark and should be encouraged to expose their skin to ambient indoor light , as it will help inactivate the drug in the skin through a process called photobleaching .
Following VISUDYNE treatment , patients should be advised that they may develop visual disturbances such as abnormal vision , vision decrease , or visual field defects that may interfere with their ability to drive or use machines .
Patients should be advised to not drive or use machines as long as these symptoms persist .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Alcami Carolinas Corporation Charleston , SC 29405 USA VISUDYNE is a registered trademark of CHEPLAPHARM ARZNEIMITTEL GMBH used under license .
Other product / brand names are trademarks of the respective owners .
© 2021 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9589702 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 5600 - 15 Rx only Visudyne ® ( verteporfin for injection ) Sterile 15 mg 1 Single - Use Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
