Active ingredient Purpose Salicylic Acid , 2 % ....................................... Acne Treatment Uses - for the treatment of acne - reduces the number of acne pimples and blackheads - allows skin to heal - helps prevent new acne pimples from forming Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before using this product - use the pad to clean and treat the entire affected area one to three times daily .
Do not rinse - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce the application to once a day or every other day Other Information - keep tightly closed .
Keep away from flame , fire and heat - store at room temperature - lot number and expiration date see jar Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Warnings For external use only .
Do not use - if you have very sensitive skin or known allergy to salicylic acid Stop use and ask a doctor if excessive itching , dryness , redness , burning or swelling occurs or if these symptoms persist When using this product - keep away from eyes , lips , and other mucous membranes .
If contact occurs flush thoroughly with water - do not leave pad on the skin for an extended period of time - using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before using this product - use the pad to clean and treat the entire affected area one to three times daily .
Do not rinse - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce the application to once a day or every other day Inactive Ingredients carbomer , diethylhexyl sodium sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , purified water , sodium hydroxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
