Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Uses for the treatment and prevention of acne pimples Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if • you have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor • avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair or dyed fabrics , including carpet and clothing which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin irritation or redness becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
• In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly closed • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Glycerin , Lactic Acid , Benzyl Alcohol , Mineral Oil , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Glyceryl Stearate , Ceteareth - 20 , Polysorbate 60 , Carbomer , Titanium Dioxide ( CI 77891 ) .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Label Copy [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
