DESCRIPTION RELPAX ® ( eletriptan ) Tablets contain eletriptan hydrobromide , which is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine 1 B / 1 D ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist .
Eletriptan is chemically designated as ( R ) - 3 - [ ( 1 - Methyl - 2 - pyrrolidinyl ) methyl ] - 5 - [ 2 - ( phenylsulfonyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - indole monohydrobromide , and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C22H26N2O2S .
HBr , representing a molecular weight of 463 . 40 .
Eletriptan hydrobromide is a white to light pale colored powder that is readily soluble in water .
Each RELPAX Tablet for oral administration contains 24 . 2 or 48 . 5 mg of eletriptan hydrobromide equivalent to 20 mg or 40 mg of eletriptan , respectively .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose NF , lactose NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , magnesium stearate NF , titanium dioxide USP , hypromellose , triacetin USP and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Eletriptan binds with high affinity to 5 - HT1B , 5 - HT1D and 5 - HT1F receptors , has modest affinity for 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT1E , 5 - HT2B and 5 - HT7 receptors , and little or no affinity for 5 - HT2A , 5 - HT2C , 5 - HT3 , 5 - HT4 , 5 - HT5A and 5 - HT6 receptors .
Eletriptan has no significant affinity or pharmacological activity at adrenergic alpha1 , alpha2 , or beta ; dopaminergic D1 or D2 ; muscarinic ; or opioid receptors .
Two theories have been proposed to explain the efficacy of 5 - HT receptor agonists in migraine .
One theory suggests that activation of 5 - HT1 receptors located on intracranial blood vessels , including those on the arteriovenous anastomoses , leads to vasoconstriction , which is correlated with the relief of migraine headache .
The other hypothesis suggests that activation of 5 - HT1 receptors on sensory nerve endings in the trigeminal system results in the inhibition of pro - inflammatory neuropeptide release .
In the anesthetized dog , eletriptan has been shown to reduce carotid arterial blood flow , with only a small increase in arterial blood pressure at high doses .
While the effect on blood flow was selective for the carotid arterial bed , decreases in coronary artery diameter were observed .
Eletriptan has also been shown to inhibit trigeminal nerve activity in the rat .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Eletriptan is well absorbed after oral administration with peak plasma levels occurring approximately 1 . 5 hours after dosing to healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate to severe migraine the median Tmax is 2 . 0 hours .
The mean absolute bioavailability of eletriptan is approximately 50 % .
The oral pharmacokinetics are slightly more than dose - proportional over the clinical dose range .
The AUC and Cmax of eletriptan are increased by approximately 20 to 30 % following oral administration with a high fat meal .
Distribution The volume of distribution of eletriptan following IV administration is 138 L .
Plasma protein binding is moderate and approximately 85 % .
Metabolism The N - demethylated metabolite of eletriptan is the only known active metabolite .
This metabolite causes vasoconstriction similar to eletriptan in animal models .
Though the half - life of the metabolite is estimated to be about 13 hours , the plasma concentration of the N - demethylated metabolite is 10 – 20 % of parent drug and is unlikely to contribute significantly to the overall effect of the parent compound .
In vitro studies indicate that eletriptan is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P - 450 enzyme CYP3A4 ( see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions ) .
Elimination The terminal elimination half - life of eletriptan is approximately 4 hours .
Mean renal clearance ( CLR ) following oral administration is approximately 3 . 9 L / h .
Non - renal clearance accounts for about 90 % of the total clearance .
Special Populations Age The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are generally unaffected by age .
Eletriptan has been given to only 50 patients over the age of 65 .
Blood pressure was increased to a greater extent in elderly subjects than in young subjects .
The pharmacokinetic disposition of eletriptan in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
There is a statistically significant increased half - life ( from about 4 . 4 hours to 5 . 7 hours ) between elderly ( 65 to 93 years of age ) and younger adult subjects ( 18 to 45 years of age ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gender The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are unaffected by gender .
Race A comparison of pharmacokinetic studies run in western countries with those run in Japan has indicated an approximate 35 % reduction in the exposure of eletriptan in Japanese male volunteers compared to western males .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of two clinical studies indicates no evidence of pharmacokinetic differences between Caucasians and non - Caucasian patients .
Menstrual Cycle In a study of 16 healthy females , the pharmacokinetics of eletriptan remained consistent throughout the phases of the menstrual cycle .
Renal Impairment There was no significant change in clearance observed in subjects with mild , moderate or severe renal impairment , though blood pressure elevations were observed in this population ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic Impairment The effects of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism have not been evaluated .
Subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment demonstrated an increase in both AUC ( 34 % ) and half - life .
The Cmax was increased by 18 % ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions CYP3A4 inhibitors In vitro studies have shown that eletriptan is metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme .
A clinical study demonstrated about a 3 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 6 - fold increase in the AUC of eletriptan when combined with ketoconazole .
The half - life increased from 5 hours to 8 hours and the Tmax increased from 2 . 8 hours to 5 . 4 hours .
Another clinical study demonstrated about a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 4 - fold increase in AUC when erythromycin was co - administered with eletriptan .
It has also been shown that co - administration of verapamil and eletriptan yields about a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 3 - fold increase in AUC of eletriptan , and that co - administration of fluconazole and eletriptan yields about a 1 . 4 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 2 - fold increase in AUC of eletriptan .
Eletriptan should not be used within at least 72 hours of treatment with the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir and nelfinavir .
Eletriptan should not be used within 72 hours with drugs that have demonstrated potent CYP3A4 inhibition and have this potent effect described in the CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS or PRECAUTIONS sections of their labeling ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Propranolol The Cmax and AUC of eletriptan were increased by 10 and 33 % , respectively , in the presence of propranolol .
No interactive increases in blood pressure were observed .
No dosage adjustment appears to be needed for patients taking propranolol ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The effect of eletriptan on other drugs The effect of eletriptan on enzymes other than cytochrome P - 450 has not been investigated .
In vitro human liver microsome studies suggest that eletriptan has little potential to inhibit CYP1A2 , 2C9 , 2E1 and 3A4 at concentrations up to 100µM .
While eletriptan has an effect on CYP2D6 at high concentration , this effect should not interfere with metabolism of other drugs when eletriptan is used at recommended doses .
There is no in vitro or in vivo evidence that clinical doses of eletriptan will induce drug metabolizing enzymes .
Therefore , eletriptan is unlikely to cause clinically important drug interactions mediated by these enzymes .
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of RELPAX in the acute treatment of migraines was evaluated in eight randomized , double - blind placebo - controlled studies .
All eight studies used 40 mg .
Seven studies evaluated an 80 mg dose and two studies included a 20 mg dose .
In all eight studies , randomized patients treated their headaches as outpatients .
Seven studies enrolled adults and one study enrolled adolescents ( age 11 to 17 ) .
Patients treated in the seven adult studies were predominantly female ( 85 % ) and Caucasian ( 94 % ) with a mean age of 40 years ( range 18 to 78 ) .
In all studies , patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain , was assessed up to 2 hours after dosing .
Associated symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , photophobia and phonophobia were also assessed .
Maintenance of response was assessed for up to 24 hours post dose .
In the adult studies , a second dose of RELPAX Tablets or other medication was allowed 2 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for both persistent and recurrent headaches .
The incidence and time to use of these additional treatments were also recorded .
In the seven adult studies , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving RELPAX Tablets at all doses compared to those who received placebo .
The two - hour response rates from these controlled clinical studies are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Percentage of Patients with Headache Response ( Mild or No Headache ) 2 Hours Following Treatment Placebo RELPAX 20 mg RELPAX 40 mg RELPAX 80 mg NA - Not Applicable Study 1 23 . 8 % ( n = 126 ) 54 . 3 % [ 1 ] ( n = 129 ) 65 . 0 % null ( n = 117 ) 77 . 1 % null ( n = 118 ) Study 2 19 . 0 % ( n = 232 ) NA 61 . 6 % null ( n = 430 ) 64 . 6 % null ( n = 446 ) Study 3 21 . 7 % ( n = 276 ) 47 . 3 % null ( n = 273 ) 61 . 9 % null ( n = 281 ) 58 . 6 % null ( n = 290 ) Study 4 39 . 5 % ( n = 86 ) NA 62 . 3 % null ( n = 175 ) 70 . 0 % null ( n = 170 ) Study 5 20 . 6 % ( n = 102 ) NA 53 . 9 % null ( n = 206 ) 67 . 9 % null ( n = 209 ) Study 6 31 . 3 % ( n = 80 ) NA 63 . 9 % null ( n = 169 ) 66 . 9 % null ( n = 160 ) Study 7 29 . 5 % ( n = 122 ) NA 57 . 5 % null ( n = 492 ) NA [ 1 ] p value < 0 . 05 vs placebo Comparisons of the performance of different drugs based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are generally conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response within 2 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * Figure 1 shows the Kaplan - Meier plot of probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with eletriptan .
The plot is based on 7 placebo - controlled , outpatient trials in adults providing evidence of efficacy ( Studies 1 through 7 ) .
Patients not achieving headache response or taking additional treatment prior to 2 hours were censored at 2 hours .
For patients with migraine - associated photophobia , phonophobia , and nausea at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of RELPAX as compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain relief in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of taking a second dose or other medications for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * This Kaplan - Meier plot is based on data obtained in 7 placebo - controlled trials in adults ( Studies 1 through 7 ) .
Patients were instructed to take a second dose of study medication as follows : a ) in the event of no response at 2 hours ( studies 2 and 4 – 7 ) or at 4 hours ( study 3 ) ; b ) in the event of headache recurrence within 24 hours ( studies 2 – 7 ) .
Patients not using additional treatments were censored at 24 hours .
The plot includes both patients who had headache response at 2 hours and those who had no response to the initial dose .
It should be noted that the protocols did not allow remedication within 2 hours post dose .
The efficacy of RELPAX was unaffected by the duration of attack ; gender or age of the patient ; relationship to menses ; or concomitant use of estrogen replacement therapy / oral contraceptives or frequently used migraine prophylactic drugs .
In a single study in adolescents ( n = 274 ) , there were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups .
The headache response rate at 2 hours was 57 % for both RELPAX 40 mg Tablets and placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE RELPAX is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults .
RELPAX is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of RELPAX Tablets have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
CONTRAINDICATIONS RELPAX Tablets should not be given to patients with ischemic heart disease ( e . g . , angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) or to patients who have symptoms , or findings consistent with ischemic heart disease , coronary artery vasospasm , including Prinzmetal ' s variant angina , or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease ( see WARNINGS ) .
RELPAX Tablets should not be given to patients with cerebrovascular syndromes including ( but not limited to ) strokes of any type as well as transient ischemic attacks ( see WARNINGS ) .
RELPAX Tablets should not be given to patients with peripheral vascular disease including ( but not limited to ) ischemic bowel disease ( see WARNINGS ) .
Because RELPAX Tablets may increase blood pressure , it should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see WARNINGS ) .
RELPAX Tablets should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
RELPAX Tablets should not be used within 24 hours of treatment with another 5 - HT1 agonist , an ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medication such as dihydroergotamine ( DHE ) or methysergide .
RELPAX Tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to eletriptan or any of its inactive ingredients .
RELPAX Tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
WARNINGS RELPAX Tablets should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors Eletriptan should not be used within at least 72 hours of treatment with the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , and nelfinavir .
Eletriptan should not be used within 72 hours with drugs that have demonstrated potent CYP3A4 inhibition and have this potent effect described in the CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS or PRECAUTIONS sections of their labeling ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In a coronary angiographic study of rapidly infused intravenous eletriptan to concentrations exceeding those achieved with 80 mg oral eletriptan in the presence of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors , a small dose - related decrease in coronary artery diameter similar to that seen with a 6 mg subcutaneous dose of sumatriptan was observed .
Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Cardiac Events Because of the potential of 5 - HT1 agonists to cause coronary vasospasm , eletriptan should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease ( CAD ) ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is strongly recommended that eletriptan not be given to patients in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ' s medical history , electrocardiographic , or other investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , eletriptan should not be administered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of eletriptan take place in the setting of a physician ' s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received eletriptan .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following administration of RELPAX Tablets , in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of 5 - HT1 agonists including RELPAX Tablets , and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use RELPAX Tablets .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to eletriptan .
Cardiac Events and Fatalities Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm , and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5 - HT1 agonists including RELPAX .
Considering the extent of use of 5 - HT1 agonists in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
Premarketing experience with eletriptan among the 7 , 143 unique individuals who received eletriptan during premarketing clinical trials : In a clinical pharmacology study , in subjects undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography , a subject with a history of angina , hypertension and hypercholesterolemia , receiving intravenous eletriptan ( Cmax of 127 ng / mL equivalent to 60 mg oral eletriptan ) , reported chest tightness and experienced angiographically documented coronary vasospasm with no ECG changes of ischemia .
There was also one report of atrial fibrillation in a patient with a past history of atrial fibrillation .
Postmarketing experience with eletriptan : Serious cardiovascular events , some resulting in death , have been reported in association with the use of RELPAX .
In very rare cases , these events have occurred in the absence of known cardiovascular diseases .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to determine definitively if the cases were actually caused by eletriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases .
Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities Associated With 5 - HT1 Agonists Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5 - HT1 agonists , and some have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , stroke , hemorrhage , and transient ischemic attack ) .
Other Vasospasm - Related Events 5 - HT1 agonists may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm .
Both peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5 - HT1 agonists .
Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including Relpax treatment , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
If concomitant treatment with Relpax and an SSRI ( e . g . , fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , citalopram , escitalopram ) or SNRI ( e . g . , venlafaxine , duloxetine ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
( See PRECAUTIONS — DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure , including hypertensive crisis , has been reported on rare occasions in patients receiving 5 - HT1 agonists with and without a history of hypertension .
In clinical pharmacology studies , oral eletriptan ( at doses of 60 mg or more ) was shown to cause small , transient dose - related increases in blood pressure , predominantly diastolic , consistent with its mechanism of action and with other 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists .
The effect was more pronounced in renally impaired and elderly subjects .
A single patient with hepatic cirrhosis received eletriptan 80 mg and experienced a blood pressure of 220 / 96 mm Hg five hours after dosing .
The treatment - related event persisted for seven hours .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
An 18 % increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure was seen following dosing with another 5 - HT1 agonist in a study evaluating subjects undergoing cardiac catheterization .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other 5 - HT1 agonists , sensations of tightness , pain , pressure and heaviness have been reported after treatment with eletriptan in the precordium , throat , and jaw .
Events that are localized to the chest , throat , neck and jaw have not been associated with arrhythmias or ischemic ECG changes in clinical trials ; in a clinical pharmacology study of subjects undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography , one subject with a history of angina , hypertension and hypercholesterolemia , receiving intravenous eletriptan , reported chest tightness and experienced angiographically documented coronary vasospasm with no ECG changes of ischemia .
Because 5 - HT1 agonists may cause coronary artery vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following dosing should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal ' s variant angina before receiving additional doses of medication , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud ' s syndrome following the use of any 5 - HT1 agonist are candidates for further evaluation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Overuse Excessive use of any anti - migraine medicinal product can lead to daily chronic headaches .
Overuse of all triptans has been reported primarily in patients with chronic daily headache .
Hepatically Impaired Patients The effects of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism was not evaluated .
Subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment demonstrated an increase in both AUC ( 34 % ) and half - life .
The Cmax was increased by 18 % .
Eletriptan should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
No dose adjustment is necessary in mild to moderate impairment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Binding to Melanin - Containing Tissues In rats treated with a single intravenous ( 3 mg / kg ) dose of radio - labeled eletriptan , elimination of radioactivity from the retina was prolonged , suggesting that eletriptan and / or its metabolites may bind to the melanin of the eye .
Because there could be accumulation in melanin - rich tissues over time , this raises the possibility that eletriptan could cause toxicity in these tissues after extended use .
Although no systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function was undertaken in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring are offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long - term ophthalmologic effects .
Corneal Opacities Transient corneal opacities were seen in dogs receiving oral eletriptan at 5 mg / kg and above .
They were observed during the first week of treatment , but were not present thereafter despite continued treatment .
Exposure at the no - effect dose level of 2 . 5 mg / kg was approximately equal to that achieved in humans at the maximum recommended daily dose .
Information for Patients See PATIENT INFORMATION at the end of this labeling for the text of the separate leaflet provided for patients .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of RELPAX or other triptans , especially during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended .
Drug Interactions Ergot - containing drugs Ergot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine [ DHE ] or methysergide ) and eletriptan within 24 hours of each other is not recommended ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors Eletriptan is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 ( see WARNINGS regarding use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ) .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Eletriptan is not a substrate for monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) enzymes ; therefore , there is no expectation of an interaction between eletriptan and MAO inhibitors .
Propranolol The Cmax and AUC of eletriptan were increased by 10 and 33 % respectively in the presence of propranolol .
No interactive increases in blood pressure were observed .
No dosage adjustment appears to be needed for patients taking propranolol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of life - threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) and triptans ( See WARNINGS ) .
Other 5 - HT1 agonists Concomitant use of other 5 - HT1 agonists within 24 hours of RELPAX treatment is not recommended ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions RELPAX Tablets are not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis Lifetime carcinogenicity studies , 104 weeks in duration , were carried out in mice and rats by administering eletriptan in the diet .
In rats , the incidence of testicular interstitial cell adenomas was increased at the high dose of 75 mg / kg / day .
The estimated exposure ( AUC ) to parent drug at that dose was approximately 6 times that achieved in humans receiving the maximum recommended daily dose ( MRDD ) of 80 mg , and at the no - effect dose of 15 mg / kg / day it was approximately 2 times the human exposure at the MRDD .
In mice , the incidence of hepatocellular adenomas was increased at the high dose of 400 mg / kg / day .
The exposure to parent drug ( AUC ) at that dose was approximately 18 times that achieved in humans receiving the MRDD , and the AUC at the no - effect dose of 90 mg / kg / day was approximately 7 times the human exposure at the MRDD .
Mutagenesis Eletriptan was not mutagenic in bacterial or mammalian cell assays in vitro , testing negative in the Ames reverse mutation test and the hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( HGPRT ) mutation test in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
It was not clastogenic in two in vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
Results were equivocal in in vitro human lymphocyte clastogenicity tests , in which the incidence of polyploidy was increased in the absence of metabolic activation ( - S9 conditions ) , but not in the presence of metabolic activation .
Impairment of Fertility In a rat fertility and early embryonic development study , doses tested were 50 , 100 and 200 mg / kg / day , resulting in systemic exposures to parent drug in rats , based on AUC , that were 4 , 8 and 16 times MRDD , respectively , in males and 7 , 14 and 28 times MRDD , respectively , in females .
There was a prolongation of the estrous cycle at the 200 mg / kg / day dose due to an increase in duration of estrus , based on vaginal smears .
There were also dose - related , statistically significant decreases in mean numbers of corpora lutea per dam at all 3 doses , resulting in decreases in mean numbers of implants and viable fetuses per dam .
This suggests a partial inhibition of ovulation by eletriptan .
There was no effect on fertility of males and no other effect on fertility of females .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral administration of eletriptan was associated with developmental toxicity ( decreased fetal and pup weights and an increased incidence of fetal structural abnormalities ) .
Effects on fetal and pup weights were observed at doses that were , on a mg / m2 basis , 6 to 12 times greater than the clinical maximum recommended daily dose ( MRDD ) of 80 mg .
The increase in structural alterations occurred in the rat and rabbit at doses that , on a mg / m2 basis , were 12 times greater than ( rat ) and approximately equal to ( rabbit ) the MRDD .
When pregnant rats were administered eletriptan during the period of organogenesis at doses of 10 , 30 or 100 mg / kg / day , fetal weights were decreased and the incidences of vertebral and sternebral variations were increased at 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 times the MRDD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The 100 mg / kg dose was also maternally toxic , as evidenced by decreased maternal body weight gain during gestation .
The no - effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats exposed during organogenesis was 30 mg / kg , which is approximately 4 times the MRDD on a mg / m2 basis .
When doses of 5 , 10 or 50 mg / kg / day were given to New Zealand White rabbits throughout organogenesis , fetal weights were decreased at 50 mg / kg , which is approximately 12 times the MRDD on a mg / m2 basis .
The incidences of fused sternebrae and vena cava deviations were increased in all treated groups .
Maternal toxicity was not produced at any dose .
A no - effect dose for developmental toxicity in rabbits exposed during organogenesis was not established , and the 5 mg / kg dose is approximately equal to the MRDD on a mg / m2 basis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women ; therefore , eletriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Eletriptan is excreted in human breast milk .
In one study of 8 women given a single dose of 80 mg , the mean total amount of eletriptan in breast milk over 24 hours in this group was approximately 0 . 02 % of the administered dose .
The ratio of eletriptan mean concentration in breast milk to plasma was 1 : 4 , but there was great variability .
The resulting eletriptan concentration - time profile was similar to that seen in the plasma over 24 hours , with very low concentrations of drug ( mean 1 . 7 ng / mL ) still present in the milk 18 – 24 hours post dose .
The N - desmethyl active metabolite was not measured in the breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when RELPAX is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of RELPAX Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established ; therefore , RELPAX is not recommended for use in patients under 18 years of age .
The efficacy of RELPAX Tablets ( 40 mg ) in patients 11 – 17 was not established in a randomized , placebo - controlled trial of 274 adolescent migraineurs ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Adverse events observed were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
Postmarketing experience with other triptans includes a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced clinically serious adverse events that are similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
Long - term safety of eletriptan was studied in 76 adolescent patients who received treatment for up to one year .
A similar profile of adverse events to that of adults was observed .
The long - term safety of eletriptan in pediatric patients has not been established .
Geriatric Use Eletriptan has been given to only 50 patients over the age of 65 .
Blood pressure was increased to a greater extent in elderly subjects than in young subjects .
The pharmacokinetic disposition of eletriptan in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
In clinical trials , there were no apparent differences in efficacy or the incidence of adverse events between patients under 65 years of age and those 65 and above ( n = 50 ) .
There is a statistically significantly increased half - life ( from about 4 . 4 hours to 5 . 7 hours ) between elderly ( 65 to 93 years of age ) and younger adult subjects ( 18 to 45 years of age ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events , including some that have been fatal , have occurred following the use of 5 - HT1 agonists including RELPAX .
These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials Among 4 , 597 patients who treated the first migraine headache with RELPAX in short - term placebo - controlled trials , the most common adverse events reported with treatment with RELPAX were asthenia , nausea , dizziness , and somnolence .
These events appear to be dose - related .
In long - term open - label studies where patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks for up to 1 year , 128 ( 8 . 3 % ) out of 1 , 544 patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events .
Table 2 lists adverse events that occurred in the subset of 5 , 125 migraineurs who received eletriptan doses of 20 mg , 40 mg and 80 mg or placebo in worldwide placebo - controlled clinical trials .
The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population .
In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials , those frequency estimates may not apply , as the conditions of use , reporting behavior , and the kinds of patients treated may differ .
Only adverse events that were more frequent in a RELPAX treatment group compared to the placebo group with an incidence greater than or equal to 2 % are included in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Experience Incidence in Placebo - Controlled Migraine Clinical Trials : Events Reported by ≥ 2 % Patients Treated with RELPAX and More Than PlaceboAdverse Event Type Placebo ( n = 988 ) RELPAX 20 mg ( n = 431 ) RELPAX 40 mg ( n = 1774 ) RELPAX 80 mg ( n = 1932 ) ATYPICAL SENSATIONS Paresthesia 2 % 3 % 3 % 4 % Flushing / feeling of warmth 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 % PAIN AND PRESSURE SENSATIONS Chest – tightness / pain / pressure 1 % 1 % 2 % 4 % Abdominal – pain / discomfort / stomach pain / cramps / pressure 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % DIGESTIVE Dry mouth 2 % 2 % 3 % 4 % Dyspepsia 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Dysphagia – throat tightness / difficulty swallowing 0 . 2 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Nausea 5 % 4 % 5 % 8 % NEUROLOGICAL Dizziness 3 % 3 % 6 % 7 % Somnolence 4 % 3 % 6 % 7 % Headache 3 % 4 % 3 % 4 % OTHER Asthenia 3 % 4 % 5 % 10 % RELPAX is generally well tolerated .
Across all doses , most adverse reactions were mild and transient .
The frequency of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 2 doses of RELPAX were taken within 24 hours .
The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender , age , or race of the patients .
Adverse event frequencies were also unchanged by concomitant use of drugs commonly taken for migraine prophylaxis ( e . g . , SSRIs , beta blockers , calcium channel blockers , tricyclic antidepressants ) , estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives .
Other Events Observed in Association With the Administration of RELPAX Tablets In the paragraphs that follow , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical events are presented .
Because the reports include events observed in open studies , the role of RELPAX Tablets in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Furthermore , variability associated with adverse event reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse events , etc . , limit the value of the quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients reporting an event divided by the total number of patients ( N = 4 , 719 ) exposed to RELPAX .
All reported events are included except those already listed in Table 2 , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients , infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1000 patients .
General : Frequent were back pain , chills and pain .
Infrequent were face edema and malaise .
Rare were abdomen enlarged , abscess , accidental injury , allergic reaction , fever , flu syndrome , halitosis , hernia , hypothermia , lab test abnormal , moniliasis , rheumatoid arthritis and shock .
Cardiovascular : Frequent was palpitation .
Infrequent were hypertension , migraine , peripheral vascular disorder and tachycardia .
Rare were angina pectoris , arrhythmia , atrial fibrillation , AV block , bradycardia , hypotension , syncope , thrombophlebitis , cerebrovascular disorder , vasospasm and ventricular arrhythmia .
Digestive : Infrequent were anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , eructation , esophagitis , flatulence , gastritis , gastrointestinal disorder , glossitis , increased salivation and liver function tests abnormal .
Rare were gingivitis , hematemesis , increased appetite , rectal disorder , stomatitis , tongue disorder , tongue edema and tooth disorder .
Endocrine : Rare were goiter , thyroid adenoma and thyroiditis .
Hemic and Lymphatic : Rare were anemia , cyanosis , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , monocytosis and purpura .
Immune System Disorders : Allergic reactions , some of which may be serious , including angioedema .
Metabolic : Infrequent were creatine phosphokinase increased , edema , peripheral edema and thirst .
Rare were alkaline phosphatase increased , bilirubinemia , hyperglycemia , weight gain and weight loss .
Musculoskeletal : Infrequent were arthralgia , arthritis , arthrosis , bone pain , myalgia and myasthenia .
Rare were bone neoplasm , joint disorder , myopathy and tenosynovitis .
Neurological : Frequent were hypertonia , hypesthesia and vertigo .
Infrequent were abnormal dreams , agitation , anxiety , apathy , ataxia , confusion , depersonalization , depression , emotional lability , euphoria , hyperesthesia , hyperkinesia , incoordination , insomnia , nervousness , speech disorder , stupor , thinking abnormal and tremor .
Rare were abnormal gait , amnesia , aphasia , catatonic reaction , dementia , diplopia , dystonia , hallucinations , hemiplegia , hyperalgesia , hypokinesia , hysteria , manic reaction , neuropathy , neurosis , oculogyric crisis , paralysis , psychotic depression , sleep disorder and twitching .
Respiratory : Frequent was pharyngitis .
Infrequent were asthma , dyspnea , respiratory disorder , respiratory tract infection , rhinitis , voice alteration and yawn .
Rare were bronchitis , choking sensation , cough increased , epistaxis , hiccup , hyperventilation , laryngitis , sinusitis and sputum increased .
Skin and Appendages : Frequent was sweating .
Infrequent were pruritus , rash and skin disorder .
Rare were alopecia , dry skin , eczema , exfoliative dermatitis , maculopapular rash , psoriasis , skin discoloration , skin hypertrophy and urticaria .
Special Senses : Infrequent was abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , ear pain , eye pain , lacrimation disorder , photophobia , taste perversion and tinnitus .
Rare were abnormality of accommodation , dry eyes , ear disorder , eye hemorrhage , otitis media , parosmia and ptosis .
Urogenital : Infrequent were impotence , polyuria , urinary frequency and urinary tract disorder .
Rare were breast pain , kidney pain , leukorrhea , menorrhagia , menstrual disorder and vaginitis .
Other Events Observed During Post - Marketing Use The following adverse reaction ( s ) have been identified during postapproval use of RELPAX .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Neurological : seizure Digestive : vomiting DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Although the abuse potential of RELPAX has not been assessed , no abuse of , tolerance to , withdrawal from , or drug - seeking behavior was observed in patients who received RELPAX in clinical trials or their extensions .
The 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , as a class , have not been associated with drug abuse .
OVERDOSAGE No significant overdoses in premarketing clinical trials have been reported .
Volunteers ( N = 21 ) have received single doses of 120 mg without significant adverse effects .
Daily doses of 160 mg were commonly employed in Phase III trials .
Based on the pharmacology of the 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , hypertension or other more serious cardiovascular symptoms could occur on overdose .
The elimination half - life of eletriptan is about 4 hours ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) and therefore monitoring of patients after overdose with eletriptan should continue for at least 20 hours , or longer should symptoms or signs persist .
There is no specific antidote to eletriptan .
In cases of severe intoxication , intensive care procedures are recommended , including establishing and maintaining a patent airway , ensuring adequate oxygenation and ventilation , and monitoring and support of the cardiovascular system .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentration of eletriptan .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In controlled clinical trials , single doses of 20 mg and 40 mg were effective for the acute treatment of migraine in adults .
A greater proportion of patients had a response following a 40 mg dose than following a 20 mg dose ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Individuals may vary in response to doses of RELPAX Tablets .
The choice of dose should therefore be made on an individual basis .
An 80 mg dose , although also effective , was associated with an increased incidence of adverse events .
Therefore , the maximum recommended single dose is 40 mg .
If after the initial dose , headache improves but then returns , a repeat dose may be beneficial .
If a second dose is required , it should be taken at least 2 hours after the initial dose .
If the initial dose is ineffective , controlled clinical trials have not shown a benefit of a second dose to treat the same attack .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 80 mg .
The safety of treating an average of more than 3 headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors Eletriptan is metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme .
Eletriptan should not be used within at least 72 hours of treatment with the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir and nelfinavir .
Eletriptan should not be used within 72 hours with drugs that have demonstrated potent CYP3A4 inhibition and have this potent effect described in the CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS or PRECAUTIONS sections of their labeling ( see WARNINGS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions ) .
Hepatic Impairment The drug should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment since the effect of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism was not evaluated .
No dose adjustment is necessary in mild to moderate impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED RELPAX 40 mg eletriptan ( base ) as the hydrobromide , are orange , round , convex shaped , film - coated tablets with debossing - REP40 and Pfizer .
They are supplied as follows : RELPAX 40 mg - NDC # 16590 - 201 - 06 Relabeling by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0076 - 16 . 0 January 2012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT SUMMARY OF INFORMATION RELPAX ® ( eletriptan hydrobromide ) Please read this information before you start taking RELPAX and each time you renew your prescription .
Remember , this summary does not take the place of discussions with your doctor .
You and your doctor should discuss RELPAX when you start taking your medication and at regular checkups .
What is RELPAX ?
RELPAX is a prescription medicine used to treat migraine headaches in adults .
RELPAX is not for other types of headaches .
What is a Migraine Headache ?
Migraine is an intense , throbbing headache .
You may have pain on one or both sides of your head .
You may have nausea and vomiting , and be sensitive to light and noise .
The pain and symptoms of a migraine headache can be worse than a common headache .
Some women get migraines around the time of their menstrual period .
Some people have visual symptoms before the headache , such as flashing lights or wavy lines , called an aura .
How Does RELPAX Work ?
Treatment with RELPAX reduces swelling of blood vessels surrounding the brain .
This swelling is associated with the headache pain of a migraine attack .
RELPAX blocks the release of substances from nerve endings that cause more pain and other symptoms like nausea , and sensitivity to light and sound .
It is thought that these actions contribute to relief of your symptoms by RELPAX .
Who should not take RELPAX ?
Do not take RELPAX if you : • have uncontrolled high blood pressure .
• have heart disease or a history of heart disease .
• have hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( if you are not sure about this , ask your doctor ) .
• have or had a stroke or problems with your blood circulation .
• have serious liver problems .
• have taken any of the following medicines in the last 24 hours : other " triptans " or triptan combination products such as almotriptan ( Axert ® ) , frovatriptan ( Frova ™ ) , naratriptan ( Amerge ® ) , rizatriptan ( Maxalt ® ) , sumatriptan ( Imitrex ® ) sumatriptan and naproxen sodium , ( Treximet ™ ) , zolmitriptan ( Zomig ® ) ; ergotamines like Bellergal - S ® , Cafergot ® , Ergomar ® , Wigraine ® ; dihydroergotamine like D . H . E . 45 ® or Migranal ® ; or methysergide ( Sansert ® ) .
These medicines have side effects similar to RELPAX .
[ 1 ] • have taken the following medicines within at least 72 hours : ketoconazole ( Nizoral ® ) , itraconazole ( Sporanox ® ) , nefazodone ( Serzone ® ) , troleandomycin ( TAO ® ) , clarithromycin ( Biaxin ® ) , ritonavir ( Norvir ® ) , and nelfinavir ( Viracept ® ) .
These medicines may cause an increase in the amount of RELPAX in the blood .
null • are allergic to RELPAX or any of its ingredients .
The active ingredient is eletriptan .
The inactive ingredients are listed at the end of this leaflet .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take or plan to take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , supplements , and herbal remedies .
Your doctor will decide if you can take RELPAX with your other medicines .
Some medicines used in treating depression such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) may cause a condition called serotonin syndrome especially during combined use with certain migraine medications .
Your doctor needs to know if you are taking any of these medicines , when taking Relpax .
• selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , two types of drugs for depression or other disorders .
Common SSRIs are CELEXA ® ( citalopram HBr ) , LEXAPRO ® ( escitalopram oxalate ) , PAXIL ® ( paroxetine ) , PROZAC ® / SARAFEM ® ( fluoxetine ) , SYMBYAX ® ( olanzapine / fluoxetine ) , ZOLOFT ® ( sertraline ) , and fluvoxamine .
Common SNRIs are CYMBALTA ® ( duloxetine ) and EFFEXOR ® ( venlafaxine ) .
Tell your doctor if you know that you have any of the following : risk factors for heart disease like high cholesterol , diabetes , smoking , obesity , menopause , or a family history of heart disease or stroke .
How should I take RELPAX ?
RELPAX comes in 20 mg and 40 mg tablets .
When you have a migraine headache , take your medicine as directed by your doctor .
• Take one RELPAX Tablet as soon as you feel a migraine coming on .
• If your headache improves and then comes back after 2 hours , you can take a second tablet .
• If the first tablet did not help your headache at all , do not take a second tablet without talking with your doctor .
• Do not take more than two RELPAX Tablets in any 24 - hour period .
What are the possible side effects of RELPAX ?
RELPAX is generally well tolerated .
As with any medicine , people taking RELPAX may have side effects .
The side effects are usually mild and do not last long .
The most common side effects of RELPAX are : • dizziness • nausea • weakness • tiredness • pain or pressure sensation ( e . g . , in the chest or throat ) In very rare cases , patients taking triptans , such as RELPAX , may experience serious side effects , including heart attacks .
Call your doctor right away if you have : • severe chest pains • shortness of breath Some patients taking triptans may have a reaction called serotonin syndrome particularly during combined use with certain types of antidepressants , SSRIs or SNRIs .
Symptoms may include confusion , hallucinations , fast heart beat , feeling faint , fever , sweating , muscle spasm , difficulty walking and / or diarrhea .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms after taking RELPAX .
Overuse of anti - migraine drugs like RELPAX can lead to daily headaches .
Talk to your doctor if you have persistent non - migraine headaches .
This is not a complete list of side effects .
Talk to your doctor if you develop any symptoms that concern you .
What to do in case of an overdose ?
Call your doctor or poison control center or go to the ER .
General advice about RELPAX Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use RELPAX for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give RELPAX to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about RELPAX .
If you would like more information about RELPAX , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information on RELPAX that is written for health professionals .
You can also call 1 - 866 - 4 RELPAX ( 1 - 866 - 473 - 5729 ) or visit our web site at www . RELPAX . com .
What are the ingredients in RELPAX ?
Active ingredient : eletriptan hydrobromide Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , titanium oxide , hypromellose , triacetin , and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
Store RELPAX Tablets at room temperature 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB 0077 - 9 . 0 January 2012 [ 1 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Pfizer Inc .
Relabeling by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 PACKAGE LABEL - RELPAX 40 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
