Active ingredient Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral anesthetic / analgesic Uses • For the temporary relief of occasional minor throat : • irritation • pain • sore mouth and • sore throat Warnings Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • do not exceed recommended dose • do not use for more than 2 days , Use only as directed • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisoning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 3 years of age and older : • Apply to the affected area ( one spray ) • Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out • Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist .
• Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • Children under 3 years of age : consult a doctor or dentist • Before using the first time , remove the protective neck band and its dust cap from the tip .
To spray , hold bottle straight up and press on the nozzle with index finger without tilting head .
Fully depress pump all the way down with a firm even stroke .
Wipe nozzle dry .
Other information • store at room temperature • check expiration date before using • retain carton for future reference Inactive ingredients FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , saccharin sodium Principal Display Panel Compare to the Active Ingredient in Chloraseptic FAST RELIEF SORE THROAT SPRAY PHENOL / ORAL ANESTHETIC CHERRY FLAVOR Instant - Acting Relieves Sore Throat See New Directions [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
