1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BETOPTIC S ® ( betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 25 % is indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with chronic open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
BETOPTIC S is a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with chronic open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension ( 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of BETOPTIC S in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily .
Shake well before using .
BETOPTIC S may be used alone or in combination with other IOP lowering medications .
Advise patients requiring concomitant topical ophthalmic medications to administer these at least 10 minutes before instilling BETOPTIC S . Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic suspension containing 2 . 5 mg / mL of betaxolol as base ( 0 . 25 % ) in 10 mL and 15 mL bottles .
Ophthalmic suspension : 2 . 5 mg / mL of betaxolol as base ( 0 . 25 % ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS BETOPTIC S is contraindicated in patients with : • sinus bradycardia • greater than a first degree atrioventricular ( AV ) block • cardiogenic shock • patients with overt cardiac failure • hypersensitivity to any component of this product • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ) • Sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular ( AV ) block , overt cardiac failure , and cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Systemic Absorption : Same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may occur with topical ophthalmic administration ( 5 . 1 ) • Cardiac Failure : Discontinue treatment at the first signs of cardiac failure ( 5 . 2 ) • Diabetes Mellitus : Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Administer with caution in diabetic patients subject to hypoglycemia ( 5 . 3 ) • Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) or hyperthyroidism ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Systemic Absorption As with many topically applied ophthalmic drugs , this drug is absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and death due to cardiac failure , have been reported with topical application of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors .
5 . 2 Cardiac Failure BETOPTIC S has been shown to have a minor effect on heart rate and blood pressure in clinical studies .
Caution should be used in treating patients with a history of cardiac failure or heart block .
Treatment with BETOPTIC S should be discontinued at the first signs of cardiac failure .
5 . 3 Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors should be administered with caution in patients subject to hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
5 . 4 Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
5 . 5 Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors have been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
5 . 6 Surgical Anesthesia The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors impair the ability of the heart to respond to beta adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors have experienced protracted , severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
In patients undergoing elective surgery , consider gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists .
5 . 7 Bronchospasm and Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Caution should be exercised in the treatment of glaucoma patients with excessive restriction of pulmonary function .
There have been reports of asthmatic attacks and pulmonary distress during betaxolol treatment .
Although rechallenges of some such patients with ophthalmic betaxolol has not adversely affected pulmonary function test results , the possibility of adverse pulmonary effects in patients sensitive to beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors cannot be ruled out .
5 . 8 Atopy / Anaphylaxis While taking beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
5 . 9 Angle - Closure Glaucoma In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate treatment objective is to reopen the angle .
This may require constricting the pupil .
Betaxolol has little or no effect on the pupil and should not be used alone in the treatment of angle - closure glaucoma .
5 . 10 Vascular Insufficiency Because of potential effects of beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors on blood pressure and pulse , these inhibitors should be used with caution in patients with vascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow or Raynaud ’ s phenomenon develop following initiation of therapy with BETOPTIC S , alternative therapy should be considered .
5 . 11 Bacterial Keratitis Bacterial keratitis may occur with use of multiple dose containers of topical ophthalmic products when these containers are inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
Instruct patients on appropriate instillation techniques [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 12 Choroidal Detachment Choroidal detachment after filtration procedures has been reported with the administration of aqueous suppressant therapy .
5 . 13 Contact Lens Wear The preservative in BETOPTIC S , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of BETOPTIC S but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reaction is transient ocular discomfort ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reaction associated with the use of BETOPTIC S has been transient ocular discomfort .
The following other adverse reactions have been reported in small numbers of patients : Ocular : blurred vision , corneal punctate keratitis , foreign body sensation , photophobia , tearing , itching , dryness of eyes , erythema , inflammation , discharge , ocular pain , decreased visual acuity , and crusty lashes .
Systemic Adverse Reactions Include : Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , heart block , and congestive failure .
Pulmonary : Pulmonary distress characterized by dyspnea , bronchospasm , thickened bronchial secretions , asthma , and respiratory failure .
Central Nervous System : Insomnia , dizziness , vertigo , headaches , depression , lethargy , and increase in signs , and symptoms of myasthenia gravis .
Other : Hives , toxic epidermal necrolysis , hair loss and glossitis .
Perversions of taste and smell have been reported .
In a 3 - month , double - masked , active - controlled , multicenter study in pediatric patients , the adverse reaction profile of BETOPTIC S was comparable to that seen in adult patients .
6 . 2 Additional Potential Adverse Reactions Associated With Betaxolol Additional medical events reported with other formulations of betaxolol include allergic reactions , decreased corneal sensitivity , corneal punctate staining which may appear in dendritic formation , edema , and anisocoria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Oral beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors may have additive effects ( 7 . 1 ) • Catecholamine - depleting drugs may have additive effects ( 7 . 2 ) • Concomitant adrenergic psychotropic drugs may have additive effects ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Oral Beta - Adrenergic Receptor Inhibitors Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor orally and BETOPTIC S should be observed for a potential additive effect either on the IOP or on the known systemic effects of beta blockade .
7 . 2 Catecholamine - Depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or bradycardia , which may result in vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
7 . 3 Concomitant Adrenergic Psychotropic Drugs Betaxolol is an adrenergic receptor inhibitor ; therefore , caution should be exercised in patients using concomitant adrenergic psychotropic drugs .
7 . 4 Calcium Antagonists , Antiarrhythmics and Digitalis The concomitant use of a beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor with calcium antagonists , antiarrhythmics ( including amiodarone ) or digitalis may have additive effects resulting in hypotension and / or marked bradycardia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of BETOPTIC S administration in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
There are limited data with the use of betaxolol eye drops in pregnant women .
Epidemiological studies have not revealed malformative effects but show a risk for intrauterine growth retardation when beta - blockers are administered by the oral route .
In animal reproductive studies , no drug - induced maternal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed at clinically relevant doses ( see Data ) .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , BETOPTIC S should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data In a rat embryo - fetal development ( EFD ) study , oral administration of 4 , 40 , or 400 mg / kg / day betaxolol on gestational days 6 through 18 , the period of organogenesis , resulted in marked embryo - fetal lethality , increased incidence of skeletal and visceral abnormalities , and decreased fetal weights at the maternally toxic dose of 400 mg / kg / day ( 7785 times higher than the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose [ MRHOD ] of 0 . 0083 mg / kg / day , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for maternal or embryo - fetal toxicity was 40 mg / kg / day ( 778 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a rabbit EFD study , oral administration of 1 , 4 , 12 , and 36 mg / kg / day betaxolol on gestational days 6 through 18 , the period of organogenesis , resulted in a marked increase in embryo - fetal lethality at 36 mg / kg / day ( 1400 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No maternal toxicity was reported in this study .
In a perinatal and postnatal development study in rats , oral administration of 4 , 32 , and 256 mg / kg / day betaxolol during late gestation through lactation resulted in a marked decrease in offspring survival within 4 days postpartum at the highest dose ( 4982 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In surviving F1 offspring , growth / development and reproductive function were also affected .
The NOAEL was 32 mg / kg / day ( 623 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study in rats , an oral betaxolol dose of 150 mg / kg / day ( 2920 times higher than the MRHOD , on mg / m2 basis ) administered throughout the entire gestation period and lactation , resulted in maternal and developmental toxicity in F1 offspring , including decreased offspring survival , body weight and growth / development and functional deficits in surviving offspring .
No NOAEL for developmental or maternal toxicity was established in this study .
Oral administration of 4 , 32 , and 256 mg / kg / day betoxolol to rats prior to mating and through late gestation , or until weaning , produced embryo - fetal lethality , neonatal mortality , decreased mean fetal weight , growth / development and functional deficits in surviving offspring at 256 mg / kg / day ( 4982 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
At 32 mg / kg / day ( 623 higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) , decreased mean fetal weight on Gestation Day 20 , and pup weight at birth and on Day 4 postpartum were observed .
At 4 mg / kg / day ( 78 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) , a slight decrease in mean fetal weight was observed on Gestation Day 20 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Beta - blockers are excreted in breast milk following oral administration , having the potential to cause serious undesirable effects in the infant of the nursing mother .
It is not known whether measurable levels of betaxolol would be present in maternal milk following topical ocular administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for BETOPTIC S , and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from BETOPTIC S . 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and IOP lowering effect of BETOPTIC S has been demonstrated in pediatric patients in a 3 month , multicenter , double - masked , active - controlled trial .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage in humans .
The oral LD50 of the drug ranged from 350 to 920 mg / kg in mice and 860 to 1 , 050 mg / kg in rats .
The symptoms which might be expected with an overdose of a systemically administered beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor are bradycardia , hypotension , bronchospasm , and acute cardiac failure .
A topical overdose of BETOPTIC S may be flushed from the eye ( s ) with warm tap water .
If overdose occurs , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
11 DESCRIPTION BETOPTIC S contains betaxolol hydrochloride , a cardioselective beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitor , in a sterile resin suspension formulation .
Betaxolol hydrochloride is a white , crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 343 . 89 g / mol .
The chemical structure is presented below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Empirical Formula : C18H29NO3 • HCl Chemical Name : ( ± ) - 1 - [ p - [ 2 - ( cyclopropylmethoxy ) ethyl ] phenoxy ] - 3 - ( isopropylamino ) - 2 - propanol hydrochloride .
Each mL of BETOPTIC S contains : Active : betaxolol HCl 2 . 8 mg equivalent to 2 . 5 mg of betaxolol base .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : carbomer 934 P , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , mannitol , poly ( styrene - divinyl benzene ) sulfonic acid , and purified water .
BETOPTIC S has pH of approximately 7 . 6 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsmol / kg .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Betaxolol HCl , a cardioselective ( beta - 1 - adrenergic ) receptor inhibitor , does not have significant membrane - stabilizing ( local anesthetic ) activity and is devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic action .
Orally administered beta - adrenergic receptor inhibitors reduce cardiac output in healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists may inhibit the sympathetic stimulatory effect necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
When instilled in the eye , BETOPTIC S has the action of reducing elevated IOP , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Ophthalmic betaxolol has minimal effect on pulmonary and cardiovascular parameters .
Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Betaxolol has the action of reducing elevated as well as normal IOP and the mechanism of ocular hypotensive action appears to be a reduction of aqueous production as demonstrated by tonography and aqueous fluorophotometry .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of action with betaxolol can generally be noted within 30 minutes and the maximum effect can usually be detected 2 hours after topical administration .
A single dose provides a 12 - hour reduction in IOP .
In some patients , the IOP lowering responses to BETOPTIC S may require a few weeks to stabilize .
As with any new medication , careful monitoring of patients is advised .
Ophthalmic betaxolol solution at 1 % ( one drop in each eye ) was compared to placebo in a crossover study challenging nine patients with reactive airway disease .
Betaxolol HCl had no significant effect on pulmonary function as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) , forced vital capacity ( FVC ) , FEV1 / FVC , and was not significantly different from placebo .
The action of isoproterenol , a beta stimulant , administered at the end of the study was not inhibited by ophthalmic betaxolol .
No evidence of cardiovascular beta - adrenergic blockade during exercise was observed with betaxolol in a double - masked , crossover study in 24 normal subjects comparing ophthalmic betaxolol and placebo for effects on blood pressure and heart rate .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In 2 - year carcinogenicity studies , betaxolol HCl demonstrated no carcinogenic effect at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day in mice and 48 mg / kg / day in rats ( 584 and 934 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) .
Mutagenesis In a variety of in vitro and in vivo bacterial and mammalian cell assays , betaxolol HCl was not mutagenic .
Impairment of Fertility Betaxolol did not adversely affect fertility or mating performance of male or female rats at doses up to 256 mg / kg / day ( 4982 times higher than the MRHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In controlled double - masked studies , the magnitude and duration of the ocular hypotensive effect of BETOPTIC S ( betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 25 % and BETOPTIC ( betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % were clinically equivalent .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING BETOPTIC S ( betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) , 0 . 25 % is supplied as follows : 10 mL and 15 mL in plastic ophthalmic dispensers .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
10 mLNDC 0065 - 0246 - 10 15 mLNDC 0065 - 0246 - 15 Storage and Handling Store upright at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Shake well before using .
After opening , BETOPTIC S can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Avoiding Contamination of the Product Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye ( s ) or surrounding structures .
Also instruct patients that ocular solutions , if handled improperly , could become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye ( s ) and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Intercurrent Ocular Conditions Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of the present multi - dose container .
Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy Advise patients requiring concomitant topical ophthalmic medications to administer these at least 10 minutes before instilling BETOPTIC S . Temporary Blurred Vision Vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with BETOPTIC S . Care should be exercised in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Contact Lens Wear The preservative in BETOPTIC S , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Remove contact lenses during instillation of BETOPIC S . Contact lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2021 - 81 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0065 - 0246 - 10 Alcon ® a Novartis company Betoptic S ® ( betaxolol HCl ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 25 % as base 10 mL Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ]
