[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Anti - blemish matte primer SALICYLIC ACID ACNE TREATMENT NON DRYING NON IRRITATING PORE REFINER jouer anti - blemish matte primer SALICYLIC ACID ACNE TREATMENT NON DRYING NON IRRITATING PORE REFINER OIL - FREE - HYPOALLERGENIC - PARABEN FREE - SILICONE FREE oil free - hypoallergenic fragrance free - paraben free silicone free - dermatologist tested 1 mL / 0 . 03 fl .
oz .
This oil free mattifying anti - blemish primer , formulated with Salicylic Acid , penetrates into skin to help treat existing blemishes , prevent development of new acne , and minimize the appearance of pores .
Aloe , Vitamin E , Ginseng & Gingko Biloba Extract help calm redness and reduce inflammation , promoting a shine - free , even complexion Apply a pearl size to clean skin to prime for makeup application .
Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swalled , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Jouer CONNECTIONG BEAUTY & STYLE ( TM ) Distributed by Jouer ( R ) Cosmetics , LLC .
Los Angeles , CA 90024 Made in Canada - Not tested on animals - Nor for Retail Sale www . jouercosmetics . com ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : SALICYLIC ACID 1 % Acne treatment Uses - for the treatment of acne .
- dries and clears acne pimples , acne blemishes and blackheads and allows skin to heal .
- helps prevent new acne pimples , acne blemishes and blackheads from forming .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product - skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at all a time .
- avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions Cleanse skin thoroughly before applying .
Cover the affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times a day .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other information - do not use this product if you have very sensitive skin of if you are sensitive to salicylic acid .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( water / Eau ) , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Cetyl Alcohol , Tapioca Starch , Glycerin , Ceteareth - 20 , Glyceryl Stearate Se , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Water , Opuntia Ficus - indica Stem Extract , Biosaccharide Gum - 1 , Carbomer , Sodium Hydroxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Phenoxyethanol
