1 INDICATION AND USAGE Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp in adults .
• Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is an antifungal indicated for the topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Wet hair and apply approximately 1 teaspoon ( 5 mL ) of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % to the scalp .
Up to 2 teaspoons ( 10 mL ) may be used for long hair .
Lather and leave on hair and scalp for 3 minutes .
A timer may be used .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Rinse off .
Treatment should be repeated twice per week for 4 weeks , with a minimum of 3 days between applications .
If a patient with seborrheic dermatitis shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment with Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
• Apply approximately 1 teaspoon of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % to the scalp twice per week for 4 weeks .
( 2 ) • For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is a shampoo containing 1 % ciclopirox .
Each gram ( equivalent to 0 . 96 mL ) of Ciclopirox Shampoo contains 10 mg ciclopirox in a colorless and translucent shampoo base .
• Shampoo , 1 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • If signs of irritation occur , discontinue use .
( 5 . 1 ) • Avoid contact with eyes .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hair discoloration has been reported with Ciclopirox use .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Local Effects If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or irritation occurs with the use of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Contact of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % with the eyes should be avoided .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
In patients with lighter hair color , hair discoloration has been reported .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most frequently reported adverse reactions are pruritus , burning , and erythema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Taro at 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In 626 subjects treated with Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % twice weekly in the two pivotal clinical trials , the most frequent adverse events were increased itching in 1 % of subjects , and application site reactions , such as burning , erythema , and itching , also in 1 % of subjects .
6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % : hair discoloration and abnormal hair texture , alopecia , irritation and rash .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys .
Ciclopirox or ciclopirox olamine was orally administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 77 , 125 , 80 and 38 . 5 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys , respectively ( approximately 13 , 42 , 54 and 26 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Dermal embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with ciclopirox olamine dissolved in PEG 400 .
Ciclopirox olamine was topically administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 92 mg / kg / day and 77 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in rats and rabbits , respectively ( approximately 31 and 54 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use No clinical trials have been conducted in subjects younger than 16 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials , the safety and tolerability of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % in the population 65 years and older was comparable to that of younger subjects .
Results of the efficacy analysis in those subjects 65 years and older showed effectiveness in 25 of 85 ( 29 % ) subjects treated with Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % , and in 15 of 61 ( 25 % ) subjects treated with the vehicle ; due to the small sample size , a statistically significant difference was not demonstrated .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity to adverse effects in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % contains the synthetic antifungal agent , ciclopirox for topical use .
Each gram ( equivalent to 0 . 96 mL ) of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % contains 10 mg ciclopirox in a shampoo base consisting of disodium laureth sulfosuccinate , laureth - 2 , purified water USP , sodium chloride USP , and sodium laureth sulfate .
Ciclopirox Shampoo is a colorless , translucent solution .
The chemical name for ciclopirox is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , with the empirical formula C12H17NO2 and a molecular weight of 207 . 27 .
The CAS Registry Number is [ 29342 - 05 - 0 ] .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ciclopirox is a hydroxypyridone antifungal agent although the relevance of this property for the indication of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
Ciclopirox acts by chelation of polyvalent cations ( Fe3 + or Al3 + ) , resulting in the inhibition of the metal - dependent enzymes that are responsible for the degradation of peroxides within the fungal cell .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a study in patients with seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , application of 5 mL ciclopirox shampoo 1 % twice weekly for 4 weeks , with an exposure time of 3 minutes per application , resulted in detectable serum concentrations of ciclopirox in 6 out of 18 patients .
The serum concentrations measured throughout the dosing interval on Days 1 and 29 ranged from 10 . 3 ng / mL to 13 . 2 ng / mL .
Total urinary excretion of ciclopirox was less than 0 . 5 % of the administered dose .
12 . 4 Microbiology Ciclopirox is fungicidal in vitro against Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum spp . )
, P . ovale , and P . orbiculare .
The clinical significance of antifungal activity in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility A 104 - week dermal carcinogenicity study in mice was conducted with ciclopirox cream applied at doses up to 1 . 93 % ( 100 mg / kg / day or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
No increase in drug related neoplasms was noted when compared to control .
The following in vitro genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox : evaluation of gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella and E . coli assays ( negative ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells in the presence of supplemental Fe3 + , with and without metabolic activation ( negative ) ; gene mutation assays in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay in A549 human cells ) ( negative ) .
An in vitro cell transformation assay in BALB / c 3T3 cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese hamster bone marrow cytogenetic assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at a dosage of 5000 mg / kg body weight .
A combined oral fertility and embryofetal developmental study was conducted in rats with ciclopirox olamine .
No effect on fertility or reproductive performance was noted at the highest dose tested of 3 . 85 mg / kg / day ciclopirox ( approximately 1 . 3 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , double - blind clinical trials , subjects 16 years and older with seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp applied Ciclopirox Shampoo or its vehicle twice weekly for 4 weeks .
Subjects who were immunocompromised , those with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , women of childbearing potential not using adequate contraception , and pregnant or lactating women were excluded from the clinical trials .
An evaluation of the overall status of the seborrheic dermatitis , the presence and severity of erythema or inflammation , and scaling , was made at week 4 , using a scale of 0 = none , 1 = slight , 2 = mild , 3 = moderate , 4 = pronounced , and 5 = severe .
Effective treatment was defined as achieving a score of 0 ( or a score of 1 if the baseline score was ≥ 3 ) simultaneously for status of the seborrheic dermatitis , erythema or inflammation , and scaling at Week 4 .
Ciclopirox shampoo was shown to be statistically significantly more effective than vehicle in both trials .
Efficacy results for the two trials are presented in Table 1 below .
Table 1 .
Effective Treatment Rates at Week 4 in Trials 1 and 2 Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % Vehicle Study 1 220 / 380 ( 58 % ) 60 / 192 ( 31 % ) Study 2 65 / 250 ( 26 % ) 32 / 249 ( 13 % ) Efficacy for African American subjects was not demonstrated , although only 53 African American subjects were enrolled in the two pivotal trials .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ciclopirox Shampoo , 1 % is colorless and translucent , and is supplied in 120 mL plastic bottles ( NDC 51672 - 1351 - 8 ) .
Discard unused product after initial treatment duration .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) The patient should be instructed to : • Use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % as directed by the physician .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is for external use on the scalp only .
Do not swallow .
• Use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % for seborrheic dermatitis for the full treatment time even though symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 4 weeks .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing ) .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : November , 2015 PPK - 6006 - 2 41 Patient Information Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % Important : For use on the scalp only .
Do not get Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is a prescription medicine used on the scalp to treat adults with a skin condition called seborrheic dermatitis .
It is not known if Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % is safe and effective in children under 16 years of age .
What should I tell my doctor before using Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
Before using Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % , tell your doctor if you : • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not know if Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % passes into your breast milk .
• are taking prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
• Use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Wash your hair using Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % 2 times each week for 4 weeks .
There should be at least 3 days between each time you use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % .
• Use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % for 4 weeks even if your skin condition improves .
• Tell your doctor if your scalp condition is not getting better after you have used Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % for 4 weeks .
• Do not swallow Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % .
• Avoid getting Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % in your eyes .
If Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % gets into your eyes , rinse them well with water .
How should I apply Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
• Wet your hair and apply approximately 1 teaspoon of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % to your scalp .
You may use up to 2 teaspoons of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % if you have long hair .
Lather and leave Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % on your hair and scalp for 3 minutes .
You may use a timer .
• After 3 minutes have passed , rinse your hair and scalp .
What are the possible side effects of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
The most common side effects of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % include : itching , burning , and redness of the scalp .
Tell your doctor if you get any of these symptoms and they become worse or do not go away , or if you get blistering , swelling , or oozing in your scalp .
These are not all the possible side effects of Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % .
For more information , ask your doctor .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
• Store Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away any unused Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % after you finish your treatment .
Keep Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % that is written for health professionals .
For more information about Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % , call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 .
What are the ingredients in Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % ?
Active ingredient : ciclopirox Inactive ingredients : disodium laureth sulfosuccinate , laureth - 2 , purified water USP , sodium chloride USP , and sodium laureth sulfate .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : November , 2015 PPK - 6006 - 2 41 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mL Bottle Carton 120 mL NDC 51672 - 1351 - 8 Ciclopirox Shampoo 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children This package is not child resistant Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
