DESCRIPTION Phendimetrazine tartrate , as the dextro isomer , has the chemical name of ( 2 S , 3 S ) - 3 , 4 - dimethyl - 2 - phenylmorpholine L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phendimetrazine tartrate is a white , odorless crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in water ; sparingly soluble in warm alcohol , insoluble in chloroform , acetone , ether and benzene .
Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 105 mg phendimetrazine tartrate manufactured in a special base designed for prolonged release .
Inactive ingredients : FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , pharmaceutical glaze , povidone , silica gel , sodium lauryl sulfate , corn starch , sucrose , talc and trace amounts of red imprinting ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phendimetrazine tartrate is a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine with pharmacological activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , the amphetamines .
Actions include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as " anorectics " or " anorexigenics " .
It has not been established , however , that the action of such drugs in treating obesity is primarily one of appetite suppression .
Other central nervous system actions or metabolic effects , may be involved , for example .
Adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with anorectic drugs , lose more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet , as determined in relatively short term clinical trials .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an anorectic drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drug prescribed , such as the physician investigator , the population treated , and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured in years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks duration , thus , the total impact of drug - induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically limited .
The active drug , 105 mg of phendimetrazine tartrate in each capsule of this special extended - release dosage form approximates the action of three 35 mg immediate release doses taken at four hour intervals .
The major route of elimination is via the kidneys where most of the drug and metabolites are excreted .
Some of the drug is metabolized to phenmetrazine and also Phendimetrazine - N - oxide .
The average half - life of elimination when studied under controlled conditions is about 3 . 7 hours for both the extended - release and immediate release forms .
The absorption half - life of the drug from the immediate release 35 mg phendimetrazine tablets is appreciably more rapid than the absorption rate of the drug from the extended - release formulation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phendimetrazine tartrate extended - release capsules are indicated in the management of exogenous obesity as a short term adjunct ( a few weeks ) in a regimen of weight reduction based on caloric restriction in patients with an initial body mass index ( BMI ) of greater than or equal to 30 kg / m2 or greater than or equal to 27 kg / m2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) who have not responded to appropriate weight reducing regimen ( diet and / or exercise ) alone .
Below is a chart of Body Mass Index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ' s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ' s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches × 0 . 0254 = meters [ MULTIMEDIA ] The usefulness of agents of this class ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below .
Phendimetrazine tartrate is indicated for use as monotherapy only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , • congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension , pulmonary hypertension ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) • Nursing • Use in combination with other anorectic agents or CNS stimulants • Known hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reactions to sympathomimetics .
WARNINGS Phendimetrazine tartrate should not be used in combination with other anorectic agents , including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations and herbal products .
In a case - control epidemiological study , the use of anorectic agents , including phendimetrazine tartrate , was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension , a rare , but often fatal disorder .
The use of anorectic agents for longer than three months was associated with a 23 - fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension .
Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded .
The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea , or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris , syncope , or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension .
Under these circumstances , phendimetrazine tartrate should be immediately discontinued , and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine has been reported .
Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time , higher than recommended dose , and / or use in combination with other anorectic drugs .
The potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as valvular heart disease and pulmonary hypertension should be assessed carefully against the potential benefit of weight loss .
Baseline cardiac evaluation should be considered to detect preexisting valvular heart diseases or pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of phendimetrazine treatment .
Phendimetrazine tartrate is not recommended in patients with known heart murmur or valvular heart disease .
Echocardiogram during and after treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur .
Tolerance to the anorectic effect of phendimetrazine develops within a few weeks .
When this occurs , its use should be discontinued ; the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded .
Use of phendimetrazine tartrate within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors may result in a hypertensive crisis .
Abrupt cessation of administration following prolonged high dosage results in extreme fatigue and depression .
Because of the effect on the central nervous system , phendimetrazine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Phendimetrazine tartrate is not recommended for patients who used any anorectic agents within the prior year .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution is to be exercised in prescribing phendimetrazine tartrate for patients with even mild hypertension .
Insulin or oral hypoglycemic medication requirements in diabetes mellitus may be altered in association with the use of phendimetrazine and the concomitant dietary regimen .
Phendimetrazine may decrease the hypotensive effect of guanethidine .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with phendimetrazine tartrate sustained release have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X Phendimetrazine tartrate is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant woman and may result in fetal harm .
A minimum weight gain , and no weight loss , is currently recommended for all pregnant women , including those who are already overweight or obese , due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy .
Phendimetrazine tartrate , a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine has pharmacological activity similar to amphetamines ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted in phendimetrazine tartrate .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if phendimetrazine tartrate is excreted in human milk .
Phendimetrazine tartrate , a phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine , has pharmacological activity similar to the amphetamines ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , and other amphetamines are present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phendimetrazine tartrate is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis .
Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phendimetrazine tartrate may result in an adverse drug reaction .
Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs phendimetrazine tartrate may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because pediatric obesity is a chronic condition requiring long - term treatment , the use of phendimetrazine tartrate ER approved for short - term therapy , is not recommended in patients less that 17 years of age .
Renal Impairment Phendimetrazine tartrate extended - release capsules were not studied in patients with renal impairment .
As phendimetrazine tartrate is excreted in urine , exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering phendimetrazine tartrate to patients with renal impairment .
Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The major route of elimination is via the kidney where most of the drug and metabolites are excreted .
The risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : - Primary pulmonary hypertension ( see Warnings ) - Valvular heart disease ( see Warnings ) - Effect on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks ( see Warnings ) - Withdrawal effects following prolonged high dosage administration ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ) The following adverse reactions to phendimetrazine have been identified : Cardiovascular Primary pulmonary hypertension and / or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , palpitation , tachycardia , elevated blood pressure , ischemic events .
Central Nervous System Overstimulation , restlessness , insomnia , agitation , flushing , tremor , sweating , dizziness , headache , psychotic state , blurring of vision .
Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth , nausea , stomach pain , diarrhea , constipation , Genitourinary Urinary frequency , dysuria , changes in libido .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Phendimetrazine tartrate extended - release capsules are defined by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule III controlled substance .
Abuse Phendimetrazine tartrate is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused , and the possibility of abuse of phendimetrazine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
Dependence Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage to many times that recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
OVERDOSAGE The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Acute Overdosage Acute overdosage with phendimetrazine tartrate may manifest itself by the following signs and symptoms : unusual restlessness , confusion , belligerence , hallucinations , and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include tachycardia , arrhythmias , hypertension , or hypotension and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal cramps .
Poisoning may result in convulsions , coma , and death .
The management of acute overdosage is largely symptomatic .
It includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
If hypertension is marked , the use of a nitrate or rapid - acting alpha receptor - blocking agent should be considered .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations for its use .
Chronic Intoxication Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include sever dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most server manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Extended - release capsule Since the product is an extended - release dosage form , limit to one extended - release capsule ( 105 mg phendimetrazine tartrate ) in the morning ( 30 to 60 minutes before morning meal ) .
Each extended - release capsule contains 105 mg phendimetrazine tartrate in a Brown / Clear capsule imprinted E 5254 .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC 12634 - 910 - 00 Bottles of 10 NDC 12634 - 910 - 01 Bottles of 100 NDC 12634 - 910 - 09 Bottles of 35 NDC 12634 - 910 - 40 Bottles of 40 NDC 12634 - 910 - 42 Bottles of 42 NDC 12634 - 910 - 45 Bottles of 45 NDC 12634 - 910 - 50 Bottles of 50 NDC 12634 - 910 - 52 Blister Pack of 12 NDC 12634 - 910 - 54 Blister Pack of 14 NDC 12634 - 910 - 57 Blister Pack of 20 NDC 12634 - 910 - 58 Blister Pack of 28 NDC 12634 - 910 - 59 Blister Pack of 30 NDC 12634 - 910 - 60 Bottles of 60 NDC 12634 - 910 - 61 Blister Pack of 10 NDC 12634 - 910 - 63 Blister Pack of 3 NDC 12634 - 910 - 66 Blister Pack of 6 NDC 12634 - 910 - 67 Blister Pack of 7 NDC 12634 - 910 - 69 Blister Pack of 9 NDC 12634 - 910 - 71 Bottles of 30 NDC 12634 - 910 - 74 Bottles of 24 NDC 12634 - 910 - 78 Bottles of 28 NDC 12634 - 910 - 79 Bottles of 25 NDC 12634 - 910 - 80 Bottles of 20 NDC 12634 - 910 - 81 Bottles of 21 NDC 12634 - 910 - 82 Bottles of 12 NDC 12634 - 910 - 84 Bottles of 14 NDC 12634 - 910 - 85 Bottles of 15 NDC 12634 - 910 - 90 Bottles of 90 NDC 12634 - 910 - 91 Blister Pack of 1 NDC 12634 - 910 - 92 Bottles of 2 NDC 12634 - 910 - 93 Bottles of 3 NDC 12634 - 910 - 94 Bottles of 4 NDC 12634 - 910 - 95 Bottles of 5 NDC 12634 - 910 - 96 Bottles of 6 NDC 12634 - 910 - 97 Bottles of 7 NDC 12634 - 910 - 98 Bottles of 8 NDC 12634 - 910 - 99 Bottles of 9 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
DISPENSE IN A TIGHT CONTAINER AS DEFINED IN THE USP .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch Manufactured by Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Repackaged and Distributed by : Apotheca Inc .
Phoenix , AZ 85006 Principal Display Panel NDC 12634 - 910 - 71 Phendimetrazine Tartrate Extended - Release Capsules 105 mg Brown / Clear Rx Only 30 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
