Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especiallyu from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , ethylhexyl palmitate , sorbitol , polyamide - 8 , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , caprylic / capric triglyceride , triethanolamine , fragrance , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , oleth - 3 , disodium EDTA disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Coppertone LLC , owner of the registered trademark Coppertone Sport Oxybenzone & Octinoxate free May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Adverse reactions section Questions 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www , meijer . com Compare to Coppertone Sport Sunscreen SPF 30 meijer SPF 30 sport sunscreen lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 30 UVA / UVB PROTECTION Water Resistant ( 80 min ) Wo n't run when you start to sweat REEF FRIENDLY 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
