( indocyanine green for injection , USP ) Sterile Rx only DESCRIPTION IC ‑ GREEN ™ is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
It is packaged with Aqueous Solvent consisting of Sterile Water for Injection used to dissolve the indocyanine green .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ is to be administered intravenously .
Indocyanine green is a water soluble , tricarbocyanine dye with a peak spectral absorption at 800 nm .
The chemical name for Indocyanine Green is 1 H - Benz [ e ] indolium , 2 - [ 7 - [ 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - 2 H - benz [ e ] indol - 2 - ylidene ] - 1 , 3 , 5 - heptatrienyl ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - , hydroxide , inner salt , sodium salt .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ has a pH of approximately 6 . 5 when reconstituted .
Each vial of IC ‑ GREEN ™ contains 25 mg of indocyanine green as a sterile lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following intravenous injection , IC ‑ GREEN ™ is rapidly bound to plasma protein , of which albumin is the principle carrier ( 95 % ) .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ undergoes no significant extrahepatic or enterohepatic circulation ; simultaneous arterial and venous blood estimations have shown negligible renal , peripheral , lung or cerebro - spinal uptake of the dye .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile .
After biliary obstruction , the dye appears in the hepatic lymph , independently of the bile , suggesting that the biliary mucosa is sufficiently intact to prevent diffusion of the dye , though allowing diffusion of bilirubin .
These characteristics make IC ‑ GREEN ™ a helpful index of hepatic function .
The plasma fractional disappearance rate at the recommended 0 . 5 mg / kg dose has been reported to be significantly greater in women than in men , although there was no significant difference in the calculated value for clearance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For determining cardiac output , hepatic function and liver blood flow , and for ophthalmic angiography .
CONTRAINDICATIONS IC ‑ GREEN ™ contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides .
WARNINGS Anaphylactic deaths have been reported following IC ‑ GREEN ™ administration during cardiac catheterization .
PRECAUTIONS General : IC ‑ GREEN ™ Powder and Solution : IC ‑ GREEN ™ is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
However , the dye is stable in plasma and whole blood so that samples obtained in discontinuous sampling techniques may be read hours later .
Sterile techniques should be used in handling the dye solution as well as in the performance of the dilution curves .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ ( indocyanine green for injection ) powder may cling to the vial or lump together because it is freeze - dried in the vials .
Drug Interactions : Heparin preparations containing sodium bisulfite reduce the absorption peak of IC ‑ GREEN ™ in blood and , therefore , should not be used as an anticoagulant for the collection of samples for analysis .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of IC ‑ GREEN ™ .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnanacy Category C : Animal Reproduction studies have not been conducted with IC ‑ GREEN ™ .
It is also not known whether IC ‑ GREEN ™ can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when IC ‑ GREEN ™ is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactic or urticarial reactions have been reported in patients with or without history of allergy to iodides .
If such reactions occur , treatment with the appropriate agents , e . g . , epinephrine , antihistamines , and corticosteroids should be administered .
OVERDOSAGE There are no data available describing the signs , symptoms , or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage .
The LD50 after I . V . administration ranges between 60 and 80 mg / kg in mice , 50 and 70 mg / kg in rats and 50 and 80 mg / kg in rabbits .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INDICATOR ‑ DILUTION STUDIES : IC ‑ GREEN ™ permits recording of the indicator ‑ dilution curves for both diagnostic and research purpose independently of fluctuations in oxygen saturation .
In the performance of dye dilution curves , a known amount of dye is usually injected as a single bolus as rapidly as possible via a cardiac catheter into selected sites in the vascular system .
A recording instrument ( oximeter or densitometer ) is attached to a needle or catheter for sampling of the dye - blood mixture from a systemic arterial sampling site .
Under sterile conditions , the IC ‑ GREEN ™ powder should be dissolved with the Aqueous Solvent provided for this product , and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
The amount of solvent to be used can be calculated from the dosage form which follows .
It is recommended that the syringe used for injection of the dye be rinsed with this diluent .
Isotonic saline should be used to flush the residual dye from the cardiac catheter into the circulation so as to avoid hemolysis .
With the exception of the rinsing of the dye injection syringe , saline is used in all other parts of the catheterization procedure .
This matter of rinsing the dye syringe with distilled water may not be critical , since it is known that an amount of sodium chloride sufficient to make an isotonic solution may be added to dye that has first been dissolved in distilled water .
This procedure has been used for constant - rate injection techniques without precipitation of the dye .
The usual doses of IC ‑ GREEN ™ which have been used for dilution curves are as follows : • Adults - 5 . 0 mg • Children - 2 . 5 mg • Infants - 1 . 25 mg These doses of the dye are usually injected in a mL volume .
An average of five dilution curves are required in the performance of a diagnostic cardiac catheterization .
The total dose of dye injected should be kept below 2 mg / kg .
Calibrating Dye Curves : To quantitate the dilution curves , standard dilutions of IC ‑ GREEN ™ in whole blood are made as follows .
It is strongly recommended that the same dye that was used for the injections be used in the preparation of these standard dilutions .
The most concentrated dye solution is made by accurately diluting 1 mL of the 5 mg / mL dye with 7 mL of distilled water .
This concentration is then successively halved by diluting 4 mL of the previous concentration with 4 mL of distilled water .
( If a 2 . 5 mg / mL concentration was used for the dilution curves , 1 mL of the 2 . 5 mg / mL dye is added to 3 mL of distilled water to make the most concentrated " standard " solution .
This concentration is then successively halved by diluting 2 mL of the previous concentration with 2 mL of distilled water . )
Then 0 . 2 mL portions ( accurately measured from a calibrated syringe ) of these dye solutions are added to 5 mL aliquots of the subject ' s blood , giving final concentrations of the dye in blood beginning with 24 . 0 mg / liter , approximately ( actual concentration depends on the exact volume of dye added ) .
This concentration is , of course , successively halved in the succeeding aliquots of the subject ' s blood .
These aliquots of blood containing known amounts of dye , as well as a blank sample of which 0 . 2 mL of saline containing no dye has been added , are then passed through the detecting instrument and a calibration curve is constructed from the deflections recorded .
HEPATIC FUNCTION STUDIES : Due to its absorption spectrum , changing concentrations of IC ‑ GREEN ™ ( indocyanine green for injection ) in the blood can be monitored by ear densitometry or by obtaining blood specimens at timed intervals .
The technique for both methods is as follows .
The patient should be studied in a fasting , basal state .
The patient should be weighed and the dosage calculated on the basis of 0 . 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Under sterile conditions , the IC ‑ GREEN ™ powder should be dissolved with the Aqueous Solvent provided .
Exactly 5 mL of aqueous solvent should be added to the 25 mg vial giving 5 mg of dye per mL of solution .
Inject the correct amount of dye into the lumen of an arm vein as rapidly as possible , without allowing the dye to escape outside the vein .
( If the photometric method is used , prior to injecting IC ‑ GREEN ™ , withdraw 6 mL of venous blood from the patient ' s arm for serum blank and standard curve construction , and through the same needle , inject the correct amount of dye . )
Ear Densitometry : Ear oximetry has also been used and makes it possible to monitor the appearance and disappearance of IC ‑ GREEN ™ without the necessity of withdrawal and spectrophotometric analysis of blood samples for calibration .
An ear densitometer which has a compensatory photo - electric cell to correct for changes in blood volume and hematocrit , and a detection photocell which registers levels has been described .
This device permits simultaneous measurement of cardiac output , blood volume and hepatic clearance of IC ‑ GREEN ™ * and was found to provide a reliable index of plasma removal kinetics after single injections or continuous intrusions of IC ‑ GREEN ™ .
This technique was employed in newborn infants , healthy adults and in children and adults with liver disease .
The normal subject has a removal rate of 18 ‑ 24 % per minute .
Due to the absence of extra ‑ hepatic removal , IC ‑ GREEN ™ was found to be ideally suited for serial study of severe chronic liver disease and to provide a stable measurement of hepatic blood flow .
In larger doses , IC ‑ GREEN ™ has proven to be particularly valuable in detecting drug ‑ induced alterations of hepatic function and in the detection of mild liver injury .
Using the ear densitometer , a dosage of 0 . 5 mg / kg in normal subjects gives the following clearance pattern .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Dichromatic earpiece densitometer supplied by The Waters Company , Rochester , Minnesota .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Photometric Method - Determination Using Percentage Retention of Dye : A typical curve obtained by plotting dye concentration versus optical density is shown opposite .
Percent retention can be read from this plot .
If more accurate results are desired , a curve using the patient ' s blood and the vial of IC ‑ GREEN ™ being used in the determination can be constructed as follows : • Take 6 mL of non - dye - containing venous blood from the patient ' s arm .
Place in a test tube and allow the blood to clot .
The serum is separated by centrifugation .
• Pipette 1 mL of the serum into a microcuvette .
• Add 1 lambda ( λ ) of the 5 mg / mL aqueous IC ‑ GREEN ™ ( sterile indocyanine green ) solution to the serum , giving a dilution of 5 mg / liter , the standard for 50 % retention .
( The addition of 2 lambda ( λ ) of the 5 mg / mL IC ‑ GREEN ™ solution would give 100 % retention ; however , this concentration cannot be read on the spectrophotometer . )
• The optical density of this solution is read at 805 nm , using normal serum as the blank .
• Using graph paper similar to that used in the illustration , plot the 50 % figure obtained in Step 4 , and draw a line connecting this point with the zero coordinates .
Percentage Retention : A single 20 ‑ minute sample ( withdrawn from a vein in the opposite arm to that injected ) is allowed to clot , centrifuged and its optical density is determined at 805 nm using the patient ' s normal serum as the blank .
Dye concentration is read from the curve above .
A single 20 ‑ minute sample of serum in healthy subjects should contain no more than 4 % of the initial concentration of the dye .
The use of percentage retention is less accurate than percentage disappearance rate , but provides reproducible results .
Hemolysis does not interfere with a reading .
Determination Using Disappearance Rate of Dye : To calculate the percentage disappearance rate , obtain samples at 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 minutes after injecting the dye .
Prepare the sample as in the previous section and measure the optical densities at 805 nm , using the patient ' s normal serum as the blank .
The IC ‑ GREEN ™ concentration in each timed specimen can be determined by using the concentration curve illustrated .
Plot values on semilogarithmic paper .
Specimens containing IC ‑ GREEN ™ should be read at the same temperature since its optical density is influenced by temperature variations .
Normal Values : Percentage disappearance rate in healthy subjects is 18 ‑ 24 % per minute .
Normal biological half ‑ time is 2 . 5 ‑ 3 . 0 minutes .
OPHTHALMIC ANGIOGRAPHY STUDIES : The excitation and emission spectra ( Figure 1 ) and the absorption spectra ( Figure 2 ) of IC ‑ GREEN ™ make it useful in ophthalmic angiography .
The peak absorption and emission of IC ‑ GREEN ™ lie in a region ( 800 ‑ 850 nm ) where transmission of energy by the pigment epithelium is more efficient than in the region of visible light energy .
IC ‑ GREEN ™ also has the property of being nearly 98 % bound to blood protein , and therefore , excessive dye extravasation does not take place in the highly fenestrated choroidal vasculature .
It is , therefore , useful in both absorption and fluorescence infrared angiography of the choroidal vasculature when using appropriate filters and film in a fundus camera .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosages up to 40 mg IC - GREEN ™ dye in 2 mL of aqueous solvent have been found to give optimal angiograms , depending on the imaging equipment and technique used .
The antecubital vein injected IC - GREEN ™ dye bolus should immediately be followed by a 5 mL bolus of normal saline .
Clinically , angiograms of uniformly good quality can be assured only after taking care to optimize the contributions of all possible factors such as , patient cooperation and dye injection .
The foregoing injection regimen is designed to provide delivery of a spatially limited dye bolus of optimal concentration to the choroidal vasculature following intravenous injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED : IC - GREEN ™ is supplied in a kit ( NDC 75874 - 701 - 02 ) containing six 25 mg IC - GREEN ™ vials and six 10 mL Aqueous Solvent ampules : • NDC 75874 - 701 - 25 IC - GREEN ™ vial .
25 mg fill in 20 mL vial .
• NDC 17478 - 701 - 10 Aqueous Solvent ampule .
10 mL fill in 10 mL ampule .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx only Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 Manufactured for : Novadaq Technologies Inc .
Mississauga , ON Canada L4W 4L5 Distributed by : LifeCell Corporation Brachburg , NJ 08876 LCIG00N Rev . 01 / 11 NDC 75874 - 701 - 25 25 mg IC - GREEN ( indocyanine green For injection , USP ) After reconstitution , use within 6 hours .
Rx only Sterile Manufactured for : Novadaq Technologies , Inc .
Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Distributed by : LifeCell Corporation [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
