DESCRIPTION Lidotral ™ ( Lidocaine HCl ) 3 . 88 % Cream contains Lidocaine HCl 3 . 88 % in a mild acidic vehicle .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ingredients : Each gram of Lidotral ™ 3 . 88 % Cream contains Lidocaine HCl USP 38 . 8 mg .
Inactive Ingredients include : Calcium Acetate , Ceteareth 20 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Phosphate Monobasic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Lidotral ™ 3 . 88 % Cream releases lidocaine from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
Pharmacokinetics : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation of the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjungation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexlidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentration of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid - glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes , insect bites , and minor skin irritation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tuberculous or fungal lesions of skin vaccinia , varicella and acute herpes simplex and in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Lidotral ™ ( Lidocaine HCl ) 3 . 88 % Cream should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Use in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects ; Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed for lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Dosage in pediatric patients would be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED DermacinRx ® Lidotral ™ ( Lidocaine HCl ) 3 . 88 % Cream 3 oz ( 85 g ) tube - NDC 59088 - 371 - 07 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : PureTek Corporation , San Fernando , CA 91340 Rev . 37744 10 / 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY DermacinRx ® Lidotral ™ ( Lidocaine HCl ) 3 . 88 % Cream - 3 oz ( 85 g ) carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
