Rx Only Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are an antispasmodic , anticholinergic agent .
Each Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablet contains 5 mg , 10 mg , or 15 mg of oxybutynin chloride USP , formulated as a once - a - day extended - release tablet for oral administration .
Oxybutynin chloride is administered as a racemate of R - and S - enantiomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - diethylamino - 2 - butynyl phenylcyclohexylglycolate hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin chloride is C22H31NO3 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 393 . 9 .
It is readily soluble in water and acids , but relatively insoluble in alkalis .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets also contain the following inert ingredients : anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , mannitol , anhydrous dextrose , tartaric acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , cellulose acetate , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide , triacetin , black iron oxide , propylene glycol , hypromellose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] System Components and Performance Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets uses osmotic pressure to deliver oxybutynin chloride at a controlled rate over approximately 24 hours .
The system , which resembles a conventional tablet in appearance , comprises an osmotically active core surrounded by a semipermeable membrane .
The unitary tablet core is composed of the drug and excipients ( including the osmotically active components ) .
There is a precision - laser drilled orifice in the semipermeable membrane on the side of the tablet .
In an aqueous environment , such as the gastrointestinal tract , water permeates through the membrane into the tablet core , causing the drug to go into suspension and the osmotic components to expand .
This expansion pushes the drug out through the orifice .
The semipermeable membrane controls the rate at which water permeates into the tablet core , which in turn controls the rate of drug delivery .
The controlled rate of drug delivery into the gastrointestinal lumen is thus independent of pH or gastrointestinal motility .
The function of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets depends on the existence of an osmotic gradient between the contents of the core and the fluid in the gastrointestinal tract .
Since the osmotic gradient remains constant , drug delivery remains essentially constant .
The biologically inert components of the tablet remain intact during gastrointestinal transit and are eliminated in the feces as an insoluble shell .
USP Drug Release Test 3 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oxybutynin chloride exerts a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin chloride exhibits only one - fifth of the anticholinergic activity of atropine on the rabbit detrusor muscle , but four to ten times the antispasmodic activity .
No blocking effects occur at skeletal neuromuscular junctions or autonomic ganglia ( antinicotinic effects ) .
Oxybutynin chloride relaxes bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary bladder contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases bladder ( vesical ) capacity , diminishes the frequency of uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle , and delays the initial desire to void .
Oxybutynin thus decreases urgency and the frequency of both incontinent episodes and voluntary urination .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly in the R - isomer .
A metabolite , desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following the first dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , oxybutynin plasma concentrations rise for 4 to 6 hours ; thereafter steady concentrations are maintained for up to 24 hours , minimizing fluctuations between peak and trough concentrations associated with oxybutynin .
The relative bioavailabilities of R - and S - oxybutynin from Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are 156 % and 187 % , respectively , compared with oxybutynin .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters for R - and S - oxybutynin are summarized in Table 1 .
The plasma concentration - time profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 1 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin .
Table 1 Mean ( SD ) R - and S - Oxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single Dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg ( n = 43 ) Parameters ( units ) R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 8 ( 1 . 0 ) Tmax ( h ) 12 . 7 ( 5 . 4 ) 11 . 8 ( 5 . 3 ) T1 / 2 ( h ) 13 . 2 ( 6 . 2 ) 12 . 4 ( 6 . 1 ) AUC ( 0 - 48 ) ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 18 . 4 ( 10 . 3 ) 34 . 2 ( 16 . 9 ) AUCinf ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 21 . 3 ( 12 . 2 ) 39 . 5 ( 21 . 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Steady - state oxybutynin plasma concentrations are achieved by Day 3 of repeated Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets dosing , with no observed drug accumulation or change in oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin pharmacokinetic parameters .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets steady - state pharmacokinetics were studied in 19 children aged 5 - 15 years with detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
The children were on Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets total daily dose ranging from 5 to 20 mg ( 0 . 10 to 0 . 77 mg / kg ) .
Sparse sampling technique was used to obtain serum samples .
When all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg per day Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , the mean pharmacokinetic parameters derived for R - and S - oxybutynin and R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are summarized in Table 2 .
The plasma - time concentration profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 2 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin when all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg per day .
Table 2 Mean ± SD R - and S - Oxybutynin and R - and S - Desethyloxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Children Aged 5 - 15 Following Administration of 5 to 20 mg Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets Once Daily ( n = 19 ) All available Data Normalized to an Equivalent of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 mg Once Daily R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin R - Desethyloxybutynin S - Desethyloxybutynin Cmax ( ng / mL ) 0 . 7 ± 0 . 4 1 . 3 ± 0 . 8 7 . 8 ± 3 . 7 4 . 2 ± 2 . 3 Tmax ( hr ) 5 5 5 5 AUC ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) 12 . 8 ± 7 . 0 23 . 7 ± 14 . 4 125 . 1 ± 66 . 7 73 . 6 ± 47 . 7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effects The rate and extent of absorption and metabolism of oxybutynin are similar under fed and fasted conditions .
Distribution Plasma concentrations of oxybutynin decline biexponentially following intravenous or oral administration .
The volume of distribution is 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Its metabolic products include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and desethyloxybutynin , which is pharmacologically active .
Following Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets administration , plasma concentrations of R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are 73 % and 92 % , respectively , of concentrations observed with oxybutynin .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Also , less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite desethyloxybutynin .
Dose Proportionality Pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin ( Cmax and AUC ) following administration of 5 - 20 mg of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are dose proportional .
Special Populations Geriatric The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were similar in all patients studied ( up to 78 years of age ) .
Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were evaluated in 19 children aged 5 - 15 years with detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in these pediatric patients were consistent with those reported for adults ( see Tables 1 and 2 , and Figures 1 and 2 above ) .
Gender There are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin in healthy male and female volunteers following administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
Race Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on race in healthy volunteers following administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
Renal Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in patients with renal insufficiency .
Hepatic Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Drug - Drug Interactions See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions .
CLINICAL STUDIES Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were evaluated for the treatment of patients with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency in three controlled studies and one open label study .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 89 . 0 % ) and female ( 91 . 9 % ) with a mean age of 59 years ( range , 18 to 98 years ) .
Entry criteria required that patients have urge or mixed incontinence ( with a predominance of urge ) as evidenced by ≥ 6 urge incontinence episodes per week and ≥ 10 micturitions per day .
Study 1 was a fixed dose escalation design , whereas the other studies used a dose adjustment design in which each patient ' s final dose was adjusted to a balance between improvement of incontinence symptoms and tolerability of side effects .
Controlled studies included patients known to be responsive to oxybutynin or other anticholinergic medications , and these patients were maintained on a final dose for up to 2 weeks .
The efficacy results for the three controlled trials are presented in the following tables and figures .
Number of Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per WeekStudy 1 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n Placebo Mean Baseline 34 15 . 9 16 20 . 9 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline [ 1 ] 34 - 15 . 8 ( 8 . 9 ) 16 - 7 . 6 ( 8 . 6 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( - 13 . 6 , - 2 . 8 ) [ 2 ] ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets – Placebo ) [ 1 ] Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline values [ 2 ] The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and placebo was statistically significant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n oxybutynin Mean Baseline 53 27 . 6 52 23 . 0 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline [ 1 ] 53 - 17 . 6 ( 11 . 9 ) 52 - 19 . 4 ( 11 . 9 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( - 2 . 8 , 6 . 5 ) ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets – oxybutynin ) [ 1 ] Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline values [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 3 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n oxybutynin Mean Baseline 111 18 . 9 115 19 . 5 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline [ 1 ] 111 - 14 . 5 ( 8 . 7 ) 115 - 13 . 8 ( 8 . 6 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets – oxybutynin ) ( - 3 . 0 , 1 . 6 ) [ 2 ] [ 1 ] Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline value [ 2 ] The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and oxybutynin fulfilled the criteria for comparable efficacy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are a once - daily extended - release tablet indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are also indicated in the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions , uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma and in patients who are at risk for these conditions .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product .
WARNINGS Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue and / or larynx has been reported with oxybutynin .
In some cases , angioedema occurred after the first dose .
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life - threatening .
If involvement of the tongue , hypopharynx , or larynx occurs , oxybutynin should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided .
PRECAUTIONS Central Nervous System Effects Oxybutynin is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including hallucinations , agitation , confusion and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly in the first few months after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with preexisting dementia treated with cholinesterase inhibitors due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
General Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with hepatic or renal impairment and in patients with myasthenia gravis due to the risk of symptom aggravation .
Urinary Retention Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis and intestinal atony .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
As with any other nondeformable material , caution should be used when administering Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets to patients with preexisting severe gastrointestinal narrowing ( pathologic or iatrogenic ) .
There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of other drugs in nondeformable extended - release formulations .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that oxybutynin may produce angioedema that could result in life - threatening airway obstruction .
Patients should be advised to promptly discontinue oxybutynin therapy and seek immediate medical attention if they experience edema of the tongue , edema of the laryngopharynx , or difficulty breathing .
Patients should be informed that heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur when anticholinergics such as oxybutynin chloride are administered in the presence of high environmental temperature .
Because anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin may produce drowsiness ( somnolence ) or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution .
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin .
Patients should be informed that Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids .
Patients should not chew , divide , or crush tablets .
The medication is contained within a nonabsorbable shell designed to release the drug at a controlled rate .
The tablet shell is eliminated from the body ; patients should not be concerned if they occasionally notice in their stool something that looks like a tablet .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be taken at approximately the same time each day .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth , constipation , somnolence ( drowsiness ) , and / or other anticholinergic - like effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
This may be of concern for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 2 fold higher when Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were administered with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , itraconazole and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) , may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters ( i . e . , Cmax and AUC ) .
The clinical relevance of such potential interactions is not known .
Caution should be used when such drugs are co - administered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 , and 160 mg / kg / day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 , and 50 times the maximum human exposure , based on surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the animal fetus .
The safety of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets administration to women who are or who may become pregnant has not been established .
Therefore , Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should not be given to pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the probable clinical benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether oxybutynin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were studied in 60 children in a 24 - week , open - label trial .
Patients were aged 6 - 15 years , all had symptoms of detrusor overactivity in association with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) , all used clean intermittent catheterization , and all were current users of oxybutynin chloride .
Study results demonstrated that administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 to 20 mg / day was associated with an increase from baseline in mean urine volume per catheterization from 108 mL to 136 mL , an increase from baseline in mean urine volume after morning awakening from 148 mL to 189 mL , and an increase from baseline in the mean percentage of catheterizations without a leaking episode from 34 % to 51 % .
Urodynamic results were consistent with clinical results .
Administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets resulted in an increase from baseline in mean maximum cystometric capacity from 185 mL to 254 mL , a decrease from baseline in mean detrusor pressure at maximum cystometric capacity from 44 cm H2O to 33 cm H2O , and a reduction in the percentage of patients demonstrating uninhibited detrusor contractions ( of at least 15 cm H2O ) from 60 % to 28 % .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients who can not swallow the tablet whole without chewing , dividing , or crushing , or in children under the age of 6 ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use The rate and severity of anticholinergic effects reported by patients less than 65 years old and those 65 years and older were similar ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , Special Populations : Geriatric ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Events with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets The safety and efficacy of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were evaluated in a total of 580 participants who received Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in 4 clinical trials ( 429 patients ) and four pharmacokinetic studies ( 151 healthy volunteers ) .
The 429 patients were treated with 5 - 30 mg / day for up to 4 . 5 months .
Three of the 4 clinical trials allowed dose adjustments based on efficacy and adverse events and one was a fixed dose escalation design .
Safety information is provided for 429 patients from these three controlled clinical studies and one open label study in the first column of Table 3 below .
Adverse events from two additional fixed dose , active controlled , 12 week treatment duration , postmarketing studies , in which 576 patients were treated with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg / day , are also listed in Table 3 ( second column ) .
The adverse events are reported regardless of causality .
Table 3 Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 5 % of Patients Using Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets ( 5 - 30 mg / day ) and % of Corresponding Adverse Events in Two Fixed Dose ( 10 mg / day ) StudiesBody System Adverse Event Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 - 30 mg / day ( n = 429 ) Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg / day ( n = 576 ) General headache 10 6 asthenia 7 3 pain 7 4 Digestive dry mouth 61 29 constipation 13 7 diarrhea 9 7 nausea 9 2 dyspepsia 7 5 Nervous somnolence 12 2 dizziness 6 4 Respiratory rhinitis 6 2 Special Senses blurred vision 8 1 dry eyes 6 3 Urogenital urinary tract infection 5 5 The most common adverse events reported by the 429 patients receiving 5 - 30 mg / day Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were the expected side effects of anticholinergic agents .
The incidence of dry mouth was dose - related .
The discontinuation rate for all adverse events was 6 . 8 % in the 429 patients from the 4 studies of efficacy and safety who received 5 - 30 mg / day .
The most frequent adverse event causing early discontinuation of study medication was nausea ( 1 . 9 % ) , while discontinuation due to dry mouth was 1 . 2 % .
In addition , the following adverse events were reported by ≥ 1 to < 5 % of all patients who received Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in the 6 adjustable and fixed dose efficacy and safety studies .
Infections and infestations : nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , bronchitis , cystitis ; Psychiatric disorders : insomnia , depression , nervousness , confusional state ; Nervous System Disorders : dysgeusia ; Cardiac disorders : palpitations ; Vascular disorders : hypertension ; Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : nasal dryness , cough , pharyngolaryngeal pain , dry throat ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : gastroesophageal reflux disease , abdominal pain , loose stools , flatulence , vomiting ; Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : dry skin , pruritis ; Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : back pain , arthralgia , pain in extremity ; Renal and urinary disorders : urinary retention , urinary hesitation , dysuria ; General disorders and administration site conditions : fatigue , edema peripheral , asthenia , chest pain ; Investigations : blood pressure increased .
Postmarketing Surveillance Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets : Psychiatric Disorders : psychotic disorder , agitation , hallucinations ; Nervous System Disorders : convulsions ; Cardiac Disorders : arrhythmia ; tachycardia ; QT interval prolongation , Vascular Disorders : flushing ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : rash ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : impotence ; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema with airway obstruction , urticaria , and face edema ; rare anaphylactic reactions requiring hospitalization for emergency treatment ; Injury , poisoning and procedural complications : fall .
Additional adverse events reported with some other oxybutynin chloride formulations include : cycloplegia , mydriasis , and suppression of lactation .
OVERDOSAGE The continuous release of oxybutynin from Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be considered in the treatment of overdosage .
Patients should be monitored for at least 24 hours .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Activated charcoal as well as a cathartic may be administered .
Overdosage with oxybutynin chloride has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 - year - old boy who experienced memory loss , and a 34 - year - old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients fully recovered with symptomatic treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids , and must not be chewed , divided , or crushed .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets may be administered with or without food .
Adults The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets is 5 or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day .
Dosage may be adjusted in 5 - mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability ( up to a maximum of 30 mg / day ) .
In general , dosage adjustment may proceed at approximately weekly intervals .
Pediatric patients aged 6 years of age and older The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets is 5 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day .
Dosage may be adjusted in 5 - mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability ( up to a maximum of 20 mg / day ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - Release Tablets USP 5 mg are round , biconvex , white coated tablets imprinted in black ink with 270 on one side and K and U on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 Tablets NDC 62175 - 270 - 32 Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC 62175 - 270 - 37 Bottles of 500 Tablets NDC 62175 - 270 - 41 Bottles of 1000 Tablets NDC 62175 - 270 - 43 Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - Release Tablets USP 10 mg are round , biconvex , white coated tablets imprinted in black ink with 271 on one side and K and U on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 Tablets NDC 62175 - 271 - 32 Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC 62175 - 271 - 37 Bottles of 500 Tablets NDC 62175 - 271 - 41 Bottles of 1000 Tablets NDC 62175 - 271 - 43 Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - Release Tablets USP 15 mg are round , biconvex , white coated tablets imprinted in black ink with 272 on one side and K and U on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 Tablets NDC 62175 - 272 - 32 Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC 62175 - 272 - 37 Bottles of 500 Tablets NDC 62175 - 272 - 41 Bottles of 1000 Tablets NDC 62175 - 272 - 43 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture and humidity .
For Medical Information Contact : Medical Affairs Department Phone : ( 866 ) 822 - 0068 Fax : ( 770 ) 970 - 8859 Distributed by : Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 , USA for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Wilmington , NC 28405 , USA L5094F Rev . 5 E 07 / 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repackaging Information Please reference the information listed above for a description of individual tablets or capsules .
This drug product has been received in one of the manufacturer or distributor packaged configurations and repackaged by Aphena Pharma - TN in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 10 mg 1600 43353 - 769 - 41 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20120326 AW [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg NDC 43353 - 769 Oxybutynin Chloride 10 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
