Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face , neck , chest and back Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet face • dispense product into hands , lather and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area • rinse thoroughly with warm water one to three times daily and gently pat dry • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly closed • store in a cool , dry place • do not store in direct sunlight Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , sodium laureth sulfate , cocamidopropyl betaine , coco - glucoside , decyl glucoside , PEG - 200 hydrogenated glyceryl palmate , laureth 4 , PEG - 7 glyceryl cocoate , polyquaternium 43 , fragrance , sodium hydroxide , phenoxyethanol , sodium benzoate , lavandula stoechas extract , helichrysum italicum extract , cistus monspeliensis extract , blue 1 Questions ?
1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed By : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Active Ingredient Made in Brazil PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mL Bottle Label Clearasil ® ACTIVE DEEP CLEANSING FACE & BODY WASH Salicylic Acid Acne Medication PREVENTS BREAKOUTS FOR ACTIVE SKIN CLEANSE THE SKIN OF SWEAT , DIRT & EXCESS OIL 6 . 7 fl oz ( 200 mL ) 051818 8334792 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
