1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OLPRUVA is indicated as adjunctive therapy to standard of care , which includes dietary management , for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or greater and with a body surface area ( BSA ) of 1 . 2 m2 or greater , with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) , or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
• OLPRUVA is a nitrogen - binding agent indicated as adjunctive therapy to standard of care , which includes dietary management , for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or greater and with a body surface area ( BSA ) of 1 . 2 m2 or greater , with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) , or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : OLPRUVA is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Episodes of acute hyperammonemia may occur in patients while on OLPRUVA .
OLPRUVA is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia , which can be a life - threatening medical emergency that requires rapid acting interventions to reduce plasma ammonia levels .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • OLPRUVA treatment should be supervised by a healthcare provider experienced in the treatment of UCDs .
For preparation and administration , see full prescribing information .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) • The recommended dosage is 9 . 9 - 13 g / m2 / day .
( 2 . 1 ) • Monitor plasma ammonia levels to determine the need for dosage adjustment .
( 2 . 2 ) • Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity .
( 2 . 2 ) • For patients with hepatic impairment , start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage OLPRUVA treatment should be supervised by a healthcare provider experienced in the treatment of urea cycle disorders .
The recommended dosage of OLPRUVA for patients with urea cycle disorders is 9 . 9 – 13 g / m2 / day orally .
Divide the calculated total daily dose into three to six doses .
Administer as three to six divided doses and take with food .
Round each individual dose of OLPRUVA to the nearest available dosage strength .
The maximum dosage is 20 grams per day .
Combine OLPRUVA with dietary protein restriction and , in some cases , amino acid supplementation ( e . g . , essential amino acids , arginine , citrulline , and protein - free calorie supplements ) .
If a dose is missed , take the missed dose as soon as possible on the same day .
2 . 2 Dosage Administration and Monitoring Monitor plasma ammonia levels to determine the need for dosage adjustment .
Adjust the OLPRUVA dosage to maintain the plasma ammonia level within the normal range for the patient ' s age , taking into consideration their clinical condition ( e . g . , nutritional requirements , protein intake , growth parameters , etc . ) .
Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity and obtain measurements of plasma phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
If neurologic symptoms ( e . g . , vomiting , nausea , headache , somnolence , or confusion ) are present in the absence of high ammonia levels or other incurrent illnesses , consider reducing the dose of OLPRUVA .
2 . 3 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with hepatic impairment , start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range and maintain patients on the lowest dose necessary to control plasma ammonia levels [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Instructions For oral administration only .
Do not administer via gastrostomy or nasogastric tubes .
• Pour the entire contents of the Mix - Aid packet into approximately 4 ounces of water in a cup and stir , forming a suspension .
• Pour the entire contents of the OLPRUVA packet ( s ) into the suspension and stir .
• Drink the entire suspension within 5 minutes after stirring to minimize dissolution of coating .
After 30 minutes , the suspension should be discarded .
• Pour another 4 ounces of water into the cup and drink to make sure that any OLPRUVA remaining in the cup is consumed .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral suspension : 2 g , 3 g , 4 g , 5 g , 6 g , and 6 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate as white to off - white pellets in packet ( s ) for reconstitution .
• For oral suspension : 2 g , 3 g , 4 g , 5 g , 6 g , and 6 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate as pellets in packets for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Neurotoxicity of Phenylacetate : Increased exposure to phenylacetate , the major metabolite of OLPRUVA , may be associated with neurotoxicity in patients with UCDs .
Consider reducing the dose if neurotoxicity symptoms are present .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypokalemia : Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine may induce urinary loss of potassium .
Monitor serum potassium during therapy and initiate appropriate treatment when necessary .
( 5 . 2 ) • Conditions Associated with Edema : Calculate the total amount of sodium patients will be exposed to based on their body surface area .
If a patient develops new - onset edema or worsening edema while on treatment , discontinue administration of OLPRUVA and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Neurotoxicity of Phenylacetate Increased exposure to phenylacetate , the major metabolite of OLPRUVA , may be associated with neurotoxicity in patients with UCDs .
In a study of adult cancer patients receiving intravenous phenylacetate , 250 - 300 mg / kg / day for 14 days , repeated at 4 - week intervals , signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity , which were reversible upon discontinuation , were seen at plasma concentrations ≥ 3 . 5 mmol / L , and included somnolence , fatigue , and light headedness [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
OLPRUVA is not approved for intravenous use or for treatment of patients with cancer .
If symptoms of vomiting , nausea , headache , somnolence , or confusion are present in the absence of high ammonia levels or other intercurrent illnesses , consider reducing the dose of OLPRUVA [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Phenylacetate caused neurotoxicity when given subcutaneously in rat pups [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypokalemia Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine may induce urinary loss of potassium .
Monitor serum potassium during therapy and initiate appropriate treatment when necessary .
5 . 3 Conditions Associated with Edema OLPRUVA contains 124 mg ( 5 . 4 mmol ) of sodium per gram of sodium phenylbutyrate ( 12 . 4 % w / w ) and the Mix - Aid contains 5 mg of sodium per packet , corresponding to 2 . 5 g ( 108 mmol ) of sodium in the maximum daily dose of 20 g of OLPRUVA .
In order to decide if administration of OLPRUVA is appropriate in patients with diseases that involve edema , such as heart failure , cirrhosis , or nephrosis , calculate the total amount of sodium patients will be exposed to based on their BSAs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
If a patient develops new - onset edema or worsening edema while on treatment , discontinue administration of OLPRUVA and initiate appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of sodium phenylbutyrate were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction ( irregular menstrual cycles ) , decreased appetite , body odor and bad taste or taste aversion .
Less Common Clinical Adverse Reactions Blood and lymphatic system disorders : aplastic anemia , ecchymoses Cardiac disorders : arrhythmia Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain , gastritis , nausea and vomiting , constipation , rectal bleeding , peptic ulcer disease , pancreatitis Metabolism and nutrition disorders : increased weight , edema Nervous system disorders : syncope , headache Psychiatric disorders : depression Renal and urinary disorders : renal tubular acidosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash Laboratory Adverse Reactions Blood and lymphatic system disorders : anemia , leukopenia and leukocytosis , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytosis Hepatobiliary disorders : hyperbilirubinemia , increased blood alkaline phosphatase , increased transaminases Metabolism and nutrition disorders : acidosis , alkalosis , hyperchloremia , hypophosphatemia , hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypernatremia , hypokalemia , hypoalbuminemia , decreased total protein Clinical Adverse Reactions with Use of Phenylacetate Nervous system disorders : Neurotoxicity was reported in cancer patients receiving intravenous phenylacetate , the major metabolite of OLPRUVA ( OLPRUVA is not approved for intravenous use or for treatment of patients with cancer ) .
Signs and symptoms were predominately somnolence , fatigue , and dizziness ( lightheadedness ) ; less frequently reported were headache , dysgeusia , hypoacusis , disorientation , memory impairment , and exacerbation of a pre - existing neuropathy .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are menstrual dysfunction , decreased appetite , body odor and bad taste or taste aversion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Acer Therapeutics Inc . at 1 - 844 - 600 - 2237 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Valproic Acid , Haloperidol , or Corticosteroids : May increase plasma ammonia levels ; monitor ammonia levels closely .
( 7 . 1 ) • Probenecid : May inhibit renal excretion of metabolites of OLPRUVA including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine ; monitor for potential neurotoxicity .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Ammonia Corticosteroids Use of corticosteroids may cause the breakdown of body protein and increase plasma ammonia levels .
Valproic Acid and Haloperidol Hyperammonemia may be induced by haloperidol and by valproic acid .
Monitor plasma ammonia levels closely when corticosteroids , valproic acid , or haloperidol is used concomitantly with OLPRUVA .
7 . 2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect OLPRUVA Probenecid Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of OLPRUVA including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine .
Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity and measure plasma phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine levels when probenecid is used concomitantly with OLPRUVA [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with sodium phenylbutyrate use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium phenylbutyrate .
Based on published animal data , phenylacetate may be neurotoxic to the developing brain ( see Data ) .
There are serious risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated urea cycle disorders during pregnancy which can result in serious morbidity and mortality to the mother and fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Pregnancy is a time of increased metabolic demand which increases the risk for hyperammonemic episodes when metabolic demands are not met .
Hyperammonemic episodes in pregnancy are associated with impaired cognition in the mother and an increased risk of maternal and fetal death .
Data Animal Data In rats , intrauterine exposure to phenylacetate produced lesions in the neonatal brain in layer 5 of the cortical pyramidal cells ; dendritic spines were longer and thinner than normal and reduced in number .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of sodium phenylbutyrate and its metabolite in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for OLPRUVA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from OLPRUVA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of OLPRUVA have been established as adjunctive therapy to the standard of care , which includes dietary management , in the chronic management of pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or greater and with a body surface area 1 . 2 m2 or greater , with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) , or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
OLPRUVA is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia which can be a life - threatening medical emergency that requires rapid acting interventions to reduce plasma ammonia levels .
The sodium content of OLPRUVA has the potential to cause new - onset edema or worsening edema from salt and water retention , particularly in patients with underlying predisposing conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
OLPRUVA is not approved in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg or in pediatric patients weighing 20 kg or greater with a BSA of less than 1 . 2 m2 .
Neurotoxicity has been observed in juvenile animals with phenylacetate exposure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data When given subcutaneously to neonatal rats , 190 - 474 mg / kg phenylacetate caused decreased proliferation and increased loss of neurons , and it reduced CNS myelin .
Cerebral synapse maturation was retarded , and the number of functioning nerve terminals in the cerebrum was reduced , which resulted in impaired brain growth .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of OLPRUVA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No studies with OLPRUVA were conducted in subjects with renal impairment .
Monitor plasma ammonia levels when starting patients with impaired renal function on OLPRUVA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies with OLPRUVA were conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment .
Start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range and maintain patients with hepatic impairment on the lowest dose necessary to control plasma ammonia levels [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdoses of OLPRUVA exceeding ten - fold the maximum recommended dosage may produce emesis , CNS depression , metabolic acidosis with or without respiratory alkalosis , hypernatremia , hypokalemia , and hypophosphatemia .
Symptoms of overdose overlap with those of acute hyperammonemia .
If overdose occurs , discontinue OLPRUVA , monitor plasma phenylacetate and ammonia levels closely , and institute appropriate emergency management , which may include hemodialysis , continuous veno - venous hemofiltration ( CVVH ) or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ECMO ) .
11 DESCRIPTION OLPRUVA ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension is a nitrogen binding agent .
Sodium phenylbutyrate is a white to yellowish - white powder .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , and practically insoluble in acetone and diethyl ether .
It is known chemically as sodium 4 - phenylbutyrate with a molecular weight of 186 . 19 and molecular formula C10H11NaO2 .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] OLPRUVA is supplied in dosage envelopes containing 2 g ( equivalent to 1 . 75 g phenylbutyrate ) , 3 g ( equivalent to 2 . 63 g phenylbutyrate ) , 4 g ( equivalent to 3 . 51 g phenylbutyrate ) , 5 g ( equivalent to 4 . 38 g phenylbutyrate ) , 6 g ( equivalent to 5 . 26 g phenylbutyrate ) , and 6 . 67 g ( equivalent to 5 . 85 g phenylbutyrate ) of sodium phenylbutyrate in one or two packets .
OLPRUVA is a polymer coated formulation which contains the following inactive ingredients : amino methacrylate copolymer , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 6000 , silicon dioxide , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sodium phenylbutyrate is a pro - drug and is metabolized to phenylacetate .
Phenylacetate is a metabolically active compound that conjugates with glutamine via acetylation to form phenylacetylglutamine .
Phenylacetylglutamine is excreted by the kidneys , hence providing an alternate vehicle for waste nitrogen excretion .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In patients with urea cycle disorders , sodium phenylbutyrate decreased elevated plasma ammonia and glutamine levels .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of phenylbutyrate and its metabolite phenylacetate were characterized in healthy adult subjects following a single oral administration of OLPRUVA ( 5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate ) with suspension agent under fasted and fed conditions .
Absorption The pharmacokinetic parameters for the maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of phenylbutyrate and phenylacetate under fasted conditions are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 Cmax and AUC of Phenylbutyrate and Phenylacetate Following a Single Oral Dose Administration of OLPRUVA ( 5 g ) in Healthy Subjects Under Fasted Conditions PK Parameters Phenylbutyrate Results ( Mean ± SD ) Phenylacetate Results ( Mean ± SD ) Cmax ( μg / mL ) 229 ± 48 39 ± 14 AUCinf ( hr • μg / mL ) 510 ± 129 183 ± 76 Effect of Food Compared to those under fasted conditions , phenylbutyrate Cmax was decreased by 50 % and AUCinf decreased by 39 % when OLPRUVA was administered with a high - fat meal ( total 980 calories with 55 % fat ) .
For the metabolite phenylacetate , Cmax decreased by 32 % and AUCinf decreased by 29 % with a high - fat meal compared to fasted conditions .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of phenylbutyrate was 7 . 2 L under fasted conditions .
Elimination The mean half - life of phenylbutyrate was 0 . 5 hours under fasted conditions .
The mean half - life of phenylacetate was 1 . 2 hours under fasted conditions .
Metabolism Following oral administration , sodium phenylbutyrate is metabolized by β - oxidation into phenylacetate which is converted to its coenzyme A ester , phenylacetyl - coenzyme A and further conjugated with glutamine to form phenylacetylglutamine .
Phenylacetylglutamine is excreted by the kidneys .
The major sites for metabolism of sodium phenylbutyrate are the liver and kidneys .
Phenylacetate is also hydrolyzed by esterases in liver and blood .
Excretion Approximately 80 - 100 % of sodium phenylbutyrate is excreted by the kidneys within 24 hours as phenylacetylglutamine .
For each gram of sodium phenylbutyrate administered , it is estimated that between 0 . 12 - 0 . 15 grams of phenylacetylglutamine nitrogen are produced .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment or Hepatic Impairment OLPRUVA has not been studied in patients with renal impairment or in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro or clinical studies with OLPRUVA for determination of potential drug - drug interaction have not been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies of sodium phenylbutyrate have not been conducted .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OLPRUVA ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension is available in dosage strengths of 2 g , 3 g , 4 g , 5 g , 6 g , and 6 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate as white to off - white pellets .
Each dose is packaged in a dosage envelope containing one or two packets of sodium phenylbutyrate for oral suspension and a suspending agent packet ( labeled as Mix - Aid ) .
A 30 - day supply of OLPRUVA is provided in a kit containing 90 dosage envelopes .
Table 2 OLPRUVA Available Dosage Strengths Dosage Strength OLPRUVA packet ( s ) in each envelope Envelope NDC Kit NDC 2 g one 2 g packet ( NDC 72542 - 002 - 01 ) 72542 - 200 - 02 72542 - 200 - 09 3 g one 3 g packet ( NDC 72542 - 003 - 01 ) 72542 - 300 - 02 72542 - 300 - 09 4 g two 2 g packets 72542 - 400 - 02 72542 - 400 - 18 5 g one 2 g packet and one 3 g packet 72542 - 500 - 02 72542 - 500 - 18 6 g two 3 g packets 72542 - 600 - 02 72542 - 600 - 18 6 . 67 g one 3 g packet and one 3 . 67 g packet ( NDC 72542 - 367 - 01 ) 72542 - 667 - 02 72542 - 667 - 18 Store OLPRUVA at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Neurotoxicity Advise the patient or caregiver that neurotoxicity may occur during OLPRUVA treatment .
Inform the patient or caregiver of the signs and symptoms of this risk and to contact the healthcare provider immediately if signs and symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Preparation and Administration Inform the patient or caregiver that the OLPRUVA packet ( s ) must be mixed with the prepared Mix - Aid suspension and to drink the entire suspension within 5 minutes after stirring to minimize dissolution of coating .
After 30 minutes , the suspension should be discarded [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Inform the patient or caregiver that if a dose is missed , take the missed dose as soon as possible on the same day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Acer Therapeutics Inc . 300 Washington St . Newton , MA 02458 For more information call Acer Therapeutics Inc . at 1 - 844 - 600 - 2237 .
© 2022 Acer Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
65003012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 12 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION OLPRUVA ™ ( ol proo vah ) ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension What is OLPRUVA ?
• OLPRUVA is a prescription medicine used along with certain therapy , including changes in diet , for the long - term management of adults and children weighing 44 pounds ( 20 kg ) or greater and with a body surface area ( BSA ) of 1 . 2 m2 or greater , with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) , involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
• Episodes of rapid increase of ammonia in the blood ( acute hyperammonemia ) may happen in people during treatment with OLPRUVA .
OLPRUVA is not for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia , which can be life - threatening and requires emergency medical treatment .
• OLPRUVA is not approved in children weighing less than 44 pounds ( 20 kg ) or in children weighing 44 pounds ( 20 kg ) or greater with a BSA of less than 1 . 2 m2 .
Before taking OLPRUVA , tell your or your child ' s healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have heart problems • have kidney or liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if OLPRUVA will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if OLPRUVA passes into breastmilk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with OLPRUVA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Certain medicines may increase the level of ammonia in your blood or cause serious side effects when taken during treatment with OLPRUVA .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child take : • corticosteroids • valproic acid • haloperidol • probenecid Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your or your child ' s healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I or my child take OLPRUVA ?
Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with OLPRUVA for information about the right way to prepare and take a dose of OLPRUVA .
• Take OLPRUVA exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
Do not change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe OLPRUVA based on your or your child ' s weight .
• Take your OLPRUVA dose with food .
• If you miss a dose of OLPRUVA , take it as soon as possible that same day .
• Do not give or take OLPRUVA through a gastrostomy or nasogastric tube .
• If you take too much OLPRUVA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of OLPRUVA ?
OLPRUVA can cause serious side effects , including : • Nervous system problems ( neurotoxicity ) .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child get any of the following symptoms during treatment with OLPRUVA : • sleepiness • tiredness • lightheadedness • vomiting • nausea • headache • confusion • Low potassium levels in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood potassium levels during treatment with OLPRUVA and treat if needed .
• Conditions related to swelling ( edema ) .
OLPRUVA contains salt ( sodium ) , which can cause swelling from salt and water retention .
Your healthcare provider will decide if OLPRUVA is right for you if you have certain medical conditions that cause edema , such as heart failure , liver problems or kidney problems .
The most common side effects of OLPRUVA include : • absent or irregular menstrual periods • decreased appetite • body odor • bad taste or avoiding foods that you ate prior to getting sick ( taste aversion ) Your healthcare provider may do certain blood tests to check you or your child for side effects during treatment with OLPRUVA .
These are not all of the possible side effects of OLPRUVA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OLPRUVA ?
• Store OLPRUVA at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep OLPRUVA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OLPRUVA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use OLPRUVA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OLPRUVA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about OLPRUVA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in OLPRUVA ?
Active ingredient : sodium phenylbutyrate Inactive ingredients : amino methacrylate copolymer , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 6000 , silicon dioxide , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Acer Therapeutics Inc . 300 Washington St . Newton , MA 02458 For more information , go to www . OLPRUVA . com or call Acer Therapeutics Inc . at 1 - 844 - 600 - 2237 .
© 2022 Acer Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OLPRUVA ™ ( ol proo vah ) ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension Read this Instructions for Use before taking OLPRUVA oral suspension and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Instructions for Use does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to take a dose of OLPRUVA .
This Instructions for Use contains information on how to prepare and take 1 dose of OLPRUVA .
Supplies needed to take 1 dose of OLPRUVA as prescribed : • One dosage envelope containing OLPRUVA and Mix - Aid packets .
The contents of 1 envelope equals 1 full dose .
• An open drinking cup • A spoon • Water Step 1 : Get an open drinking cup and spoon ( See Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Add about 4 ounces of water to an open drinking cup ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Remove 1 dosage envelope from the kit ( See Figure C ) .
Note : Each kit is divided into 30 individual sections .
Each section contains 3 dosage envelopes for a total of 90 dosage envelopes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Open the dosage envelope and remove all packets ( 1 packet of Mix - Aid and 1 or 2 packets of OLPRUVA ) ( See Figure D ) .
Note : All packets in the dosage envelope must be used for 1 full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : To open the Mix - Aid packet , tear or cut with scissors , straight across from the notch ( See Figures E and F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Add the full contents of the Mix - Aid packet to the water ( in the open drinking cup ) and stir with the spoon for at least 30 seconds ( See Figure G ) .
Note : The contents will not dissolve but will make the water thicker so that OLPRUVA does not sink to the bottom of the cup .
Do not drink yet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : To open the OLPRUVA packet ( s ) , fold at the notch and tear or cut with scissors .
Add the full contents of the OLPRUVA packet ( s ) to the open drinking cup containing the mixture from Step 6 ( the water and Mix - Aid ) and stir for 15 seconds ( See Figure H ) .
Drink the entire contents of the open drinking cup within 5 minutes to help prevent the coating from dissolving ( See Figure I ) .
Note : The entire contents of each packet must be used for 1 full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : To make sure that you get the full dose , pour another 4 ounces of water in the open drinking cup , stir ( See Figure J ) and drink the entire contents ( See Figure K ) .
OLPRUVA suspension is taken by mouth only .
Do not take or give OLPRUVA suspension in a gastrostomy or nasogastric tube .
The mixed OLPRUVA suspension should be thrown away ( discarded ) after 30 minutes , if not used right away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store OLPRUVA ?
• Store OLPRUVA at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep OLPRUVA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Acer Therapeutics Inc . 300 Washington St . Newton , MA 02458 For more information , go to www . OLPRUVA . com or call Acer Therapeutics Inc . at 1 - 844 - 600 - 2237 .
© 2022 Acer Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 12 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Mix - Aid Label Tear or Cut Mix - Aid ™ Suspending agent for use with OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension Directions : Mix full contents of packet per patient instructions for use .
The contents of this packet will NOT dissolve but will make the water thicker to suspend OLPRUVA ™ .
NET WT .
0 . 11 OZ ( 3 . 1 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 2 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 200 - 09 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 2 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packet and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 2 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 1 . 75 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 2 g Pouch Label Fold at Notch and Tear NDC 72542 - 002 - 01 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 2 g per packet Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each packet contains 2 g of sodium phenylbutyrate equivalent to 1 . 75 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 2 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 200 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 2 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packet and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 2 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 1 . 75 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 3 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 300 - 09 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 3 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 2 . 63 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 3 g Pouch Label Fold at Notch and Tear NDC 72542 - 003 - 01 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 3 g per packet Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each packet contains 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate equivalent to 2 . 63 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 3 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 300 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 3 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 2 . 63 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 4 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 400 - 18 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 4 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains two OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packets and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 4 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 3 . 51 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 4 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 400 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 4 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains two OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packets and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 4 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 3 . 51 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 5 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 500 - 18 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 5 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packet , one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet , and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 4 . 38 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 5 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 500 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 5 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 2 gram packet , one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet , and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 4 . 38 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 600 - 18 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 6 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains two OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packets and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 6 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 5 . 26 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 600 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 6 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains two OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packets and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 6 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 5 . 26 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 . 67 g Carton Label NDC 72542 - 667 - 18 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 6 . 67 g Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Kit contains 90 dosage envelopes .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet , one OLPRUVA ™ 3 . 67 gram packet , and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 6 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 5 . 85 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 . 67 g Envelope Label NDC 72542 - 667 - 02 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 6 . 67 g Rx Only Keep out of reach of children Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each envelope contains one OLPRUVA ™ 3 gram packet , one OLPRUVA ™ 3 . 67 gram packet , and one Mix - Aid ™ packet .
Each 6 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate is equivalent to 5 . 85 g of phenylbutyrate .
acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 3 . 67 g Pouch Label Fold at Notch and Tear NDC 72542 - 367 - 01 OLPRUVA ™ ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) for oral suspension 3 . 67 g per packet Rx Only Recommended Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Each packet contains 3 . 67 g of sodium phenylbutyrate equivalent to 3 . 22 g of phenylbutyrate .
See accompanying patient instructions for use .
Keep out of reach of children acertherapeutics Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
