Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or highter and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , cyclopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium Herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , fragrance , tocopheryl acetate , disodium EDTA , steareth - 2 , oleth - 3 phosphate , ascorbic acid , panthenol Complete Beauty lotion 100 % Ainobenzoic Acid ( PABA ) - Free Dermatologist Tested Light , Non - Greast Formula Non - Comedogenic ( Wo n't Clog Pores ) Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen When used as directed , complete beauty lotion helps provide your skin with broad spectrum protection against prematue skin damage from both UVA and UVB rays to help your skin stay younger looking .
ALL DAY MOISTURE - Formulated with antioxidant Vitamin E plus C and nourishihg beauty moisture that absorbs quickly into skin and lasts all day to help your skin stay soft , smooth and beautiful .
DISTRIBUTED BY : AMERICAN SALES CO .
4201 WALDEN AVE LANCASTER , NY 14086 www . care1 . info 2012 S + S Brands , Inc Quality Guaranteed or Your Money Back 909 . 005 / 909 AE Principal display Panel CAREONE complete beauty lotion UVA and UVB protection plus vitamin E + C broad spectrum spf 15 sunscreen 4 . 0 fl oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
