DESCRIPTION Naloxone hydrochloride , a narcotic antagonist , is a synthetic congener of oxymorphone .
In structure it differs from oxymorphone in that the methyl group on the nitrogen atom is replaced by an allyl group .
17 - Allyl - 4 , 5 a - epoxy - 3 , 14 - dihydroxymorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride C19H21NO4 • HCl 363 . 84 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Naloxone hydrochloride occurs as a white to slightly off - white powder , and is soluble in water , in dilute acids , and in strong alkali ; slightly soluble in alcohol ; practically insoluble in ether and in chloroform .
Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection is available as a non - preserved sterile solution for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous administration , in the 0 . 4 mg / mL and 1 mg / mL concentrations .
Each mL of the 0 . 4 mg strength contains 8 . 6 mg of sodium chloride .
Each mL of the 1 mg strength contains 8 . 35 mg of sodium chloride .
The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid to meet USP limits of 3 . 0 to 4 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naloxone hydrochloride prevents or reverses the effects of opioids , including respiratory depression , sedation , and hypotension .
Also , it can reverse the psychotomimetic and dysphoric effects of agonist - antagonist such as pentazocine .
Naloxone hydrochloride is an essentially pure narcotic antagonist , i . e . , it does not possess the " agonistic " or morphine - like properties characteristic of other narcotic antagonists ; naloxone does not produce respiratory depression , psychotomimetic effects or pupillary constriction .
In the absence of narcotics or agonistic effects of other narcotic antagonists it exhibits essentially no pharmacologic activity .
Naloxone has not been shown to produce tolerance nor to cause physical or psychological dependence .
In the presence of physical dependence on narcotics naloxone will produce withdrawal symptoms .
Mechanisms of Action While the mechanism of action of naloxone is not fully understood , the preponderance of evidence suggests that naloxone antagonizes the opioid effects by competing for the same receptor sites .
When naloxone hydrochloride is administered intravenously the onset of action is generally apparent within two minutes ; the onset of action is only slightly less rapid when it is administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
The duration of action is dependent upon the dose and route of administration of naloxone hydrochloride .
Intramuscular administration produces a more prolonged effect than intravenous administration .
The requirement for repeat doses of naloxone , however , will also be dependent upon the amount , type and route of administration of the narcotic being antagonized .
Following parenteral administration naloxone hydrochloride is rapidly distributed in the body .
It is metabolized in the liver , primarily by glucuronide conjugation , and excreted in urine .
In one study the serum half - life in adults ranged from 30 to 81 minutes ( mean 64 ± 12 minutes ) .
In a neonatal study the mean plasma half - life was observed to be 3 . 1 ± 0 . 5 hours .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Naloxone hydrochloride injection is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of narcotic depression , including respiratory depression , induced by opioids including natural and synthetic narcotics , propoxyphene , methadone and certain narcotic - antagonist analgesics : nalbuphine , pentazocine and butorphanol .
Naloxone hydrochloride is also indicated for the diagnosis of suspected acute opioid overdosage .
Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be useful as an adjunctive agent to increase blood pressure in the management of septic shock .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naloxone hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to it .
WARNINGS Naloxone hydrochloride should be administered cautiously to persons including newborns of mothers who are known or suspected to be physically dependent on opioids .
In such cases an abrupt and complete reversal of narcotic effects may precipitate an acute abstinence syndrome .
The patient who has satisfactorily responded to naloxone should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of naloxone should be administered , as necessary , since the duration of action of some narcotics may exceed that of naloxone .
Naloxone is not effective against respiratory depression due to non - opioid drugs .
Reversal of buprenorphineinduced respiratory depression may be incomplete .
If an incomplete response occurs , respirations should be mechanically assisted .
PRECAUTIONS In addition to naloxone , other resuscitative measures such as maintenance of a free airway , artificial ventilation , cardiac massage , and vasopressor agents should be available and employed when necessary to counteract acute narcotic poisoning .
Several instances of hypotension , hypertension , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , and pulmonary edema have been reported .
These have occurred in postoperative patients , most of whom had pre - existing cardiovascular disorders or received other drugs which may have similar adverse cardiovascular effects .
Although a direct cause - and - effect relationship has not been established , naloxone should be used with caution in patients with pre - existing cardiac disease or patients who have received potentially cardiotoxic drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been performed with naloxone hydrochloride .
Reproductive studies in mice and rats demonstrated no impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in mice and rats at doses up to 1 , 000 times the human dose revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naloxone .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , naloxone hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether naloxone is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when naloxone is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Abrupt reversal of narcotic depression may result in nausea , vomiting , sweating , tachycardia , increased blood pressure , tremulousness , seizures and cardiac arrest .
In postoperative patients , Iarger than necessary dosages of naloxone hydrochloride may result in significant reversal of analgesia , and in excitement .
Hypotension , hypertension , ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , and pulmonary edema have been associated with the use of naloxone postoperatively .
( See " PRECAUTIONS " and " Usage in Adults , Postoperative Narcotic Depression . " )
OVERDOSAGE There is no clinical experience with naloxone hydrochloride overdosage in humans .
In the mouse and rat the intravenous LD50 is 150 ± 5 mg / kg and 109 ± 4 mg / kg respectively .
In acute subcutaneous toxicity studies in newborn rats the LD50 ( 95 % CL ) is 260 ( 228 – 296 ) mg / kg .
Subcutaneous injection of 100 mg / kg / day in rats for 3 weeks produced only transient salivation and partial ptosis following injection : no toxic effects were seen at 10 mg / kg / day for 3 weeks .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be administered intravenously , intramuscularly , or subcutaneously .
The most rapid onset of action is achieved by intravenous administration , and it is recommended in emergency situations .
Since the duration of action of some narcotics may exceed that of naloxone , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of naloxone should be administered , as necessary .
Intravenous Infusion Naloxone hydrochloride injection may be diluted for intravenous infusion in Sodium Chloride Injection 0 . 9 % or Dextrose Injection 5 % .
The addition of 2 mg of naloxone in 500 mL of either solution provides a concentration of 0 . 004 mg / mL .
Mixtures should be used within 24 hours .
After 24 hours , the remaining unused solution must be discarded .
The rate of administration should be titrated in accordance with the patient ' s response .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Naloxone hydrochloride injection should not be mixed with preparations containing bisulfite , metabisulfite , long - chain or high - molecular - weight anions , or any solution having an alkaline pH . No drug or chemical agent should be added to naloxone hydrochloride injection unless its effect on the chemical and physical stability of the solution has first been established .
USAGE IN ADULTS Narcotic Overdose — Known or Suspected An initial dose of 0 . 4 mg to 2 mg of naloxone hydrochloride may be administered intravenously .
If the desired degree of counteraction and improvement in respiratory functions is not obtained , it may be repeated at 2 to 3 minute intervals .
If no response is observed after 10 mg of naloxone hydrochloride have been administered , the diagnosis of narcotic - induced or partial narcotic - induced toxicity should be questioned .
Intramuscular or subcutaneous administration may be necessary if the intravenous route is not available .
Postoperative Narcotic Depression For the partial reversal of narcotic depression following the use of narcotics during surgery , smaller doses of naloxone hydrochloride are usually sufficient .
The dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be titrated according to the patients response .
Naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg intravenously at two to three minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal — i . e . , adequate ventilation and alertness without significant pain or discomfort .
Larger than necessary dosage of naloxone may result in significant reversal of analgesia and increase in blood pressure .
Similarly , too rapid reversal may induce nausea , vomiting , sweating , or circulatory stress .
Repeat doses of naloxone may be required within one - to two - hour intervals depending upon the amount , type ( i . e . , short - or longacting ) and time interval since last administration of narcotic .
Supplemental intramuscular doses have been shown to produce a longer lasting effect .
USAGE IN CHILDREN Narcotic Overdose — Known or Suspected The usual initial dose in children is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight given I . V .
If this dose does not result in the desired degree of clinical improvement , a subsequent dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg body weight may be administered .
If an I . V . route of administration is not available , naloxone may be administered I . M . or S . C . in divided doses .
If necessary , naloxone hydrochloride injection can be diluted with sterile water for injection .
Postoperative Narcotic Depression Follow the recommendations and cautions under " Adult Postoperative Depression . "
For the initial reversal of respiratory depression naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0 . 005 mg to 0 . 01 mg intravenously at two - to three - minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal .
USAGE IN NEONATES When using naloxone hydrochloride injection in Neonates a product containing 0 . 02 mg / mL should be used .
Narcotic - Induced Depression The usual initial dose is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight administered I . V . , I . M . , or S . C .
This dose may be repeated in accordance with adult administration guidelines for postoperative narcotic depression .
HOW SUPPLIED Available as follows : 1 mg / mL 2 mL single dose disposable Luer - Jet ™ Luer - Lock Prefilled Syringe .
Shrink Wrapped Packages of 20 NDC 54868 - 6259 - 0 ( contains no preservative ) Syringe Assembly Directions The MIN - I - JET ® syringe with needle , illustrated below , is the basic unit upon which all the other syringe systems are built ; slight adaptations and / or additional auxiliary parts createthe other syringe systems .
Assembly directions remain essentially the same .
USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Protect from light .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Rx Only INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED SO .
EL MONTE , CA 91733 , U . S . A An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company 6914660 M REV . 8 - 01 Relabeling of " Additional " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Naloxone Hydrochloride injection USP 1 mg / mL ( 2 mL x 10 PFS ) NDC 54868 - 6256 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
