RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Contraindications , Pregnancy ( 4 ) Removed 01 / 2023 Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasms ( 5 . 11 ) 04 / 2022 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs , including SEASONIQUE , are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
• Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SEASONIQUE ® is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
SEASONIQUE is a combination of levonorgestrel , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Start and Take SEASONIQUE Begin SEASONIQUE on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , take the first light blue - green tablet that day .
For each 91 - day course , take in the following order : 1 .
Start the first light blue - green tablet on the first Sunday after onset of menstruation .
Then take one light blue - green tablet daily for 84 consecutive days .
Use a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until a light blue - green tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days .
2 .
Then take one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Bleeding should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken .
Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which the patient began her first dose of SEASONIQUE , following the same schedule : 84 days taking a light blue - green tablet followed by 7 days taking a yellow tablet .
If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack , instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until she has taken a light blue - green tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
Switching to SEASONIQUE from another oral hormonal contraceptive or from another contraceptive method ( transdermal patch , vaginal ring , injection , intrauterine contraceptive , implant ) Start on the Sunday after the patient ’ s next period starts .
Use additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light blue - green tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Starting SEASONIQUE after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester SEASONIQUE may be started on the Sunday after an abortion or miscarriage .
The patient must use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light blue - green tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Second - trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with SEASONIQUE following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light blue - green tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Starting SEASONIQUE after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with SEASONIQUE following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until the patient has taken a light blue - green tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of SEASONIQUE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosing SEASONIQUE Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
The dosage of SEASONIQUE is one light blue - green tablet daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by one yellow tablet daily for 7 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , SEASONIQUE must be taken exactly as directed , in the order directed , and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly .
2 . 3 Missed Doses Table 1 .
Instructions for Missed SEASONIQUE Tablets If one light blue - green tablet is missed Take the missed tablet as soon as possible .
Take the next tablet at the regular time .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
A back - up birth control method is not required if the patient has sex .
If two light blue - green tablet in a row are missed Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible , and the next two tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Use additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets .
If three or more light blue - green pills in a row are missed Throw away the missed pills .
Continue taking one tablet every day as indicated on the pack until the pack is finished .
Bleeding may occur during the week following the missed tablets .
Use additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets .
If any of the seven yellow tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets .
Continue taking the remaining tablets until the pack is finished .
A backup birth control method is not needed .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of prolonged vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS SEASONIQUE tablets ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : 84 light blue - green tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The light blue - green tablets are round , film - coated , biconvex , unscored tablets debossed with stylized b on one side and 555 on the other side .
The yellow tablets are round , biconvex , film - coated , unscored tablets debossed with stylized b on one side and 556 on the other side .
SEASONIQUE consists of 84 light blue - green tablets containing 0 . 15 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include females who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35 , diabetes mellitus with hypertension or with vascular disease or other end - organ damage , or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms , migraine headaches with aura , or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• Liver tumors , acute viral hepatitis , or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease , acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop if a thrombotic or thromboembolic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
Consider cardiovascular risk factors before initiating in all females , particularly those over 35 years .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypertension : If used in females with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 3 ) • Gallbladder disease : May cause or worsen gallbladder disease .
( 5 . 6 ) • Adverse carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor glucose in prediabetic and diabetic women taking SEASONIQUE .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 7 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • Uterine bleeding : May cause irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
Evaluate for other causes if symptoms persist .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions • Stop SEASONIQUE if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic / thrombembolic event occurs .
• Stop SEASONIQUE if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• Discontinue SEASONIQUE during prolonged immobilization .
If feasible , stop SEASONIQUE at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery , or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
• Start SEASONIQUE no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• Before starting SEASONIQUE evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy .
SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women with a high risk of arterial or venous / thromboembolic diseases [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Arterial Events COCs increase the risk of cardiovascular events and cerebrovascular events , such as myocardial infarction and stroke .
The risk is greater among older women ( > 35 years of age ) , smokers , and females with hypertension , dyslipidemia , diabetes , or obesity .
SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
Venous Events Use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolic events ( VTEs ) , such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism .
Risk factors for VTEs include smoking , obesity , and family history of VTE , in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of CHCs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of COCs is well - established , the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy , and especially during the postpartum period ( see Figure 1 ) .
The rate of VTE in females using COCs has been estimated to be 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of four weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for women who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives , for women who use oral contraceptives , and for women in the postpartum period .
To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective : If 10 , 000 women who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives are followed for one year , between 1 and 5 of these women will develop a VTE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Use of SEASONIQUE provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly oral contraceptives containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 and 13 weeks of exposure to progestin and estrogen , respectively , per year ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 2 Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women with acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute liver test abnormalities may necessitate the discontinuation of SEASONIQUE until the liver tests return to normal and SEASONIQUE causation has been excluded .
Discontinue SEASONIQUE if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women with benign or malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
COCs increase the risk of hepatic adenomas .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death from abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
The attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Hypertension SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For all women , including those with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop SEASONIQUE if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The effect of COCs on blood pressure may vary according to the progestin in the COC .
5 . 4 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as SEASONIQUE .
Discontinue SEASONIQUE prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
SEASONIQUE can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 5 Age - related Considerations The risk for cardiovascular disease and prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease increases with age .
Certain conditions , such as smoking and migraine headache without aura , that do not contraindicate COC use in younger females , are contraindications to use in women over 35 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE , particularly before initiating a COC for women over 35 years , such as : • Hypertension • Diabetes • Dyslipidemia • Obesity 5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs , including SEASONIQUE , may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Females with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
5 . 7 Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35 , or females who have diabetes with hypertension , nephropathy , retinopathy , neuropathy , other vascular disease , or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
SEASONIQUE may decrease glucose tolerance .
Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking SEASONIQUE .
Dyslipidemia Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
SEASONIQUE may cause adverse lipid changes .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using SEASONIQUE , which may increase the risk of pancreatitis .
5 . 8 Headache SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura , and in women over 35 years of age who have migraine headaches with or without aura [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If a woman taking SEASONIQUE develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue SEASONIQUE if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of SEASONIQUE if there is an increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Women using SEASONIQUE may experience unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting , especially during the first 3 months of use .
Bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or by changing to a different contraceptive product .
If unscheduled bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , evaluate for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
When prescribing SEASONIQUE , the occurrence of fewer planned menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) should be weighed against the occurrence of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
The primary clinical trial ( PSE - 301 ) that evaluated the efficacy of SEASONIQUE also assessed unscheduled bleeding .
The participants in the 12 - month clinical trial ( N = 1 , 006 ) completed the equivalent of 8 , 681 28 - day cycles of exposure and were composed primarily of women who had used oral contraceptives previously ( 89 % ) as opposed to new users ( 11 % ) .
A total of 82 ( 8 . 2 % ) of the women discontinued SEASONIQUE , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly constant over time , with an average of 3 days of bleeding and / or spotting per each 91 - day cycle .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 1 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 2 presents the number of days with unscheduled spotting in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 2 : Total Number of Days with Unscheduled Bleeding Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding 91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 1 4 10 6 . 9 1 . 7 4 th 0 1 4 3 . 2 0 . 8 Table 3 : Total Number of Days with Unscheduled Spotting Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting 91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 1 4 11 7 . 4 1 . 9 4 th 0 2 7 4 . 4 1 . 1 Figure 2 shows the percentage of SEASONIQUE subjects participating in trial PSE - 301 with ≥ 7 days or ≥ 20 days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , or only unscheduled bleeding , during each 91 - day treatment cycle .
Figure 2 : Percent of Women Taking SEASONIQUE who Reported Unscheduled Bleeding and / or Spotting or only Unscheduled Bleeding [ MULTIMEDIA ] If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use SEASONIQUE may experience absence of scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding , even if they are not pregnant .
If scheduled bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
After discontinuation of SEASONIQUE , amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea may occur , especially if these conditions were pre - existent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue SEASONIQUE if depression recurs to a serious degree .
Data on the association of COCs with the onset of depression or exacerbation of existing depression are limited .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of SEASONIQUE may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Hereditary Angioedema In females with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens , including SEASONIQUE , may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary angioedema .
5 . 14 Chloasma Chloasma may occur with SEASONIQUE use , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Advise women with a history of chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using SEASONIQUE .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in clinical trials for SEASONIQUE are irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding , weight gain , and acne .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 888 - 483 - 8279 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical trial that evaluated the safety and efficacy of SEASONIQUE was a 12 - month , randomized , multicenter , open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 - 40 , of whom 1 , 006 took at least one dose of SEASONIQUE .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : 16 . 3 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % of women ) leading to discontinuation were irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding ( 5 . 9 % ) , weight gain ( 2 . 4 % ) , mood changes ( 1 . 5 % ) , and acne ( 1 . 0 % ) .
Common Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % of women ) : irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding ( 17 % ) , weight gain ( 5 % ) , acne ( 5 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : migraine , cholecystitis , cholelithiasis , pancreatitis , abdominal pain , and major depressive disorder .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 - 1 . 12 ( Figure 3 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 3 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 - 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 3 : Relevant Studies of Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptives [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of SEASONIQUE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency of establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal distension , vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , fatigue , malaise , edema peripheral , pain Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reaction Investigations : blood pressure increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : muscle spasms , pain in extremity Nervous system disorders : dizziness , loss of consciousness Psychiatric disorders : insomnia Reproductive and breast disorders : dysmenorrhea Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : pulmonary embolism , pulmonary thrombosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia Vascular disorders : thrombosis [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available .
There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs .
However , based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs , clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested .
Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with SEASONIQUE .
Enzyme inducers ( e . g . , CYP3A4 ) : May decrease the effectiveness of SEASONIQUE or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with SEASONIQUE .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs : Table 4 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with SEASONIQUE .
Table 4 : Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding .
Prevention or management • Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability .
Examples Aprepitant , barbiturates , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin , rifampin , rifabutin , rufinamide , topiramate , products containing St . John ’ s worta , and certain protease inhibitors ( see separate section on protease inhibitors below ) .
Colesevelam Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding , depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the CHC .
Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction .
a Induction potency of St . John ’ s wort may vary widely based on preparation .
Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with some HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ) , some HCV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ) , and some non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , nevirapine ) .
In contrast , significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ) and with other non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , etravirine ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 5 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co - administered with SEASONIQUE .
Table 5 : Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co - Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
• Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control .
Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary .
Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine .
Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid - binding and cortisol - binding globulin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol - containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) .
Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Co - administration of SEASONIQUE with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Co - administration of SEASONIQUE and glecaprevir / pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations .
7 . 4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Discontinue if pregnancy occurs .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Advise use of another method ; SEASONIQUE is not recommended for nursing mothers ; may decrease milk production .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is no use for contraception in pregnancy ; therefore , SEASONIQUE should be discontinued during pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to COCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and / or metabolites are present in human milk .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established .
When possible , advise the nursing woman to use other methods of contraception until she discontinues breastfeeding [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for SEASONIQUE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from SEASONIQUE or the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of SEASONIQUE have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of SEASONIQUE before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use SEASONIQUE has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of SEASONIQUE .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
SEASONIQUE is contraindicated in females with acute hepatitis or severe decompensated cirrhosis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause uterine bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION SEASONIQUE ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is an extended - cycle oral contraceptive consisting of 84 light blue - green tablets each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , a synthetic progestogen and 0 . 03 mg of ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The structural formulas for the active components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 4 Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - , ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 4 Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
Each light blue - green tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 / Sunset yellow aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Each yellow tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 / Sunset yellow aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs prevent pregnancy primarily by suppressing ovulation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours after SEASONIQUE administration .
Levonorgestrel is completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is approximately 43 % .
The daily exposure to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol on Day 21 , corresponding to the end of a typical 3 - week contraceptive regimen , and on Day 84 , at the end of an extended cycle regimen , were similar .
There was no additional accumulation of ethinyl estradiol after dosing a 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol tablet during Days 84 - 91 .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of SEASONIQUE following a single dose of one levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol combination tablet , for 84 days , in normal healthy women are reported in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters for SEASONIQUE during Daily One Tablet Dosing for 84 Days AUC0 - 24 hr ( mean ± SD ) Cmax ( mean ± SD ) Tmax ( mean ± SD ) Levonorgestrel Day 1 18 . 2 ± 6 . 1 ng • hr / mL 3 . 0 ± 1 . 0 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 21 64 . 4 ± 25 . 1 ng • hr / mL 6 . 2 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 hours Day 84 60 . 2 ± 24 . 6 ng • hr / mL 5 . 5 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours Ethinyl Estradiol Day 1 509 . 3 ± 172 . 0 pg • hr / mL 69 . 8 ± 26 pg / mL 1 . 5 ± 0 . 3 hours Day 21 837 . 1 ± 271 . 2 pg • hr / mL 99 . 6 ± 31 pg / mL 1 . 5 ± 0 . 3 hours Day 84 791 . 5 ± 215 . 0 pg • hr / mL 91 . 3 ± 32 pg / mL 1 . 6 ± 0 . 3 hours The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol absorption following oral administration of SEASONIQUE has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol are reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg and 4 . 3 L / kg , respectively .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 - 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 95 - 97 % bound to serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Following repeated daily dosing of levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol oral contraceptives , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased SHBG levels that are induced by ethinyl estradiol , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate and to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol involves formation of ethinyl estradiol - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed ethinyl estradiol by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
The terminal elimination half - life for levonorgestrel after a single dose of SEASONIQUE was about 34 hours .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and it undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
The terminal elimination half - life of ethinyl estradiol after a single dose of SEASONIQUE was found to be about 18 hours .
Race The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of SEASONIQUE has not been evaluated .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month , multicenter , randomized , open - label clinical trial , 1 , 006 women aged 18 - 40 were studied to assess the safety and efficacy of SEASONIQUE , completing the equivalent of 8 , 681 28 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was : Caucasian ( 80 % ) , African - American ( 11 % ) , Hispanic ( 5 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 2 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range of those women treated was 91 to 360 lbs . , with a mean weight of 156 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 63 % were current or recent hormonal contraceptive users , 26 % were prior users ( who had used hormonal contraceptives in the past but not in the 6 months prior to enrollment ) , and 11 % were new starts .
Of treated women , 14 . 8 % were lost to follow - up , 16 . 3 % discontinued due to an adverse event , and 12 . 9 % discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women aged 18 - 35 years was 1 . 34 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 54 - 2 . 75 ) , based on 7 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and within 14 days after the last combination pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes patients who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied SEASONIQUE tablets ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers ( NDC 51285 - 087 - 87 ) , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : 84 light blue - green tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The light blue - green tablets are round , film - coated , biconvex , unscored tablets debossed with stylized b on one side and 555 on the other side .
The yellow tablets are round , biconvex , film - coated , unscored tablets debossed with stylized b on one side and 556 on the other side .
Box of 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers NDC 51285 - 087 - 87 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15ºC to 30ºC ( 59ºF to 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : Cigarette Smoking Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use .
Women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use SEASONIQUE [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Venous Thromboembolism Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater interruption in intake ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use during Pregnancy Instruct females to stop further intake of SEASONIQUE if pregnancy is confirmed during treatment .
Sexually Transmitted Infections SEASONIQUE does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
Dosing and Missed Pill Instructions Patients should take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
See , “ What to do if you miss pills ” section of FDA - Approved Instructions for Use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Need for Additional Contraception Postpartum females who have not yet had a period when they start SEASONIQUE need to use an additional method of contraception until they have taken a light blue - green tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
There is a need to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with SEASONIQUE [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation SEASONIQUE may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
When possible , nursing women should use other methods of contraception until they have discontinued breastfeeding [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Amenorrhea and Possible Symptoms of Pregnancy Amenorrhea may occur .
Advise patients to contact a healthcare provider in the event of amenorrhea with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Fertility Following Discontinuation of SEASONIQUE Resumption of pre - treatment ovarian function is expected , generally within 8 weeks after discontinuation of SEASONIQUE .
Depression Depressed mood and depression may occur .
Women should contact their healthcare provider if mood changes and depressive symptoms occur , including shortly after initiating the treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 SEAQ - 002 Rev . 01 / 2023 © 2023 Teva Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
FDA - Approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION SEASONIQUE ® ( seez - un - eek ) ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use SEASONIQUE if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is the most important information I should know about SEASONIQUE ?
Do not use SEASONIQUE if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is SEASONIQUE ?
SEASONIQUE is a birth control pill ( hormonal contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called levonorgestrel .
SEASONIQUE does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How Does SEASONIQUE Work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a single clinical study lasting 12 months , 1 to 3 women , out of 100 women , may get pregnant during the first year they use SEASONIQUE .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who Should Not Take SEASONIQUE ?
Do not take SEASONIQUE if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • have or had blood clots in your arms , legs , eyes or lungs • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • have or had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine or have high blood pressure with blood vessel problems • have diabetes and are over the age of 35 ; have diabetes with high blood pressure ; kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage ; or for more than 20 years • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over the age of 35 • have or had breast cancer • have liver disease , including liver tumors • have unexplained vaginal bleeding • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood .
Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy .
If any of these conditions happen to you while you are taking SEASONIQUE , stop taking SEASONIQUE right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking SEASONIQUE .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking SEASONIQUE ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are scheduled for surgery .
SEASONIQUE may increase your risk of blood clots after surgery .
You should stop taking SEASONIQUE at least 4 weeks before you have surgery and not restart SEASONIQUE until at least 2 weeks after your surgery .
• are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
SEASONIQUE may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in SEASONIQUE may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the conditions listed in , “ Who should not take SEASONIQUE ” above .
Your healthcare provider may recommend another method of birth control .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Use a back - up or alternative birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your physician may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take SEASONIQUE ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the most serious risks of taking birth control pills ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age over 35 years old .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( thrombophlebitis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) Women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider to check your blood pressure regularly .
• Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs What are common side effects of birth control pills ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat levels in the blood • Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight changes This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 ‑ 800 - FDA - 1088 .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
What else should I know about taking SEASONIQUE ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking SEASONIQUE .
Certain blood tests may be affected by SEASONIQUE .
• Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
• Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
• You should stop SEASONIQUE at least four weeks before you have major surgery and not restart it for at least two weeks after the surgery , due to an increased risk of blood clots .
• If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like SEASONIQUE , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like condoms or a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
How should I store SEASONIQUE ?
• Store SEASONIQUE at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep SEASONIQUE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about SEASONIQUE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use SEASONIQUE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SEASONIQUE to anyone else .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about SEASONIQUE .
If you have concerns or questions , ask your healthcare provider .
You may also ask your healthcare providers for a more detailed label written for medical professionals .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills cause breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking SEASONIQUE ?
When you take SEASONIQUE , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should expect to have 4 scheduled periods per year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 yellow pills ) .
Each period is likely to last about 3 days .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
During the first SEASONIQUE 91 - day treatment cycle , about 3 in 10 women may have 20 or more days of unplanned bleeding or spotting .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with time .
Do not stop taking SEASONIQUE because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
What if I miss my scheduled period when taking SEASONIQUE ?
You should consider the possibility that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the days that you are taking yellow tablets ) .
Since scheduled periods are less frequent when you are taking SEASONIQUE , notify your healthcare provider that you have missed your period and that you are taking SEASONIQUE .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider evaluates you to determine if you are pregnant .
Stop taking SEASONIQUE if it is determined that you are pregnant .
What are the ingredients in SEASONIQUE ?
Active ingredients : Light blue - green tablets : levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol Yellow tablets : ethinyl estradiol Inactive ingredients : Light blue - green tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 / Sunset yellow aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Yellow tablets : anhydrous lactose , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow no . 6 / Sunset yellow aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE SEASONIQUE ( seez - un - eek ) ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) How do I take SEASONIQUE ?
• Take one pill every day at the same time .
If you miss pills you could get pregnant .
This includes starting the pack late .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• Many women have spotting or light bleeding or may feel sick to their stomach during the first few months of taking SEASONIQUE .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• If you have trouble remembering to take SEASONIQUE , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
Beforeyou start taking SEASONIQUE 1 .
Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
2 .
Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
Your Tablet Dispenser consists of 3 trays with cards that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 84 light blue - green and 7 yellow pills .
Trays 1 and 2 each contain 28 light blue - green pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) .
Tray 3 contains 35 pills consisting of 28 light blue - green pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 yellow pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Also find : • Where on the first tray in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner at the start arrow ) and • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks and arrow ) .
4 .
Be sure you have ready at all times another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
If you are switching from another birth control method : If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the “ patch , ” or the “ vaginal ring ” ) , you need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken SEASONIQUE for 7 days .
If you have recently given birth and have not yet had a period , use another method of birth control if you have sex ( such as condoms and spermicides ) as a back - up method until you have taken SEASONIQUE for 7 days .
When to start SEASONIQUE • Take the first light blue - green pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first light blue - green pill that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first light blue - green pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the “ patch , ” or the “ vaginal ring ” ) , you need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken SEASONIQUE for 7 days .
How to take SEASONIQUE 1 .
Take one pill at the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the tablet dispenser .
• Do not skip pills even if you are experiencing spotting or bleeding or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
2 .
When you finish a tablet dispenser • After taking the last yellow pill , start taking the first light blue - green pill from a new Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser the very next day ( this should be on a Sunday ) regardless of when your period started .
3 .
If you miss your scheduled period when you are taking the yellow pills , contact your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you are pregnant , you should stop taking SEASONIQUE .
What to do if you miss pills If you MISS 1 light blue - green pill : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you MISS 2 light blue - green pills in a row : • Take 2 pills on the day you remember , and 2 pills the next day .
• Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You MUST use another birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back up for the 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE light blue - green pills in a row : • Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day as indicated on the pack until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example : If you resume taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under “ Thursday ” and do not take the missed pills .
You may experience bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
• You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the yellow pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you MISS ANY of the 7 yellow pills : • Throw away the missed pills .
• Keep taking the scheduled pills until the pack is finished .
• You do not need a back - up method of birth control .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed • Use a back - up method anytime you have sex .
• Keep taking one pill each day until you contact your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 SEAQPL - 002 Revised : 01 / 2023 © 2023 Teva Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 1 of 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , 91 Tablets Each NDC 51285 - 087 - 87 SEASONIQUE ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 15 / 30 mcg tablets and ethinyl estradiol 10 mcg tablets ) Rx only TEVA Distributed by : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel , Part 2 of 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
