1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANORO ELLIPTA is indicated for the maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Limitations of Use ANORO ELLIPTA is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma .
The safety and effectiveness of ANORO ELLIPTA in asthma have not been established .
ANORO ELLIPTA is a combination of umeclidinium , an anticholinergic , and vilanterol , a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) , indicated for the maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm or for the treatment of asthma .
( 1 , 5 . 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of ANORO ELLIPTA for maintenance treatment of COPD is 62 . 5 mcg umeclidinium and 25 mcg vilanterol ( 1 actuation of ANORO ELLIPTA 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ) once daily by oral inhalation .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA should be used at the same time every day .
Do not use ANORO ELLIPTA more than 1 time every 24 hours .
• • No dosage adjustment is required for geriatric patients , patients with renal impairment , or patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• • For oral inhalation only .
( 2 ) • • Maintenance treatment of COPD : 1 actuation of ANORO ELLIPTA once daily administered by oral inhalation .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Inhalation powder : 62 . 5 mcg umeclidinium and 25 mcg vilanterol ( 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ) per actuation .
Inhalation powder : 62 . 5 mcg umeclidinium and 25 mcg vilanterol ( 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ) per actuation .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ANORO ELLIPTA is contraindicated in : • • patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to umeclidinium , vilanterol , or any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
• • use of a long - acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) , including vilanterol , one of the active ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA , without an inhaled corticosteroid ( ICS ) , in patients with asthma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
ANORO ELLIPTA is not indicated for the treatment of asthma .
• • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or any ingredients .
( 4 ) • • Use of a LABA , including ANORO ELLIPTA , without an inhaled corticosteroid is contraindicated in patients with asthma .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • LABA monotherapy ( without an inhaled corticosteroid ) for asthma increases the risk of serious asthma - related events .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD .
Do not use to treat acute symptoms .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Do not use in combination with additional therapy containing a LABA because of risk of overdose .
( 5 . 3 ) • • If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , discontinue ANORO ELLIPTA and institute alternative therapy .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders because of beta - adrenergic stimulation .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , thyrotoxicosis , diabetes mellitus , and ketoacidosis .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma may occur .
Use with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma and instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Worsening of urinary retention may occur .
Use with caution in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction and instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) • • Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Serious Asthma - Related Events – Hospitalizations , Intubations , Death The safety and effectiveness of ANORO ELLIPTA in patients with asthma have not been established .
ANORO ELLIPTA is not indicated for the treatment of asthma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use of LABA as monotherapy ( without ICS ) for asthma is associated with an increased risk of asthma - related death .
Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma - related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients .
These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy .
When LABA are used in fixed - dose combination with ICS , data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma - related events ( hospitalizations , intubations , death ) compared with ICS alone .
Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial ( SMART ) A 28 - week , placebo - controlled , US trial that compared the safety of another LABA ( salmeterol ) with placebo , each added to usual asthma therapy , showed an increase in asthma - related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol ( 13 / 13 , 176 in subjects treated with salmeterol vs . 3 / 13 , 179 in subjects treated with placebo ; relative risk : 4 . 37 [ 95 % CI : 1 . 25 , 15 . 34 ] ) .
The increased risk of asthma - related death is considered a class effect of LABAs , including vilanterol , one of the active ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA .
No trial adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma - related death is increased in subjects treated with ANORO ELLIPTA has been conducted .
Available data do not suggest an increased risk of death with use of LABA in patients with COPD .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ANORO ELLIPTA should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life - threatening episodes of COPD .
ANORO ELLIPTA has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating COPD .
The initiation of ANORO ELLIPTA in this setting is not appropriate .
If ANORO ELLIPTA no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction ; the patient ’ s inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist becomes less effective ; or the patient needs more short - acting beta2 - agonist than usual , these may be markers of deterioration of disease .
In this setting , re - evaluate the patient and the COPD treatment regimen at once .
The daily dose of ANORO ELLIPTA should not be increased .
Increasing use of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists is a signal of deteriorating disease .
In this situation , the patient requires immediate re - evaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the need for additional therapeutic options .
Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation of ANORO ELLIPTA once daily .
ANORO ELLIPTA should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms , i . e . , as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm .
ANORO ELLIPTA has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose .
Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist .
When beginning treatment with ANORO ELLIPTA , patients who have been taking oral or inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists on a regular basis ( e . g . , 4 times a day ) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and to use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms .
When prescribing ANORO ELLIPTA , the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used .
5 . 3 Avoid Excessive Use of ANORO ELLIPTA and Avoid Use with Other Long - acting Beta2 - agonists ANORO ELLIPTA should not be used more often than recommended , at higher doses than recommended , or in conjunction with other therapies containing LABAs , as an overdose may result .
Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs .
Patients using ANORO ELLIPTA should not use another therapy containing a LABA ( e . g . , salmeterol , formoterol fumarate , arformoterol tartrate , indacaterol ) for any reason .
5 . 4 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ANORO ELLIPTA with ketoconazole and other known strong cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) inhibitors ( including , but not limited to , ritonavir , clarithromycin , conivaptan , indinavir , itraconazole , lopinavir , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir , telithromycin , troleandomycin , voriconazole ) because increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled therapies , ANORO ELLIPTA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ANORO ELLIPTA , it should be treated immediately with an inhaled , short - acting bronchodilator ; ANORO ELLIPTA should be discontinued immediately ; and alternative therapy should be instituted .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity Reactions , including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , and urticaria may occur after administration of ANORO ELLIPTA .
Discontinue ANORO ELLIPTA if such reactions occur .
There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of other powder medications containing lactose ; therefore , patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use ANORO ELLIPTA [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Cardiovascular Effects Vilanterol , like other beta2 - agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate , systolic or diastolic blood pressure , and also cardiac arrhythmias , such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles .
If such effects occur , ANORO ELLIPTA may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression , although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs .
ANORO ELLIPTA , like other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
In a 52 - week trial of subjects with COPD , the exposure - adjusted rates for any on - treatment major adverse cardiac event , including non - fatal central nervous system hemorrhages and cerebrovascular conditions , non - fatal myocardial infarction , non - fatal acute myocardial infarction , and adjudicated on - treatment death due to cardiovascular events , was 2 . 2 per 100 patient - years for fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol 100 / 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ( n = 4 , 151 ) , 1 . 9 per 100 patient - years for fluticasone furoate / vilanterol 100 / 25 mcg ( n = 4 , 134 ) , and 2 . 2 per 100 patient - years for ANORO ELLIPTA ( n = 2 , 070 ) .
Adjudicated on ‑ treatment deaths due to cardiovascular events occurred in 20 of 4 , 151 patients ( 0 . 54 per 100 patient - years ) receiving fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol , 27 of 4 , 134 patients ( 0 . 78 per 100 patient - years ) receiving fluticasone furoate / vilanterol , and 16 of 2 , 070 patients ( 0 . 94 per 100 patient - years ) receiving ANORO ELLIPTA .
5 . 8 Coexisting Conditions ANORO ELLIPTA , like all therapies containing sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Doses of the related beta2 - adrenoceptor agonist albuterol , when administered intravenously , have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 9 Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma ANORO ELLIPTA should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma .
Prescribers and patients should also be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
Instruct patients to consult a healthcare provider immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop .
5 . 10 Worsening of Urinary Retention ANORO ELLIPTA , like all therapies containing an anticholinergic , should be used with caution in patients with urinary retention .
Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , painful urination ) , especially in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder - neck obstruction .
Instruct patients to consult a healthcare provider immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop .
5 . 11 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta - adrenergic agonist therapies may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Beta - agonist therapies may produce transient hyperglycemia in some patients .
In 4 clinical trials of 6 - month duration evaluating ANORO ELLIPTA in subjects with COPD , there was no evidence of a treatment effect on serum glucose or potassium .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • • Serious asthma - related events – hospitalizations , intubations , death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Worsening of narrow - angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • • Worsening of urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % and more common than placebo ) are pharyngitis , sinusitis , lower respiratory tract infection , constipation , diarrhea , pain in extremity , muscle spasms , neck pain , and chest pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical program for ANORO ELLIPTA included 8 , 138 subjects with COPD in four 6 ‑ month lung function trials , one 12 - month long - term safety study , and 9 other trials of shorter duration .
A total of 1 , 124 subjects have received at least 1 dose of ANORO ELLIPTA ( umeclidinium / vilanterol 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ) , and 1 , 330 subjects have received a higher dose of umeclidinium / vilanterol ( 125 / 25 mcg ) .
The safety data described below are based on the four 6 - month and one 12 - month trials .
Adverse reactions observed in the other trials were similar to those observed in the confirmatory trials .
6 - Month Trials The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ANORO ELLIPTA in Table 1 is based on four 6 - month trials : 2 placebo - controlled trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) ; N = 1 , 532 and N = 1 , 489 , respectively ) and 2 active - controlled trials ( Trial 3 and Trial 4 ) ; N = 843 and N = 869 , respectively ) .
Of the 4 , 733 subjects , 68 % were male and 84 % were white .
They had a mean age of 63 years and an average smoking history of 45 pack - years , with 50 % identified as current smokers .
At screening , the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) was 48 % ( range : 13 % to 76 % ) , the mean postbronchodilator FEV1 / forced vital capacity ( FVC ) ratio was 0 . 47 ( range : 0 . 13 to 0 . 78 ) , and the mean percent reversibility was 14 % ( range : - 45 % to 109 % ) .
Subjects received 1 dose once daily of the following : ANORO ELLIPTA , umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg , umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg , umeclidinium 125 mcg , vilanterol 25 mcg , active control , or placebo .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions with ANORO ELLIPTA with ≥ 1 % Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary DiseaseAdverse Reaction ANORO ELLIPTA ( n = 842 ) % Umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg ( n = 418 ) % Vilanterol 25 mcg ( n = 1 , 034 ) % Placebo ( n = 555 ) % Infections and infestations Pharyngitis 2 1 2 < 1 Sinusitis 1 < 1 1 < 1 Lower respiratory tract infection 1 < 1 < 1 < 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 1 < 1 < 1 < 1 Diarrhea 2 < 1 2 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Pain in extremity 2 < 1 2 1 Muscle spasms 1 < 1 < 1 < 1 Neck pain 1 < 1 < 1 < 1 General disorders and administration site conditions Chest pain 1 < 1 < 1 < 1 Other adverse reactions with ANORO ELLIPTA observed with an incidence < 1 % but more common than placebo included the following : productive cough , dry mouth , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , gastroesophageal reflux disease , vomiting , musculoskeletal chest pain , chest discomfort , asthenia , atrial fibrillation , ventricular extrasystoles , supraventricular extrasystoles , myocardial infarction , pruritus , rash , and conjunctivitis .
12 - Month Trial In a long - term safety trial ( Trial 5 ) , 335 subjects were treated for up to 12 months with umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg or placebo .
The demographic and baseline characteristics of the long - term safety trial were similar to those of the placebo - controlled efficacy trials described above .
Adverse reactions observed with a frequency of ≥ 1 % in the group receiving umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg that exceeded that in placebo in this trial were : headache , back pain , sinusitis , cough , urinary tract infection , arthralgia , nausea , vertigo , abdominal pain , pleuritic pain , viral respiratory tract infection , toothache , and diabetes mellitus .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ANORO ELLIPTA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or causal connection to ANORO ELLIPTA or a combination of these factors .
Cardiac Disorders Palpitations .
Eye Disorders Blurred vision , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure .
Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and urticaria .
Nervous System Disorders Dysgeusia , tremor .
Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety .
Renal and Urinary Disorders Dysuria , urinary retention .
Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders Dysphonia , paradoxical bronchospasm .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) : Use with caution .
May cause cardiovascular effects .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants : Use with extreme caution .
May potentiate effect of vilanterol on cardiovascular system .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Beta - blockers : Use with caution .
May block bronchodilatory effects of beta - agonists and produce severe bronchospasm .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Diuretics : Use with caution .
Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with non – potassium - sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta - agonists .
( 7 . 4 ) • • Anticholinergics : May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications .
Avoid administration of ANORO ELLIPTA with other anticholinergic - containing drugs .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 .
Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole increases the systemic exposure to vilanterol .
Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ANORO ELLIPTA with ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors , Tricyclic Antidepressants , and QTc Prolonging Drugs Vilanterol , like other beta2 - agonists , should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants , or drugs known to prolong the QTc interval or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents .
Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias .
7 . 3 Beta - adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta - blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as vilanterol , but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with COPD .
Therefore , patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents for these patients ; cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 4 Non – Potassium - Sparing Diuretics The electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non – potassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with non – potassium - sparing diuretics .
7 . 5 Anticholinergics There is potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medicines .
Therefore , avoid coadministration of ANORO ELLIPTA with other anticholinergic - containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 , 5 . 10 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are insufficient data on the use of ANORO ELLIPTA or its individual components , umeclidinium and vilanterol , in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
( See Clinical Considerations . )
In animal reproduction studies , umeclidinium administered via inhalation or subcutaneously to pregnant rats and rabbits was not associated with adverse effects on embryofetal development at exposures approximately 50 and 200 times , respectively , the human exposure at the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose ( MRHDID ) .
Vilanterol administered via inhalation to pregnant rats and rabbits produced no fetal structural abnormalities at exposures approximately 70 times the MRHDID .
( See Data . )
The estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Labor or Delivery : ANORO ELLIPTA should be used during late gestation and labor only if the potential benefit justifies the potential for risks related to beta - agonists interfering with uterine contractility .
Data Animal Data : The combination of umeclidinium and vilanterol has not been studied in pregnant animals .
Studies in pregnant animals have been conducted with umeclidinium and vilanterol individually .
Umeclidinium : In separate embryofetal developmental studies , pregnant rats and rabbits received umeclidinium during the period of organogenesis at doses up to approximately 50 and 200 times the MRHDID , respectively ( on an AUC basis at maternal inhalation doses up to 278 mcg / kg / day in rats and at maternal subcutaneous doses up to 180 mcg / kg / day in rabbits ) .
No evidence of teratogenic effects was observed in either species .
In a perinatal and postnatal developmental study in rats , dams received umeclidinium during late gestation and lactation periods with no evidence of effects on offspring development at doses up to approximately 26 times the MRHDID ( on an AUC basis at maternal subcutaneous doses up to 60 mcg / kg / day ) .
Vilanterol : In separate embryofetal developmental studies , pregnant rats and rabbits received vilanterol during the period of organogenesis at doses up to approximately 13 , 000 and 450 times , respectively , the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis at maternal inhalation doses up to 33 , 700 mcg / kg / day in rats and on an AUC basis at maternal inhaled doses up to 5 , 740 mcg / kg / day in rabbits ) .
No evidence of structural abnormalities was observed at any dose in rats or in rabbits up to approximately 70 times the MRHDID ( on an AUC basis at maternal doses up to 591 mcg / kg / day in rabbits ) .
However , fetal skeletal variations were observed in rabbits at approximately 450 times the MRHDID ( on an AUC basis at maternal inhaled or subcutaneous doses of 5 , 740 or 300 mcg / kg / day , respectively ) .
The skeletal variations included decreased or absent ossification in cervical vertebral centrum and metacarpals .
In a perinatal and postnatal developmental study in rats , dams received vilanterol during late gestation and the lactation periods at doses up to approximately 3 , 900 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis at maternal oral doses up to 10 , 000 mcg / kg / day ) .
No evidence of effects in offspring development was observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of umeclidinium or vilanterol in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Umeclidinium was detected in the plasma of offspring of lactating rats treated with umeclidinium suggesting its presence in maternal milk .
( See Data . )
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ANORO ELLIPTA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from umeclidinium or vilanterol or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Subcutaneous administration of umeclidinium to lactating rats at greater than or equal to 60 mcg / kg / day resulted in a quantifiable level of umeclidinium in 2 of 54 pups , which may indicate transfer of umeclidinium in rat milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ANORO ELLIPTA have not been established in pediatric patients .
ANORO ELLIPTA is not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Based on available data , no adjustment of the dosage of ANORO ELLIPTA in geriatric patients is necessary , but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Clinical trials of ANORO ELLIPTA for COPD included 2 , 143 subjects aged 65 years and older and 478 subjects aged 75 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 7 - 9 ) showed no relevant increases in Cmax or AUC , nor did protein binding differ between subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and their healthy controls .
Studies in subjects with severe hepatic impairment have not been performed [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment There were no significant increases in either umeclidinium or vilanterol exposure in subjects with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) compared with healthy subjects .
No dosage adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE ANORO ELLIPTA contains both umeclidinium and vilanterol ; therefore , the risks associated with overdosage for the individual components described below apply to ANORO ELLIPTA .
Treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of ANORO ELLIPTA together with institution of appropriate symptomatic and / or supportive therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medicine can produce bronchospasm .
Cardiac monitoring is recommended in cases of overdosage .
Umeclidinium High doses of umeclidinium may lead to anticholinergic signs and symptoms .
Vilanterol The expected signs and symptoms with overdosage of vilanterol are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the signs and symptoms of beta - adrenergic stimulation ( e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , muscle cramps , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , insomnia , hyperglycemia , hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis ) .
As with all inhaled sympathomimetic medicines , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with an overdose of vilanterol .
11 DESCRIPTION ANORO ELLIPTA is an inhalation powder drug product for delivery of a combination of umeclidinium ( an anticholinergic ) and vilanterol ( a LABA ) to patients by oral inhalation .
Umeclidinium bromide has the chemical name 1 - [ 2 - ( benzyloxy ) ethyl ] - 4 - ( hydroxydiphenylmethyl ) - 1 - azoniabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] octane bromide and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Umeclidinium bromide is a white powder with a molecular weight of 508 . 5 , and the empirical formula is C29H34NO2 • Br ( as a quaternary ammonium bromide compound ) .
It is slightly soluble in water .
Vilanterol trifenatate has the chemical name triphenylacetic acid - 4 - { ( 1 R ) - 2 - [ ( 6 - { 2 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dicholorobenzyl ) oxy ] ethoxy } hexyl ) amino ] - 1 - hydroxyethyl } - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) phenol ( 1 : 1 ) and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vilanterol trifenatate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 774 . 8 , and the empirical formula is C24H33Cl2NO5 • C20H16O2 .
It is practically insoluble in water .
ANORO ELLIPTA is a light grey and red plastic inhaler containing 2 foil blister strips .
Each blister on one strip contains a white powder blend of micronized umeclidinium bromide ( 74 . 2 mcg equivalent to 62 . 5 mcg of umeclidinium ) , magnesium stearate ( 75 mcg ) , and lactose monohydrate ( to 12 . 5 mg ) , and each blister on the other strip contains a white powder blend of micronized vilanterol trifenatate ( 40 mcg equivalent to 25 mcg of vilanterol ) , magnesium stearate ( 125 mcg ) , and lactose monohydrate ( to 12 . 5 mg ) .
The lactose monohydrate contains milk proteins .
After the inhaler is activated , the powder within both blisters is exposed and ready for dispersion into the airstream created by the patient inhaling through the mouthpiece .
Under standardized in vitro test conditions , ANORO ELLIPTA delivers 55 mcg of umeclidinium and 22 mcg of vilanterol per dose when tested at a flow rate of 60 L / min for 4 seconds .
In adult subjects with obstructive lung disease and severely compromised lung function ( COPD with FEV1 / FVC < 70 % and FEV1 < 30 % predicted or FEV1 < 50 % predicted plus chronic respiratory failure ) , mean peak inspiratory flow through the ELLIPTA inhaler was 66 . 5 L / min ( range : 43 . 5 to 81 . 0 L / min ) .
The actual amount of drug delivered to the lung will depend on patient factors , such as inspiratory flow profile .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ANORO ELLIPTA ANORO ELLIPTA contains both umeclidinium and vilanterol .
The mechanisms of action described below for the individual components apply to ANORO ELLIPTA .
These drugs represent 2 different classes of medications ( an anticholinergic and a LABA ) each having different effects on clinical and physiological indices .
Umeclidinium Umeclidinium is a long - acting muscarinic antagonist , which is often referred to as an anticholinergic .
It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M1 to M5 .
In the airways , it exhibits pharmacological effects through inhibition of M3 receptor at the smooth muscle leading to bronchodilation .
The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was shown with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations .
In preclinical in vitro as well as in vivo studies , prevention of methacholine - and acetylcholine - induced bronchoconstrictive effects was dose - dependent and lasted longer than 24 hours .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
The bronchodilation following inhalation of umeclidinium is predominantly a site - specific effect .
Vilanterol Vilanterol is a LABA .
In vitro tests have shown the functional selectivity of vilanterol was similar to salmeterol .
The clinical relevance of this in vitro finding is unknown .
Although beta2 - receptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta1 - receptors are the predominant receptors in the heart , there are also beta2 - receptors in the human heart comprising 10 % to 50 % of the total beta - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established , but they raise the possibility that even highly selective beta2 - agonists may have cardiac effects .
The pharmacologic effects of beta2 - adrenergic agonist drugs , including vilanterol , are at least in part attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) to cyclic - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology Healthy Subjects : QTc interval prolongation was studied in a double - blind , multiple - dose , placebo - and positive - controlled crossover study in 86 healthy subjects .
The maximum mean ( 95 % upper confidence bound ) difference in QTcF from placebo after baseline correction was 4 . 6 ( 7 . 1 ) milliseconds and 8 . 2 ( 10 . 7 ) milliseconds for umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg and umeclidinium / vilanterol 500 / 100 mcg ( 8 / 4 times the recommended dosage ) , respectively .
A dose - dependent increase in heart rate was also observed .
The maximum mean ( 95 % upper confidence bound ) difference in heart rate from placebo after baseline correction was 8 . 8 ( 10 . 5 ) beats / min and 20 . 5 ( 22 . 3 ) beats / min seen 10 minutes after dosing for umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg and umeclidinium / vilanterol 500 / 100 mcg , respectively .
Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease : The effect of ANORO ELLIPTA on cardiac rhythm in subjects diagnosed with COPD was assessed using 24 - hour Holter monitoring in 6 - and 12 - month trials : 53 subjects received ANORO ELLIPTA , 281 subjects received umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg , and 182 subjects received placebo .
No clinically meaningful effects on cardiac rhythm were observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Linear pharmacokinetics was observed for umeclidinium ( 62 . 5 to 500 mcg ) and vilanterol ( 25 to 100 mcg ) .
Absorption Umeclidinium : Umeclidinium plasma levels may not predict therapeutic effect .
Following inhaled administration of umeclidinium in healthy subjects , Cmax occurred at 5 to 15 minutes .
Umeclidinium is mostly absorbed from the lung after inhaled doses with minimum contribution from oral absorption .
Following repeat dosing of inhaled ANORO ELLIPTA , steady state was achieved within 14 days with up to 1 . 8 - fold accumulation .
Vilanterol : Vilanterol plasma levels may not predict therapeutic effect .
Following inhaled administration of vilanterol in healthy subjects , Cmax occurred at 5 to 15 minutes .
Vilanterol is mostly absorbed from the lung after inhaled doses with negligible contribution from oral absorption .
Following repeat dosing of inhaled ANORO ELLIPTA , steady state was achieved within 14 days with up to 1 . 7 - fold accumulation .
Distribution Umeclidinium : Following intravenous administration to healthy subjects , the mean volume of distribution was 86 L .
In vitro plasma protein binding in human plasma was on average 89 % .
Vilanterol : Following intravenous administration to healthy subjects , the mean volume of distribution at steady state was 165 L .
In vitro plasma protein binding in human plasma was on average 94 % .
Elimination Metabolism : Umeclidinium : In vitro data showed that umeclidinium is primarily metabolized by the enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) and is a substrate for the P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) transporter .
The primary metabolic routes for umeclidinium are oxidative ( hydroxylation , O - dealkylation ) followed by conjugation ( e . g . , glucuronidation ) , resulting in a range of metabolites with either reduced pharmacological activity or for which the pharmacological activity has not been established .
Systemic exposure to the metabolites is low .
Vilanterol : In vitro data showed that vilanterol is metabolized principally by CYP3A4 and is a substrate for the P - gp transporter .
Vilanterol is metabolized to a range of metabolites with significantly reduced β1 - and β2 - agonist activity .
Excretion : Umeclidinium : The effective half - life after once - daily oral dosing is 11 hours .
Following intravenous dosing with radiolabeled umeclidinium , mass balance showed 58 % of the radiolabel in the feces and 22 % in the urine .
The excretion of the drug - related material in the feces following intravenous dosing indicated elimination in the bile .
Following oral dosing to healthy male subjects , radiolabel recovered in feces was 92 % of the total dose and that in urine was < 1 % of the total dose , suggesting negligible oral absorption .
Vilanterol : The effective half - life for vilanterol , as determined from inhalation administration of multiple doses , is 11 hours .
Following oral administration of radiolabeled vilanterol , mass balance showed 70 % of the radiolabel in the urine and 30 % in the feces .
Specific Populations The effects of renal and hepatic impairment and other intrinsic factors on the pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium and vilanterol are shown in Figure 1 .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no evidence of a clinically significant effect of age ( 40 to 93 years ) ( Figure 1 ) , gender ( 69 % male ) ( Figure 1 ) , inhaled corticosteroid use ( 48 % ) , or weight ( 34 to 161 kg ) on systemic exposure of either umeclidinium or vilanterol .
In addition , there was no evidence of a clinically significant effect of race .
Figure 1 .
Impact of Intrinsic Factors on the Pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of Umeclidinium ( UMEC ) and Vilanterol ( VI ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients with Hepatic Impairment : The impact of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ANORO ELLIPTA has been evaluated in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 7 - 9 ) .
There was no evidence of an increase in systemic exposure to either umeclidinium or vilanterol ( Cmax and AUC ) ( Figure 1 ) .
There was no evidence of altered protein binding in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment compared with healthy subjects .
ANORO ELLIPTA has not been evaluated in subjects with severe hepatic impairment .
Patients with Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of ANORO ELLIPTA has been evaluated in subjects with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
Umeclidinium systemic exposure was not increased and vilanterol systemic exposure ( AUC ( 0 - 24 ) ) was 56 % higher in subjects with severe renal impairment compared with healthy subjects ( Figure 1 ) .
There was no evidence of altered protein binding in subjects with severe renal impairment compared with healthy subjects .
Drug Interaction Studies When umeclidinium and vilanterol were administered in combination by the inhaled route , the pharmacokinetic parameters for each component were similar to those observed when each active substance was administered separately .
Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 : Vilanterol is a substrate of CYP3A4 .
A double - blind , repeat - dose , 2 - way crossover drug interaction trial was conducted in healthy subjects to investigate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of vilanterol 25 mcg as an inhalation powder with ketoconazole 400 mg .
The plasma concentrations of vilanterol were higher after single and repeated doses when coadministered with ketoconazole than with placebo ( Figure 2 ) .
The increase in vilanterol exposure was not associated with an increase in beta - agonist – related systemic effects on heart rate or blood potassium .
Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 2D6 : In vitro metabolism of umeclidinium is mediated primarily by CYP2D6 .
However , no clinically meaningful difference in systemic exposure to umeclidinium ( 500 mcg ) ( 8 times the approved dose ) was observed following repeat daily inhaled dosing in CYP2D6 normal ( ultrarapid , extensive , and intermediate metabolizers ) and poor metabolizer subjects ( Figure 1 ) .
Inhibitors of P - glycoprotein : Umeclidinium and vilanterol are both substrates of P - gp .
The effect of the moderate P - gp transporter inhibitor verapamil ( 240 mg once daily ) on the steady - state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium and vilanterol was assessed in healthy subjects .
No effect on umeclidinium or vilanterol Cmax was observed ; however , an approximately 1 . 4 - fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed with no effect on vilanterol AUC ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 .
Impact of Extrinsic Factors on the Pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of Umeclidinium ( UMEC ) and Vilanterol ( VI ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ANORO ELLIPTA No studies of carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility were conducted with ANORO ELLIPTA ; however , studies are available for the individual components , umeclidinium and vilanterol , as described below .
Umeclidinium Umeclidinium produced no treatment - related increases in the incidence of tumors in 2 - year inhalation studies in rats and mice at inhaled doses up to 137 and 295 / 200 mcg / kg / day ( male / female ) , respectively ( approximately 20 and 25 / 20 times , respectively , the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
Umeclidinium tested negative in the following genotoxicity assays : the in vitro Ames assay , in vitro mouse lymphoma assay , and in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
No evidence of impairment of fertility was observed in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to 180 mcg / kg / day and at inhaled doses up to 294 mcg / kg / day , respectively ( approximately 100 and 50 times , respectively , the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
Vilanterol In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in mice , vilanterol caused a statistically significant increase in ovarian tubulostromal adenomas in females at an inhaled dose of 29 , 500 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 7 , 800 times the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
No increase in tumors was seen at an inhaled dose of 615 mcg / kg / day ( approximately 210 times the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in rats , vilanterol caused statistically significant increases in mesovarian leiomyomas in females and shortening of the latency of pituitary tumors at inhaled doses greater than or equal to 84 . 4 mcg / kg / day ( greater than or equal to approximately 20 times the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
No tumors were seen at an inhaled dose of 10 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( approximately equal to the MRHDID for adults on an AUC basis ) .
These tumor findings in rodents are similar to those reported previously for other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs .
The relevance of these findings to human use is unknown .
Vilanterol tested negative in the following genotoxicity assays : the in vitro Ames assay , in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay , in vivo rat unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) assay , and in vitro Syrian hamster embryo ( SHE ) cell assay .
Vilanterol tested equivocal in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay .
No evidence of impairment of fertility was observed in male and female rats at inhaled vilanterol doses up to 31 , 500 and 37 , 100 mcg / kg / day , respectively ( both approximately 5 , 490 times the MRHDID based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and effectiveness of ANORO ELLIPTA were evaluated in a clinical development program that included 6 dose - ranging trials , 4 lung function trials of 6 months ’ duration ( 2 placebo controlled and 2 active controlled ) , two 12 - week crossover trials , and a 12 - month long ‑ term safety trial .
The efficacy of ANORO ELLIPTA is based primarily on the dose - ranging trials in 1 , 908 subjects with COPD or asthma [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] and the 2 placebo - controlled confirmatory trials , with additional support from the 2 active - controlled and 2 crossover trials in 5 , 388 subjects with COPD , including chronic bronchitis and / or emphysema [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Evidence of efficacy for ANORO ELLIPTA on COPD exacerbations was established by the efficacy of the umeclidinium component as part of a fixed - dose combination with an ICS / LABA , as assessed in a 12 - month trial in 10 , 355 subjects [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
14 . 1 Dose - Ranging Trials Dose selection for ANORO ELLIPTA in COPD was based on dose - ranging trials for the individual components , vilanterol and umeclidinium .
Based on the findings from these studies , once - daily doses of umeclidinium / vilanterol 62 . 5 / 25 mcg and umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg were evaluated in the confirmatory COPD trials .
ANORO ELLIPTA is not indicated for asthma .
Umeclidinium Dose selection for umeclidinium in COPD was supported by a 7 - day , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover trial evaluating 4 doses of umeclidinium ( 15 . 6 to 125 mcg ) or placebo dosed once daily in the morning in 163 subjects with COPD .
A dose ordering was observed , with the 62 . 5 - and 125 - mcg doses demonstrating larger improvements in FEV1 over 24 hours compared with the lower doses of 15 . 6 and 31 . 25 mcg ( Figure 3 ) .
The differences in trough FEV1 from baseline after 7 days for placebo and the 15 . 6 - , 31 . 25 - , 62 . 5 - , and 125 - mcg doses were - 74 mL ( 95 % CI : - 118 , - 31 ) , 38 mL ( 95 % CI : - 6 , 83 ) , 27 mL ( 95 % CI : - 18 , 72 ) , 49 mL ( 95 % CI : 6 , 93 ) , and 109 mL ( 95 % CI : 65 , 152 ) , respectively .
Two additional dose - ranging trials in subjects with COPD demonstrated minimal additional benefit at doses above 125 mcg .
The dose - ranging results supported the evaluation of 2 doses of umeclidinium , 62 . 5 and 125 mcg , in the confirmatory COPD trials to further assess dose response .
Evaluations of dosing interval by comparing once - and twice - daily dosing supported selection of a once - daily dosing interval for further evaluation in the confirmatory COPD trials .
Figure 3 .
Least Squares ( LS ) Mean Change from Baseline in Postdose Serial FEV1 ( mL ) on Days 1 and 7 Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Day 7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vilanterol Dose selection for vilanterol in COPD was supported by a 28 - day , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group trial evaluating 5 doses of vilanterol ( 3 to 50 mcg ) or placebo dosed in the morning in 602 subjects with COPD .
Results demonstrated dose - related increases from baseline in FEV1 at Day 1 and Day 28 ( Figure 4 ) .
Figure 4 .
Least Squares ( LS ) Mean Change from Baseline in Postdose Serial FEV1 ( 0 - 24 h ) ( mL ) on Days 1 and 28 Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Day 28 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The differences in trough FEV1 after Day 28 from baseline for placebo and the 3 - , 6 . 25 - , 12 . 5 - , 25 - , and 50 - mcg doses were 29 mL ( 95 % CI : - 8 , 66 ) , 120 mL ( 95 % CI : 83 , 158 ) , 127 mL ( 95 % CI : 90 , 164 ) , 138 mL ( 95 % CI : 101 , 176 ) , 166 mL ( 95 % CI : 129 , 203 ) , and 194 mL ( 95 % CI : 156 , 231 ) , respectively .
These results supported the evaluation of vilanterol 25 mcg in the confirmatory trials for COPD .
Dose - ranging trials in subjects with asthma evaluated doses from 3 to 50 mcg and 12 . 5 mcg once - daily versus 6 . 25 mcg twice - daily dosing frequency .
The results supported the selection of the vilanterol 25 mcg once - daily dose for further evaluation in the confirmatory trials for COPD .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Confirmatory Trials Lung Function The clinical development program for ANORO ELLIPTA included two 6 - month , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group trials ; two 6 - month active - controlled trials ; and two 12 - week crossover trials in subjects with COPD designed to evaluate the efficacy of ANORO ELLIPTA on lung function .
The 6 - month trials treated 4 , 733 subjects that had a clinical diagnosis of COPD , were 40 years of age or older , had a history of smoking ≥ 10 pack - years , had a post - albuterol FEV1 ≤ 70 % of predicted normal values , had a ratio of FEV1 / FVC of < 0 . 7 , and had a Modified Medical Research Council ( mMRC ) score ≥ 2 .
Of the 4 , 713 subjects included in the efficacy analysis , 68 % were male and 84 % were white .
They had a mean age of 63 years and an average smoking history of 45 pack - years , with 50 % identified as current smokers .
At screening , the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV1 was 48 % ( range : 13 % to 76 % ) , the mean postbronchodilator FEV1 / FVC ratio was 0 . 47 ( range : 0 . 13 to 0 . 78 ) , and the mean percent reversibility was 14 % ( range : - 36 % to 109 % ) .
Trial 1 ( NCT01313650 ) evaluated ANORO ELLIPTA ( umeclidinium / vilanterol 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ) , umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg , vilanterol 25 mcg , and placebo .
The primary endpoint was change from baseline in trough ( predose ) FEV1 at Day 169 ( defined as the mean of the FEV1 values obtained at 23 and 24 hours after the previous dose on Day 168 ) compared with placebo , umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg , and vilanterol 25 mcg .
The comparison of ANORO ELLIPTA with umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg and vilanterol 25 mcg was assessed to evaluate the contribution of the individual comparators to ANORO ELLIPTA .
ANORO ELLIPTA demonstrated a larger increase in mean change from baseline in trough ( predose ) FEV1 relative to placebo , umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcg , and vilanterol 25 mcg ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Least Squares Mean Change from Baseline in Trough FEV1 ( mL ) at Day 169 in the Intent - to - Treat Population ( Trial 1 ) n = Number in intent - to - treat population .
a The umeclidinium and vilanterol comparators used the same inhaler and excipients as ANORO ELLIPTA .
Treatment n Trough FEV1 ( mL ) at Day 169 Difference from Placebo ( 95 % CI ) n = 280 Umeclidinium 62 . 5 mcga ( 95 % CI ) n = 418 Vilanterol 25 mcga ( 95 % CI ) n = 421 ANORO ELLIPTA 413 167 ( 128 , 207 ) 52 ( 17 , 87 ) 95 ( 60 , 130 ) Trial 2 ( NCT01313637 ) had a similar study design as Trial 1 but evaluated umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg , umeclidinium 125 mcg , vilanterol 25 mcg , and placebo .
Results for umeclidinium / vilanterol 125 / 25 mcg in Trial 2 were similar to those observed for ANORO ELLIPTA in Trial 1 .
Results from the 2 active - controlled trials and the two 12 - week trials provided additional support for the efficacy of ANORO ELLIPTA in terms of change from baseline in trough FEV1 compared with the single - ingredient comparators and placebo .
Serial spirometric evaluations throughout the 24 - hour dosing interval were performed in a subset of subjects ( n = 197 ) at Days 1 , 84 , and 168 in Trial 1 .
Results from Trial 1 at Day 1 and Day 168 are shown in Figure 5 .
Figure 5 .
Least Squares ( LS ) Mean Change from Baseline in FEV1 ( mL ) over Time ( 0 - 24 h ) on Days 1 and 168 ( Trial 1 Subset Population ) Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Day 168 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The peak FEV1 was defined as the maximum FEV1 recorded within 6 hours after the dose of trial medicine on Days 1 , 28 , 84 , and 168 ( measurements recorded at 15 and 30 minutes and 1 , 3 , and 6 hours ) .
The mean peak FEV1 improvement from baseline for ANORO ELLIPTA compared with placebo at Day 1 and at Day 168 was 167 and 224 mL , respectively .
The median time to onset on Day 1 , defined as a 100 - mL increase from baseline in FEV1 , was 27 minutes in subjects receiving ANORO ELLIPTA .
Exacerbations In Trial 6 ( NCT02164513 ) , a total of 10 , 355 subjects with COPD with a history of 1 or more moderate or severe exacerbations in the prior 12 months were randomized ( 1 : 2 : 2 ) to receive ANORO ELLIPTA ( n = 2 , 070 ) , fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol 100 / 62 . 5 / 25 mcg ( n = 4 , 151 ) , or fluticasone furoate / vilanterol 100 / 25 mcg ( n = 4 , 134 ) administered once daily in a 12 - month trial .
The population demographics across all treatments were : mean age of 65 years , 77 % white , 66 % male , and an average smoking history of 46 . 6 pack - years , with 35 % identified as current smokers .
At trial entry , the most common COPD medications were ICS + anticholinergic + LABA ( 34 % ) , ICS + LABA ( 26 % ) , anticholinergic + LABA ( 8 % ) , and anticholinergic ( 7 % ) .
The mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV1 was 46 % ( standard deviation : 15 % ) , the mean postbronchodilator FEV1 / FVC ratio was 0 . 47 ( standard deviation : 0 . 12 ) , and the mean percent reversibility was 10 % ( range : - 59 % to 125 % ) .
The primary endpoint was annual rate of on - treatment moderate and severe exacerbations in subjects treated with fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol compared with the fixed - dose combinations of fluticasone furoate / vilanterol and ANORO ELLIPTA .
Exacerbations were defined as worsening of 2 or more major symptoms ( dyspnea , sputum volume , and sputum purulence ) or worsening of any 1 major symptom together with any 1 of the following minor symptoms : sore throat , colds ( nasal discharge and / or nasal congestion ) , fever without other cause , and increased cough or wheeze for at least 2 consecutive days .
Exacerbations were considered to be of moderate severity if treatment with systemic corticosteroids and / or antibiotics was required and were considered to be severe if resulted in hospitalization or death .
Contribution of Umeclidinium on COPD Exacerbations : Evidence of efficacy for ANORO ELLIPTA on COPD exacerbations was established by the efficacy of the umeclidinium component of fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol in Trial 6 .
Treatment with fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol statistically significantly reduced the on - treatment annual rate of moderate / severe exacerbations by 15 % compared with fluticasone furoate / vilanterol ( Table 3 ) .
A reduction in risk of on - treatment moderate / severe exacerbation ( as measured by time to first ) was also observed for the same comparison .
The benefit of umeclidinium on exacerbations is not expected to diminish when combined with vilanterol in ANORO ELLIPTA .
ANORO ELLIPTA and COPD Exacerbations : In Trial 6 , the primary efficacy analysis of the rate of moderate / severe exacerbations , treatment with fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol statistically significantly reduced the on - treatment annual rate of moderate / severe exacerbations by 25 % compared with ANORO ELLIPTA ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 .
Moderate and Severe Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbations ( Trial 6 ) aFF / UMEC / VI = Fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol 100 / 62 . 5 / 25 mcg , FF / VI = Fluticasone furoate / vilanterol 100 / 25 mcg , ANORO ELLIPTA = Umeclidinium / vilanterol 62 . 5 / 25 mcg .
a On - treatment analyses excluded exacerbation data collected after discontinuation of study treatment .
Treatment n Mean Annual Rate ( exacerbations / year ) FF / UMEC / VI Rate Ratio vs . Comparator ( 95 % CI ) % Reduction in Exacerbation Rate ( 95 % CI ) P Value FF / UMEC / VI 4 , 145 0 . 91 FF / VI 4 , 133 1 . 07 0 . 85 ( 0 . 80 , 0 . 90 ) 15 ( 10 , 20 ) P < 0 . 001 ANORO ELLIPTA 2 , 069 1 . 21 0 . 75 ( 0 . 70 , 0 . 81 ) 25 ( 19 , 30 ) P < 0 . 001 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ANORO ELLIPTA is supplied as a disposable light grey and red plastic inhaler containing 2 foil strips , each with 30 blisters ( or 7 blisters for the institutional pack ) .
One strip contains umeclidinium ( 62 . 5 mcg per blister ) , and the other strip contains vilanterol ( 25 mcg per blister ) .
A blister from each strip is used to create 1 dose .
The inhaler is packaged in a moisture - protective foil tray with a desiccant and a peelable lid in the following packs : NDC 0173 - 0869 - 10 30 inhalations ( 60 blisters ) NDC 0173 - 0869 - 06 7 inhalations ( 14 blisters ) , institutional pack Store at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted from 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store in a dry place away from direct heat or sunlight .
Keep out of reach of children .
ANORO ELLIPTA should be stored inside the unopened moisture - protective foil tray and only removed from the tray immediately before initial use .
Discard ANORO ELLIPTA 6 weeks after opening the foil tray or when the counter reads “ 0 ” ( after all blisters have been used ) , whichever comes first .
The inhaler is not reusable .
Do not attempt to take the inhaler apart .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Serious Asthma - Related Events ANORO ELLIPTA is not indicated for the treatment of asthma .
Inform patients that LABAs , such as vilanterol ( one of the active ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA ) , when used alone ( without ICS ) for asthma increase the risk of asthma - related hospitalization or asthma - related death .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Not for Acute Symptoms Inform patients that ANORO ELLIPTA is not meant to relieve acute symptoms of COPD and extra doses should not be used for that purpose .
Advise patients to treat acute symptoms with an inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonist such as albuterol .
Provide patients with such medication and instruct them in how it should be used .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately if they experience any of the following : • • Decreasing effectiveness of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists • • Need for more inhalations than usual of inhaled , short - acting beta2 - agonists • • Significant decrease in lung function as outlined by the physician Tell patients they should not stop therapy with ANORO ELLIPTA without physician / provider guidance since symptoms may recur after discontinuation .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
Do Not Use Additional Long - acting Beta2 - agonists Instruct patients not to use other LABAs for COPD .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) . ]
Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medicines , ANORO ELLIPTA can cause paradoxical bronchospasm .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , instruct patients to discontinue ANORO ELLIPTA and contact their healthcare provider right away .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) . ]
Risks Associated with Beta - agonist Therapy Inform patients of adverse effects associated with beta2 - agonists , such as palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
Instruct patients to consult a healthcare practitioner immediately should any of these signs and symptoms develop .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) . ]
Worsening of Narrow - Angle Glaucoma Instruct patients to be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) . ]
Worsening of Urinary Retention Instruct patients to be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention ( e . g . , difficulty passing urine , painful urination ) .
Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) . ]
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
ANORO ELLIPTA was developed in collaboration with Innoviva .
GlaxoSmithKline Durham , NC 27701 © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
ANR : 11 PI PATIENT INFORMATION ANORO ELLIPTA ( a - NOR - oh e - LIP - ta ) ( umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation powder ) for oral inhalation use What is ANORO ELLIPTA ?
• • ANORO ELLIPTA combines 2 medicines in 1 inhaler , an anticholinergic medicine ( umeclidinium ) and a long ‑ acting beta2 - adrenergic agonist ( LABA ) medicine ( vilanterol ) .
• oAnticholinergic medicines such as umeclidinium and LABA medicines such as vilanterol help the muscles around the airways in your lungs stay relaxed to prevent symptoms such as wheezing , cough , chest tightness , and shortness of breath .
These symptoms can happen when the muscles around the airways tighten .
This makes it hard to breathe .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA is not used to relieve sudden breathing problems and will not replace a rescue inhaler .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA is a prescription medicine used long term ( chronic ) to treat people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
COPD is a chronic lung disease that includes chronic bronchitis , emphysema , or both .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA is used as 1 inhalation 1 time each day to improve symptoms of COPD for better breathing and to reduce the number of flare - ups ( the worsening of your COPD symptoms for several days ) .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA is not for the treatment of asthma .
It is not known if ANORO ELLIPTA is safe and effective in people with asthma .
ANORO ELLIPTA should not be used in children .
It is not known if ANORO ELLIPTA is safe and effective in children .
Do not use ANORO ELLIPTA if you : • • have a severe allergy to milk proteins .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
• • are allergic to umeclidinium , vilanterol , or any of the ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA .
See the end of this Patient Information for a complete list of ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA .
• • have asthma .
Before using ANORO ELLIPTA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have heart problems .
• • have high blood pressure .
• • have seizures .
• • have thyroid problems .
• • have diabetes .
• • have liver problems .
• • have eye problems such as glaucoma .
ANORO ELLIPTA may make your glaucoma worse .
• • are allergic to milk proteins .
• • have prostate or bladder problems , or problems passing urine .
ANORO ELLIPTA may make these problems worse .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ANORO ELLIPTA may harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if the medicines in ANORO ELLIPTA pass into your breast milk and if they can harm your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
ANORO ELLIPTA and certain other medicines may interact with each other .
This may cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • anticholinergics ( including tiotropium , ipratropium , aclidinium ) • • atropine • • other LABAs ( including salmeterol , formoterol , arformoterol , olodaterol , and indacaterol ) • • antifungal or anti - HIV medicines Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use ANORO ELLIPTA ?
Read the step - by - step instructions for using ANORO ELLIPTA at the end of this Patient Information .
• • Do not use ANORO ELLIPTA unless your healthcare provider has taught you how to use the inhaler and you understand how to use it correctly .
• • Use ANORO ELLIPTA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
Do not use ANORO ELLIPTA more often than prescribed .
• • Use 1 inhalation of ANORO ELLIPTA 1 time each day .
Use ANORO ELLIPTA at the same time each day .
• • If you miss a dose of ANORO ELLIPTA , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not take more than 1 inhalation per day .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
Do not take 2 doses at 1 time .
• • If you take too much ANORO ELLIPTA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any unusual symptoms , such as worsening shortness of breath , chest pain , increased heart rate , or shakiness .
• • Do not use other medicines that contain a LABA or an anticholinergic for any reason .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if any of your other medicines are LABA or anticholinergic medicines .
• • Do not stop using ANORO ELLIPTA unless told to do so by your healthcare provider because your symptoms might get worse .
Your healthcare provider will change your medicines as needed .
• • ANORO ELLIPTA does not relieve sudden symptoms of COPD and you should not take extra doses of ANORO ELLIPTA to relieve these sudden symptoms .
Always have a rescue inhaler with you to treat sudden symptoms .
If you do not have a rescue inhaler , call your healthcare provider to have one prescribed for you .
• • Call your healthcare provider or get medical care right away if : • oyour breathing problems get worse .
• oyou need to use your rescue inhaler more often than usual .
• oyour rescue inhaler does not work as well to relieve your symptoms .
What are the possible side effects of ANORO ELLIPTA ?
ANORO ELLIPTA can cause serious side effects , including : • • serious problems in people with asthma .
People with asthma who take LABA medicines , such as vilanterol ( one of the medicines in ANORO ELLIPTA ) , without also using a medicine called an inhaled corticosteroid , have an increased risk of serious problems from asthma , including death .
• oCall your healthcare provider if breathing problems worsen over time while using ANORO ELLIPTA .
You may need a different treatment .
• oGet emergency medical care if : • • your breathing problems worsen quickly .
• • you use your rescue inhaler medicine , but it does not relieve your breathing problems .
• • COPD symptoms that get worse over time .
If your COPD symptoms worsen over time , do not increase your dose of ANORO ELLIPTA ; instead call your healthcare provider .
• • symptoms of using too much of a LABA medicine , including : • ochest pain • ofast or irregular heartbeat • otremor • oincreased blood pressure • oheadache • onervousness • • sudden breathing problems immediately after inhaling your medicine .
If you have sudden breathing problems immediately after inhaling your medicine , stop using ANORO ELLIPTA and call your healthcare provider right away .
• • serious allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care if you get any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction : • orash • ohives • oswelling of your face , mouth , and tongue • obreathing problems • • effects on heart .
• oincreased blood pressure • oa fast or irregular heartbeat , awareness of heartbeat • ochest pain • • effects on nervous system .
• otremor • onervousness • • new or worsening eye problems including acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
You should have regular eye exams while using ANORO ELLIPTA .
Acute narrow - angle glaucoma can cause permanent loss of vision if not treated .
Symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma may include : • oeye pain or discomfort • oblurred vision • ored eyes • onausea or vomiting • oseeing halos or bright colors around lights • If you have these symptoms , call your healthcare provider right away before taking another dose .
• • urinary retention .
People who take ANORO ELLIPTA may develop new or worse urinary retention .
Symptoms of urinary retention may include : • odifficulty urinating • ourinating frequently • opainful urination • ourination in a weak stream or drips • If you have these symptoms of urinary retention , stop taking ANORO ELLIPTA and call your healthcare provider right away before taking another dose .
• • changes in laboratory blood values , including high levels of blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and low levels of potassium ( hypokalemia ) .
Common side effects of ANORO ELLIPTA include : • osore throat • ocommon cold symptoms • opain in your arms or legs • ochest pain • osinus infection • oconstipation • omuscle spasms • olower respiratory infection • odiarrhea • oneck pain These are not all the possible side effects of ANORO ELLIPTA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ANORO ELLIPTA ?
• • Store ANORO ELLIPTA at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
Keep in a dry place away from heat and sunlight .
• • Store ANORO ELLIPTA in the unopened tray and only open when ready for use .
• • Safely throw away ANORO ELLIPTA in the trash 6 weeks after you open the tray or when the counter reads “ 0 ” , whichever comes first .
Write the date you open the tray on the label on the inhaler .
• • Keep ANORO ELLIPTA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ANORO ELLIPTA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ANORO ELLIPTA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ANORO ELLIPTA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ANORO ELLIPTA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ANORO ELLIPTA ?
Active ingredients : umeclidinium , vilanterol Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate ( contains milk proteins ) , magnesium stearate For more information about ANORO ELLIPTA , call 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
ANORO ELLIPTA was developed in collaboration with Innoviva .
GlaxoSmithKline , Durham , NC 27701 © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
ANR : 10 PIL • This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : October 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ANORO ELLIPTA ( a - NOR - oh e - LIP - ta ) ( umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation powder ) for oral inhalation use Read this before you start : • • If you open and close the cover without inhaling the medicine , you will lose the dose .
• • The lost dose will be securely held inside the inhaler , but it will no longer be available to be inhaled .
• • It is not possible to accidentally take a double dose or an extra dose in 1 inhalation .
Your ANORO ELLIPTA inhaler [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to use your inhaler • • ANORO ELLIPTA comes in a tray .
• • Peel back the lid to open the tray .
See Figure A . • • The tray contains a desiccant to reduce moisture .
Do not eat or inhale .
Throw it away in the household trash out of reach of children and pets .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Important Notes : • • Your inhaler contains 30 doses ( 7 doses if you have a sample or institutional pack ) .
• • Each time you fully open the cover of the inhaler ( you will hear a clicking sound ) , a dose is ready to be inhaled .
This is shown by a decrease in the number on the counter .
• • If you open and close the cover without inhaling the medicine , you will lose the dose .
The lost dose will be held in the inhaler , but it will no longer be available to be inhaled .
It is not possible to accidentally take a double dose or an extra dose in 1 inhalation .
• • Do not open the cover of the inhaler until you are ready to use it .
To avoid wasting doses after the inhaler is ready , do not close the cover until after you have inhaled the medicine .
• • Write the “ Tray opened ” and “ Discard ” dates on the inhaler label .
The “ Discard ” date is 6 weeks from the date you open the tray .
Check the counter .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure C • • Before the inhaler is used for the first time , the counter should show the number 30 ( 7 if you have a sample or institutional pack ) .
This is the number of doses in the inhaler .
• • Each time you open the cover , you prepare 1 dose of medicine .
• • The counter counts down by 1 each time you open the cover .
Prepare your dose : Wait to open the cover until you are ready to take your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 1 .
Open the cover of the inhaler .
See Figure D . • • Slide the cover down to expose the mouthpiece .
You should hear a “ click . ”
The counter will count down by 1 number .
You do not need to shake this kind of inhaler .
Your inhaler is now ready to use .
• • If the counter does not count down as you hear the click , the inhaler will not deliver the medicine .
Call your healthcare provider or pharmacist if this happens .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 2 .
Breathe out .
See Figure E . • • While holding the inhaler away from your mouth , breathe out ( exhale ) fully .
Do not breathe out into the mouthpiece .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 3 .
Inhale your medicine .
See Figure F . • • Put the mouthpiece between your lips , and close your lips firmly around it .
Your lips should fit over the curved shape of the mouthpiece .
• • Take 1 long , steady , deep breath in through your mouth .
Do not breathe in through your nose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G • • Do not block the air vent with your fingers .
See Figure G . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H • • Remove the inhaler from your mouth and hold your breath for about 3 to 4 seconds ( or as long as comfortable for you ) .
See Figure H . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I Step 4 .
Breathe out slowly and gently .
See Figure I . • • You may not taste or feel the medicine , even when you are using the inhaler correctly .
• • Do not take another dose from the inhaler even if you do not feel or taste the medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J Step 5 .
Close the inhaler .
See Figure J . • • You can clean the mouthpiece if needed , using a dry tissue , before you close the cover .
Routine cleaning is not required .
• • Slide the cover up and over the mouthpiece as far as it will go .
Important Note : When should you get a refill ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K • • When you have fewer than 10 doses remaining in your inhaler , the left half of the counter shows red as a reminder to get a refill .
See Figure K . • • After you have inhaled the last dose , the counter will show “ 0 ” and will be empty .
• • Throw the empty inhaler away in your household trash out of reach of children and pets .
For more information about ANORO ELLIPTA or how to use your inhaler , call 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
ANORO ELLIPTA was developed in collaboration with Innoviva .
GlaxoSmithKline , Durham , NC 27701 © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
ANR : 6 IFU • This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : October 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0173 - 0869 - 10 ANORO ELLIPTA ( umeclidinium and vilanterol inhalation powder ) Rx Only 62 . 5 mcg / 25 mcg FOR ORAL INHALATION ONLY Each blister on one strip contains 62 . 5 mcg of umeclidinium , magnesium stearate , and lactose monohydrate .
Each blister on the other strip contains 25 mcg of vilanterol , magnesium stearate , and lactose monohydrate .
1 ELLIPTA Inhaler containing 30 doses ( 60 blisters total ) © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
• 62000000074516 Rev . 1 / 22 • [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
