Contraindications Reaphirm Plant Source DHA is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron Therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B12 ) .
Refer to MM1carton label Boxed Warning WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS : Reaphirm Plant Source DHA should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kigney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions : Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients : Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use : Not for pediatric use .
Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Reaphirm Plant Source DHA .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
Dosage and Administration Before , during and after pregnancy , one softgel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
How Supplied Reaphirm Plant Source DHA is available as a dark blue , oval shaped softgel capsule imprinted " EV3010 " .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 softgel capsules ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) , avoid excessive heat .
Rx Only Manufactured for EVERETT LABORATORIES , INC .
West Orange , NJ 07052 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 Principal Display Panel reaphirm111128carton _ lcr [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
