DESCRIPTION DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension contains medroxyprogesterone acetate , which is a derivative of progesterone and is active by the parenteral and oral routes of administration .
It is a white to off - white , odorless crystalline powder , stable in air , melting between 200 ° and 210 ° C .
It is freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in acetone and in dioxane , sparingly soluble in alcohol and methanol , slightly soluble in ether and insoluble in water .
The chemical name for medroxyprogesterone acetate is Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 - methyl - , ( 6α ) - .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] DEPO - PROVERA for intramuscular injection is available as 400 mg / mL medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Each mL of the 400 mg / mL suspension contains : Medroxyprogesterone acetate ............. 400 mg Polyethylene glycol 3350 ..................... 20 . 3 mg Sodium sulfate anhydrous ......................
11 mg with Myristyl - gamma - picolinium chloride ............................................ 1 . 69 mg added as preservative When necessary , pH was adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS Medroxyprogesterone acetate , administered parenterally in the recommended doses to women with adequate endogenous estrogen , transforms proliferative endometrium into secretory endometrium .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate inhibits ( in the usual dose range ) the secretion of pituitary gonadotropin which , in turn , prevents follicular maturation and ovulation .
Because of its prolonged action and the resulting difficulty in predicting the time of withdrawal bleeding following injection , medroxyprogesterone acetate is not recommended in secondary amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding .
In these conditions oral therapy is recommended .
INDICATIONS AND USES Adjunctive therapy and palliative treatment of inoperable , recurrent , and metastatic endometrial or renal carcinoma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding • Known or suspected malignancy of breast • Active thrombophlebitis , or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders , or cerebral vascular disease • Liver dysfunction or disease • Known sensitivity to DEPO - PROVERA ( medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients ) .
WARNINGS 1 .
Pregnancy The use of progestational drugs during the first four months of pregnancy is not recommended .
Progestational agents have been used beginning with the first trimester of pregnancy in attempts to prevent abortion but there is no evidence that such use is effective .
Furthermore , the use of progestational agents , with their uterine - relaxant properties , in patients with fertilized defective ova may cause a delay in spontaneous abortion .
2 .
Intrauterine Exposure Several reports suggest an association between intrauterine exposure to progestational drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy and genital abnormalities in male and female fetuses .
The risk of hypospadias ( 5 to 8 per 1 , 000 male births in the general population ) may be approximately doubled with exposure to these drugs .
There are insufficient data to quantify the risk to exposed female fetuses , but insofar as some of these drugs induce mild virilization of the external genitalia of the female fetus , and because of the increased association of hypospadias in the male fetus , it is prudent to avoid the use of these drugs during the first trimester of pregnancy .
If the patient is exposed to DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension during the first four months of pregnancy or if she becomes pregnant while taking this drug , she should be apprised of the potential risks to the fetus .
3 .
Thromboembolic Disorders The physician should be alert to the earliest manifestations of thrombotic disorder ( thrombophlebitis , cerebrovascular disorder , pulmonary embolism , and retinal thrombosis ) .
Should any of these occur or be suspected , the drug should be discontinued immediately .
4 .
Ocular Disorders Medication should be discontinued pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision , or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia or migraine .
If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions , medication should be withdrawn .
5 .
Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving progestational drugs .
The effect of this on the nursing infant has not been determined .
6 .
Multi - dose Use Multi - dose use of DEPOPROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension from a single vial requires special care to avoid contamination .
Although initially sterile , any multi - dose use of vials may lead to contamination unless strict aseptic technique is observed .
PRECAUTIONS 1 .
Physical Examination It is good medical practice for all women to have annual history and physical examinations , including women using DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension .
The physical examination , however , may be deferred until after initiation of DEPO - PROVERA if requested by the woman and judged appropriate by the clinician .
The physical examination should include special reference to blood pressure , breasts , abdomen and pelvic organs , including cervical cytology and relevant laboratory tests .
In case of undiagnosed , persistent or recurrent abnormal vaginal bleeding , appropriate measures should be conducted to rule out malignancy .
Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care .
2 .
Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions which might be influenced by this condition , such as epilepsy , migraine , asthma , cardiac or renal dysfunction , require careful observation .
3 .
Vaginal Bleeding In cases of breakthrough bleeding , as in all cases of irregular bleeding per vaginum , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind and adequate diagnostic measures undertaken .
4 .
Depression Patients who have a history of psychic depression should be carefully observed and the drug discontinued if the depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 .
Masking of Climacteric The age of the patient constitutes no absolute limiting factor although treatment with progestin may mask the onset of the climacteric .
6 .
Use with Estrogen Studies of the addition of a progestin product to an estrogen replacement regimen for seven or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia .
Morphological and biochemical studies of endometrial suggest that 10 – 13 days of a progestin are needed to provide maximal maturation of the endometrium and to eliminate any hyperplastic changes .
Whether this will provide protection from endometrial carcinoma has not been clearly established .
There are possible risks which may be associated with the inclusion of progestin in estrogen replacement regimen , including adverse effects on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism .
The dosage used may be important in minimizing these adverse effects .
A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in a small percentage of patients on estrogen - progestin combination treatment .
The mechanism of this decrease is obscure .
For this reason , diabetic patients should be carefully observed while receiving such therapy .
7 .
Prolonged Use The effect of prolonged use of DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension at the recommended doses on pituitary , ovarian , adrenal , hepatic , and uterine function is not known .
8 .
Multi - dose Use When multi - dose vials are used , special care to prevent contamination of the contents is essential .
There is some evidence that benzalkonium chloride is not an adequate antiseptic for sterilizing DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension multi - dose vials .
A povidone - iodine solution or similar product is recommended to cleanse the vial top prior to aspiration of contents .
( See WARNINGS ) DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension may significantly depress the serum concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate .
DEPO - PROVERA users should be warned of the possibility of decreased efficacy with the use of this or any related drugs .
LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension : • a ) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased ( e . g . progesterone , estradiol , pregnanediol , testosterone , cortisol ) .
• b ) Gonadotropin levels are decreased .
• c ) Sex - hormone binding globulin concentrations are decreased .
• d ) Protein bound iodine and butanol extractable protein bound iodine may increase .
T3 uptake values may decrease .
• e ) Coagulation test values for prothrombin ( Factor II ) , and Factors VII , VIII , IX , and X may increase .
• f ) Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased .
• g ) The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent .
Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol , triglycerides , low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol , and high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol have been observed in studies .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term intramuscular administration of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( MPA ) has been shown to produce mammary tumors in beagle dogs .
There is no evidence of a carcinogenic effect associated with the oral administration of MPA to rats and mice .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate was not mutagenic in a battery of in vitro or in vivo genetic toxicity assays .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate at high doses is an anti - fertility drug and high doses would be expected to impair fertility until the cessation of treatment .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT See Patient Information at end of insert .
ADVERSE REACTIONS – ( See WARNINGS for possible adverse effects on the fetus ) – breakthrough bleeding – spotting – change in menstrual flow – amenorrhea – headache – nervousness – dizziness – edema – change in weight ( increase or decrease ) – changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions – cholestatic jaundice , including neonatal jaundice – breast tenderness and galactorrhea – skin sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria , pruritus , edema and generalized rash – acne , alopecia and hirsutism – rash ( allergic ) with and without pruritis – anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylaxis – mental depression – pyrexia – fatigue – insomnia – nausea – somnolence In a few instances there have been undesirable sequelae at the site of injection , such as residual lump , change in color of skin , or sterile abscess .
A statistically significant association has been demonstrated between use of estrogen - progestin combination drugs and pulmonary embolism and cerebral thrombosis and embolism .
For this reason patients on progestin therapy should be carefully observed .
There is also evidence suggestive of an association with neuro - ocular lesions , e . g . retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis .
The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving estrogen - progestin combination drugs : – rise in blood pressure in susceptible individuals – premenstrual syndrome – changes in libido – changes in appetite – cystitis - like syndrome – headache – nervousness – fatigue – backache – hirsutism – loss of scalp hair – erythema multiforma – erythema nodosum – hemorrhagic eruption – itching – dizziness The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen - progestin combination drugs : – increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests – coagulation tests : increase in prothrombin factors VII , VIII , IX , and X – metyrapone test – pregnanediol determinations – thyroid function : increase in PBI , and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T3 uptake values DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The suspension is intended for intramuscular administration only .
Endometrial or renal carcinoma — doses of 400 mg to 1000 mg of DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension per week are recommended initially .
If improvement is noted within a few weeks or months and the disease appears stabilized , it may be possible to maintain improvement with as little as 400 mg per month .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate is not recommended as primary therapy , but as adjunctive and palliative treatment in advanced inoperable cases including those with recurrent or metastatic disease .
When multi - dose vials are used , special care to prevent contamination of the contents is essential ( See WARNINGS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension is available as 400 mg / mL in 2 . 5 mL vials NDC 54868 - 3348 - 1 .
The text of the patient insert for progestational drugs is set forth below .
PATIENT INFORMATION DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension is a progestational drug .
The information below is required by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration to be provided to all patients taking such products .
This information relates only to the risk to the unborn child associated with use of progestational drugs during pregnancy .
For further information on the use , side effects , and other risks associated with this product , ask your doctor .
WARNING FOR WOMEN Progesterone or progesterone - like drugs have been used to prevent miscarriage in the first few months of pregnancy .
No adequate evidence is available to show that they are effective for this purpose .
Furthermore , most cases of early miscarriage are due to causes which could not be helped by these drugs .
There is an increased risk of minor birth defects in children whose mothers take this drug during the first 4 months of pregnancy .
Several reports suggest an association between mothers who take these drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy and genital abnormalities in male and female babies .
The risk to the male baby is the possibility of being born with a condition in which the opening of the penis is on the underside rather than the tip of the penis ( hypospadias ) .
Hypospadias occurs in about 5 to 8 per 1000 male births and is about doubled with exposure to these drugs .
There is not enough information to quantify the risk to exposed female fetuses , but enlargement of the clitoris and fusion of the labia may occur , although rarely .
Therefore , since drugs of this type may induce mild masculinization of the external genitalia of the female fetus , as well as hypospadias in the male fetus , it is wise to avoid using the drug during the first trimester of pregnancy .
These drugs have been used as a test for pregnancy but such use is no longer considered safe because of possible damage to a developing baby .
Also , more rapid methods for testing for pregnancy are now available .
If you take DEPO - PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension and later find you were pregnant when you took it , be sure to discuss this with your doctor as soon as possible .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0143 - 3 . 0 May 2006 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 5 mL Vial Label 2 . 5 mL Vial Rx only Depo - Provera ® medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension , USP 400 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
