Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 10 / 2008 Warnings and Precautions Severe anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ( 5 . 1 ) 10 / 2008 Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes ( 5 . 3 ) 10 / 2008 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ROZEREM is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset .
The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 6 months in duration .
The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed after 2 days of treatment during the crossover study ( elderly only ) , at 5 weeks in the 6 - week studies ( adults and elderly ) , and at the end of the 6 - month study ( adults and elderly ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
ROZEREM is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult dose : 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed ( 2 . 1 ) • Should not be taken with or immediately after a high - fat meal ( 2 . 1 ) • Total daily dose should not exceed 8 mg ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of ROZEREM is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed .
It is recommended that ROZEREM not be taken with or immediately after a high - fat meal .
The total ROZEREM dose should not exceed 8 mg per day .
2 . 2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment ROZEREM is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
ROZEREM should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Administration with Other Medications ROZEREM should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine .
ROZEREM should be used with caution in patients taking other CYP1A2 inhibiting drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ROZEREM is available in an 8 mg strength tablet for oral administration .
ROZEREM 8 mg tablets are round , pale orange - yellow , film - coated , with “ TAK ” and “ RAM - 8 ” printed on one side .
8 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with ROZEREM should not be rechallenged with the drug .
Patients should not take ROZEREM in conjunction with fluvoxamine ( Luvox ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• History of angioedema while taking ROZEREM ( 4 ) • Fluvoxamine ( strong CYP1A2 inhibitor ) : Increases AUC for ramelteon and should not be used in combination ( 7 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions : Angioedema and anaphylaxis have been reported .
Do not rechallenge if such reactions occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Need to evaluate for co - morbid diagnoses : Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Abnormal thinking , behavioral changes , complex behaviors : May include “ sleep - driving ” and hallucinations .
Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes .
( 5 . 3 ) • Depression : Worsening of depression or suicidal thinking may occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • CNS effects : Potential impairment of activities requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , after ingesting the drug .
( 5 . 4 ) • Reproductive effects : Include decreased testosterone and increased prolactin levels .
Effect on reproductive axis in developing humans is unknown .
( 5 . 5 ) • Patients with severe sleep apnea : Rozerem is not recommended for use in this population .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue , glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of ROZEREM .
Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea , throat closing , or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis .
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department .
If angioedema involves the tongue , glottis or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with ROZEREM should not be rechallenged with the drug .
5 . 2 Need to Evaluate for Co - morbid Diagnoses Since sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia , or the emergence of new cognitive or behavioral abnormalities , may be the result of an unrecognized underlying psychiatric or physical disorder and requires further evaluation of the patient .
Exacerbation of insomnia and emergence of cognitive and behavioral abnormalities were seen with ROZEREM during the clinical development program .
5 . 3 Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes A variety of cognitive and behavior changes have been reported to occur in association with the use of hypnotics .
In primarily depressed patients , worsening of depression ( including suicidal ideation and completed suicides ) has been reported in association with the use of hypnotics .
Hallucinations , as well as behavioral changes such as bizarre behavior , agitation and mania have been reported with ROZEREM use .
Amnesia , anxiety and other neuro - psychiatric symptoms may also occur unpredictably .
Complex behaviors such as " sleep - driving " ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a hypnotic ) and other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) , with amnesia for the event , have been reported in association with hypnotic use .
The use of alcohol and other CNS depressants may increase the risk of such behaviors .
These events can occur in hypnotic - naive as well as in hypnotic - experienced persons .
Complex behaviors have been reported with the use of ROZEREM .
Discontinuation of ROZEREM should be strongly considered for patients who report any complex sleep behavior .
5 . 4 CNS Effects Patients should avoid engaging in hazardous activities that require concentration ( such as operating a motor vehicle or heavy machinery ) after taking ROZEREM .
After taking ROZEREM , patients should confine their activities to those necessary to prepare for bed .
Patients should be advised not to consume alcohol in combination with ROZEREM as alcohol and ROZEREM may have additive effects when used in conjunction .
5 . 5 Reproductive Effects Use in Adolescents and Children ROZEREM has been associated with an effect on reproductive hormones in adults , e . g . , decreased testosterone levels and increased prolactin levels .
It is not known what effect chronic or even chronic intermittent use of ROZEREM may have on the reproductive axis in developing humans [ see Clinical Trials ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness ROZEREM has not been studied in subjects with severe sleep apnea and is not recommended for use in this population [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
ROZEREM should not be used by patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Laboratory Tests Monitoring No standard monitoring is required .
For patients presenting with unexplained amenorrhea , galactorrhea , decreased libido , or problems with fertility , assessment of prolactin levels and testosterone levels should be considered as appropriate .
Interference with laboratory tests ROZEREM is not known to interfere with commonly used clinical laboratory tests .
In addition , in vitro data indicate that ramelteon does not cause false - positive results for benzodiazepines , opiates , barbiturates , cocaine , cannabinoids , or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screening methods in vitro .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections : • Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Abnormal thinking , behavior changes , and complex behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • CNS effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % and more common than with placebo ) are : somnolence , dizziness , fatigue , nausea , and exacerbated insomnia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc . at 1 - 877 - TAKEDA - 7 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Adverse Reactions Resulting in Discontinuation of Treatment The data described in this section reflect exposure to ROZEREM in 5373 subjects , including 722 exposed for 6 months or longer , and 448 subjects for one year .
Six percent of the 5373 individual subjects exposed to ROZEREM in clinical studies discontinued treatment owing to an adverse event , compared with 2 % of the 2279 subjects receiving placebo .
The most frequent adverse events leading to discontinuation in subjects receiving ROZEREM were somnolence , dizziness , nausea , fatigue , headache , and insomnia ; all of which occurred in 1 % of the patients or less .
ROZEREM Most Commonly Observed Adverse Events Table 1 displays the incidence of adverse events reported by the 2861 patients with chronic insomnia who participated in placebo - controlled trials of ROZEREM .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of other drugs , and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Table 1 .
Incidence ( % of subjects ) of Treatment - Emergent Adverse EventsMedDRA Preferred Term Placebo ( n = 1456 ) Ramelteon 8 mg ( n = 1405 ) Somnolence 2 % 3 % Fatigue 2 % 3 % Dizziness 3 % 4 % Nausea 2 % 3 % Insomnia exacerbated 2 % 3 % 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Rifampin ( strong CYP enzyme inducer ) : Decreases exposure to and effects of ramelteon .
( 7 . 1 ) • Ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) : Increases AUC for ramelteon ; administer with caution .
( 7 . 1 ) • Fluconazole ( strong CYP2C9 inhibitor ) : Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon ; administer with caution .
( 7 . 1 ) • Alcohol : Causes additive psychomotor impairment ; should not be used in combination .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on ROZEREM Fluvoxamine ( strong CYP1A2 inhibitor ) : AUC0 - inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190 - fold , and the Cmax increased approximately 70 - fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and ROZEREM , compared to ROZEREM administered alone .
ROZEREM should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Other less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors have not been adequately studied .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution to patients taking less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors .
Rifampin ( strong CYP enzyme inducer ) : Administration of multiple doses of rifampin once daily for 11 days resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80 % ( 40 % to 90 % ) in total exposure to ramelteon .
Efficacy may be reduced when ROZEREM is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) : TheAUC0 - inf and Cmax of ramelteon increased by approximately 84 % and 36 % upon coadministration of ketoconazole with ROZEREM .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Fluconazole ( strong CYP2C9 inhibitor ) : TheAUC0 - inf and Cmax of ramelteon was increased by approximately 150 % when ROZEREM was coadministered with fluconazole .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effect of Alcohol on ROZEREM Alcohol by itself impairs performance and can cause sleepiness .
Since the intended effect of ROZEREM is to promote sleep , patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ROZEREM [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Use of the products in combination may have an additive effect .
7 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions ROZEREM is not known to interfere with commonly used clinical laboratory tests .
In addition , in vitro data indicate that ramelteon does not cause false - positive results for benzodiazepines , opiates , barbiturates , cocaine , cannabinoids , or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screening methods in vitro .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data may cause fetal harm .
Do not use unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : Use with caution .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric use : No overall differences in safety and efficacy between elderly and younger adult subjects .
( 8 . 5 ) • Hepatic impairment : Is not recommended in patients with severe impairment ; use with caution in moderate impairment .
( 8 . 8 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In animal studies , ramelteon produced evidence of developmental toxicity , including teratogenic effects , in rats at doses much greater than the recommended human dose ( RHD ) of 8 mg / day .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ROZEREM should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral administration of ramelteon ( 10 , 40 , 150 or 600 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis was associated with increased incidences of fetal structural abnormalities ( malformations and variations ) at doses greater than 40 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose is approximately 50 times the RHD on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Treatment of pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis produced no evidence of embryo - fetal toxicity at oral doses of up to 300 mg / kg / day ( or up to 720 times the RHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
When rats were orally administered ramelteon ( 30 , 100 , or 300 mg / kg / day ) throughout gestation and lactation , growth retardation , developmental delay , and behavioral changes were observed in the offspring at doses greater than 30 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose is 36 times the RHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Increased incidences of malformation and death among offspring were seen at the highest dose .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The potential effects of ROZEREM on the duration of labor and / or delivery , for either the mother or the fetus , have not been studied .
ROZEREM has no established use in labor and delivery .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ramelteon is secreted into human milk ; however ramelteon is secreted into the milk of lactating rats .
Because many drugs are excreted into human milk , caution should be exercised when administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ROZEREM in pediatric patients have not been established .
Further study is needed prior to determining that this product may be used safely in pre - pubescent and pubescent patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 654 subjects in double - blind , placebo - controlled , efficacy trials who received ROZEREM were at least 65 years of age ; of these , 199 were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between elderly and younger adult subjects .
A double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled study in elderly subjects with insomnia ( n = 33 ) evaluated the effect of a single dose of ROZEREM on balance , mobility , and memory functions after middle of the night awakening .
There is no information on the effect of multiple dosing .
Night time dosing of ROZEREM 8 mg did not impair middle of the night balance , mobility , or memory functions relative to placebo .
The effects on night balance in the elderly cannot be definitively known from this study .
8 . 6 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease The respiratory depressant effect of ROZEREM was evaluated in a crossover design study of subjects ( n = 26 ) with mild to moderate COPD after administering a single 16 mg dose or placebo , and in a separate study ( n = 25 ) , the effects of ROZEREM on respiratory parameters were evaluated after administering an 8 mg dose or placebo in a crossover design to patients with moderate to severe COPD , defined as patients who had forced expiratory volume at one second ( FEV1 ) / forced vital capacity ratio of < 70 % , and a FEV1 < 80 % of predicted with < 12 % reversibility to albuterol .
Treatment with a single dose of ROZEREM has no demonstrable respiratory depressant effects in subjects with mild to severe COPD , as measured by arterial O2 saturation ( SaO2 ) .
There is no available information on the respiratory effects of multiple doses of ROZEREM in patients with COPD .
The respiratory depressant effects in patients with COPD cannot be definitively known from this study .
8 . 7 Sleep Apnea The effects of ROZEREM were evaluated after administering a 16 mg dose or placebo in a crossover design to subjects ( n = 26 ) with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea .
Treatment with ROZEREM 16 mg for one night showed no difference compared with placebo on the Apnea / Hypopnea Index ( the primary outcome variable ) , apnea index , hypopnea index , central apnea index , mixed apnea index , and obstructive apnea index .
Treatment with a single dose of ROZEREM does not exacerbate mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea .
There is no available information on the respiratory effects of multiple doses of ROZEREM in patients with sleep apnea .
The effects on exacerbation in patients with mild to moderate sleep apnea cannot be definitively known from this study .
ROZEREM has not been studied in subjects with severe obstructive sleep apnea ; use of ROZEREM is not recommended in such patients .
8 . 8 Hepatic Impairment Exposure to ROZEREM was increased by 4 - fold in subjects with mild hepatic impairment and by more than 10 - fold in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment .
ROZEREM should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
ROZEREM is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
8 . 9 Renal Impairment No effects on Cmax and AUC0 - t of parent drug or M - II were seen .
No adjustment of ROZEREM dosage is required in patients with renal impairment [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ROZEREM is not a controlled substance .
Discontinuation of ramelteon in animals or in humans after chronic administration did not produce withdrawal signs .
Ramelteon does not appear to produce physical dependence .
Human Data : A laboratory abuse potential study was performed with ROZEREM [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Animal Data : Ramelteon did not produce any signals from animal behavioral studies indicating that the drug produces rewarding effects .
Monkeys did not self - administer ramelteon and the drug did not induce a conditioned place preference in rats .
There was no generalization between ramelteon and midazolam .
Ramelteon did not affect rotorod performance , an indicator of disruption of motor function , and it did not potentiate the ability of diazepam to interfere with rotorod performance .
10 OVERDOSAGE General symptomatic and supportive measures should be used , along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
As in all cases of drug overdose , respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate vital signs should be monitored , and general supportive measures employed .
Hemodialysis does not effectively reduce exposure to ROZEREM .
Therefore , the use of dialysis in the treatment of overdosage is not appropriate .
Poison Control Center : As with the management of all overdosage , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
Contact a poison control center for current information on the management of overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION ROZEREM ( ramelteon ) is an orally active hypnotic chemically designated as ( S ) - N - [ 2 - ( 1 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - 2 H - indeno - [ 5 , 4 - b ] furan - 8 - yl ) ethyl ] propionamide and containing one chiral center .
The compound is produced as the ( S ) - enantiomer , with an empirical formula of C16H21NO2 , molecular weight of 259 . 34 , and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ramelteon is freely soluble in organic solvents , such as methanol , ethanol , and dimethyl sulfoxide ; soluble in 1 - octanol and acetonitrile ; and very slightly soluble in water and in aqueous buffers from pH 3 to pH 11 .
Each ROZEREM tablet includes the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , starch , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , copovidone , titanium dioxide , yellow ferric oxide , polyethylene glycol 8000 , and ink containing shellac and synthetic iron oxide black .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ROZEREM ( ramelteon ) is a melatonin receptor agonist with both high affinity for melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptors and selectivity over the MT3 receptor .
Ramelteon demonstrates full agonist activity in vitro in cells expressing human MT1 or MT2 receptors .
The activity of ramelteon at the MT1 and MT2 receptors is believed to contribute to its sleep - promoting properties , as these receptors , acted upon by endogenous melatonin , are thought to be involved in the maintenance of the circadian rhythm underlying the normal sleep - wake cycle .
Ramelteon has no appreciable affinity for the GABA receptor complex or for receptors that bind neuropeptides , cytokines , serotonin , dopamine , noradrenaline , acetylcholine , and opiates .
Ramelteon also does not interfere with the activity of a number of selected enzymes in a standard panel .
The major metabolite of ramelteon , M - II , is active and has approximately one tenth and one fifth the binding affinity of the parent molecule for the human MT1 and MT2 receptors , respectively , and is 17 - to 25 - fold less potent than ramelteon in in vitro functional assays .
Although the potency of M - II at MT1 and MT2 receptors is lower than the parent drug , M - II circulates at higher concentrations than the parent producing 20 - to 100 - fold greater mean systemic exposure when compared to ramelteon .
M - II has weak affinity for the serotonin 5 - HT2B receptor , but no appreciable affinity for other receptors or enzymes .
Similar to ramelteon , M - II does not interfere with the activity of a number of endogenous enzymes .
All other known metabolites of ramelteon are inactive .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile of ROZEREM has been evaluated in healthy subjects as well as in subjects with hepatic or renal impairment .
When administered orally to humans in doses ranging from 4 to 64 mg , ramelteon undergoes rapid , high first - pass metabolism , and exhibits linear pharmacokinetics .
Maximal serum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) data show substantial intersubject variability , consistent with the high first - pass effect ; the coefficient of variation for these values is approximately 100 % .
Several metabolites have been identified in human serum and urine .
Absorption Ramelteon is absorbed rapidly , with median peak concentrations occurring at approximately 0 . 75 hour ( range , 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 hours ) after fasted oral administration .
Although the total absorption of ramelteon is at least 84 % , the absolute oral bioavailability is only 1 . 8 % due to extensive first - pass metabolism .
Distribution In vitro protein binding of ramelteon is approximately 82 % in human serum , independent of concentration .
Binding to albumin accounts for most of that binding , since 70 % of the drug is bound in human serum albumin .
Ramelteon is not distributed selectively to red blood cells .
Ramelteon has a mean volume of distribution after intravenous administration of 73 . 6 L , suggesting substantial tissue distribution .
Metabolism Metabolism of ramelteon consists primarily of oxidation to hydroxyl and carbonyl derivatives , with secondary metabolism producing glucuronide conjugates .
CYP1A2 is the major isozyme involved in the hepatic metabolism of ramelteon ; the CYP2C subfamily and CYP3A4 isozymes are also involved to a minor degree .
The rank order of the principal metabolites by prevalence in human serum is M - II , M - IV , M - I , and M - III .
These metabolites are formed rapidly and exhibit a monophasic decline and rapid elimination .
The overall mean systemic exposure of M - II is approximately 20 - to 100 - fold higher than parent drug .
Elimination Following oral administration of radiolabeled ramelteon , 84 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 4 % in feces , resulting in a mean recovery of 88 % .
Less than 0 . 1 % of the dose was excreted in urine and feces as the parent compound .
Elimination was essentially complete by 96 hours post - dose .
Repeated once daily dosing with ROZEREM does not result in significant accumulation owing to the short elimination half - life of ramelteon ( on average , approximately 1 - 2 . 6 hours ) .
The half - life of M - II is 2 to 5 hours and independent of dose .
Serum concentrations of the parent drug and its metabolites in humans are at or below the lower limits of quantitation within 24 hours .
Effect of Food When administered with a high - fat meal , the AUC0 - inf for a single 16 mg dose of ROZEREM was 31 % higher and the Cmax was 22 % lower than when given in a fasted state .
Median Tmax was delayed by approximately 45 minutes when ROZEREM was administered with food .
Effects of food on the AUC values for M - II were similar .
It is therefore recommended that ROZEREM not be taken with or immediately after a high - fat meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 4 Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Age : In a group of 24 elderly subjects aged 63 to 79 years administered a single ROZEREM 16 mg dose , the mean Cmax and AUC0 - inf values were 11 . 6 ng / mL ( SD , 13 . 8 ) and 18 . 7 ng · hr / mL ( SD , 19 . 4 ) , respectively .
The elimination half - life was 2 . 6 hours ( SD , 1 . 1 ) .
Compared with younger adults , the total exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) and Cmax of ramelteon were 97 % and 86 % higher , respectively , in elderly subjects .
The AUC0 - inf and Cmax of M - II were increased by 30 % and 13 % , respectively , in elderly subjects .
Gender : There are no clinically meaningful gender - related differences in the pharmacokinetics of ROZEREM or its metabolites .
Hepatic Impairment : Exposure to ROZEREM was increased almost 4 - fold in subjects with mild hepatic impairment after 7 days of dosing with 16 mg / day ; exposure was further increased ( more than 10 - fold ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment .
Exposure to M - II was only marginally increased in mildly and moderately impaired subjects relative to healthy matched controls .
The pharmacokinetics of ROZEREM have not been evaluated in subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
ROZEREM should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetic characteristics of ROZEREM were studied after administering a 16 mg dose to subjects with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment based on pre - dose creatinine clearance ( 53 to 95 , 35 to 49 , or 15 to 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , respectively ) , and in subjects who required chronic hemodialysis .
Wide intersubject variability was seen in ROZEREM exposure parameters .
However , no effects on Cmax or AUC0 - t of parent drug or M - II were seen in any of the treatment groups ; the incidence of adverse events was similar across groups .
These results are consistent with the negligible renal clearance of ramelteon , which is principally eliminated via hepatic metabolism .
No adjustment of ROZEREM dosage is required in patients with renal impairment , including patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of ≤ 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) and patients who require chronic hemodialysis .
12 . 5 Drug - Drug Interactions ROZEREM has a highly variable intersubject pharmacokinetic profile ( approximately 100 % coefficient of variation in Cmax and AUC ) .
As noted above , CYP1A2 is the major isozyme involved in the metabolism of ROZEREM ; the CYP2C subfamily and CYP3A4 isozymes are also involved to a minor degree .
Effects of Other Drugs on ROZEREM Metabolism Fluvoxamine ( strong CYP1A2 inhibitor ) : When fluvoxamine 100 mg twice daily was administered for 3 days prior to single - dose co - administration of ROZEREM 16 mg and fluvoxamine , the AUC0 - inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190 - fold , and the Cmax increased approximately 70 - fold , compared to ROZEREM administered alone .
ROZEREM should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine .
Other less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors have not been adequately studied .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution to patients taking less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors [ see Contraindications ] .
Rifampin ( strong CYP enzyme inducer ) : Administration of rifampin 600 mg once daily for 11 days resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80 % ( 40 % to 90 % ) in total exposure to ramelteon and metabolite M - II , ( both AUC0 - inf and Cmax ) after a single 32 mg dose of ROZEREM .
Efficacy may be reduced when ROZEREM is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin .
Ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) : The AUC0 - inf and Cmax of ramelteon increased by approximately 84 % and 36 % , respectively , when a single 16 mg dose of ROZEREM was administered on the fourth day of ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily administration , compared to administration of ROZEREM alone .
Similar increases were seen in M - II pharmacokinetic variables .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole .
Fluconazole ( strong CYP2C9 inhibitor ) : The total and peak systemic exposure ( AUC0 - inf and Cmax ) of ramelteon after a single 16 mg dose of ROZEREM was increased by approximately 150 % when administered with fluconazole .
Similar increases were also seen in M - II exposure .
ROZEREM should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole .
Interaction studies of concomitant administration of ROZEREM with fluoxetine ( CYP2D6 inhibitor ) , omeprazole ( CYP1A2 inducer / CYP2C19 inhibitor ) , theophylline ( CYP1A2 substrate ) , and dextromethorphan ( CYP2D6 substrate ) did not produce clinically meaningful changes in either peak or total exposures to ramelteon or the M - II metabolite .
Effects of ROZEREM on Metabolism of Other Drugs Concomitant administration of ROZEREM with omeprazole ( CYP2C19 substrate ) , dextromethorphan ( CYP2D6 substrate ) , midazolam ( CYP3A4 substrate ) , theophylline ( CYP1A2 substrate ) , digoxin ( p - glycoprotein substrate ) and warfarin ( CYP2C9 [ S ] / CYP1A2 [ R ] substrate ) did not produce clinically meaningful changes in peak and total exposures to these drugs .
Effect of Alcohol on ROZEREM With single - dose , daytime co - administration of ROZEREM 32 mg and alcohol ( 0 . 6 g / kg ) , there were no clinically meaningful or statistically significant effects on peak or total exposure to ROZEREM .
However , an additive effect was seen on some measures of psychomotor performance ( i . e . , the Digit Symbol Substitution Test , the Psychomotor Vigilance Task Test , and a Visual Analog Scale of Sedation ) at some post - dose time points .
No additive effect was seen on the Delayed Word Recognition Test .
Because alcohol by itself impairs performance , and the intended effect of ROZEREM is to promote sleep , patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ROZEREM .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Ramelteon was administered to mice and rats at oral doses of 0 , 30 , 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day ( mice ) and 0 , 15 , 60 , 250 , or 1000 mg / kg / day ( rats ) .
Mice and rats were dosed for two years , except at the high dose ( 94 weeks for male and female mice and female rats ) .
In mice , dose - related increases in the incidence of hepatic tumors ( adenomas , carcinomas , hepatoblastomas ) were observed in males and females .
The no - effect dose for hepatic tumors in mice ( 30 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 20 times the recommended human dose ( RHD ) of 8 mg / day on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
In rats , the incidence of hepatic adenoma and benign Leydig cell tumors of the testis was increased in males at doses ≥ 250 mg / kg / day .
In females , the incidence of hepatic adenoma was increased at doses ≥ 60 mg / kg / day .
The incidence of hepatic carcinoma was increased in males and female rats at 1000 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose for tumors in rats ( 15 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 20 times the RHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Ramelteon was not genotoxic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , the in vitro mouse lymphoma TK + / - assay , and in invivo oral micronucleus assays in mouse and rat .
Ramelteon was clastogenic in the invitro chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster lung cells .
Separate studies indicated that the concentration of the M - II metabolite formed in the presence of metabolic activation exceeded the concentration of ramelteon ; therefore , the genotoxic potential of the M - II metabolite was also assessed in the in vitro studies .
Impairment of Fertility When ramelteon ( doses of 6 to 600 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally to male and female rats prior to and during mating and early gestation , alterations in estrus cyclicity and decreased numbers of corpora lutea , implantations , and live embryos were observed at doses greater than 20 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose is approximately 24 times the recommended human dose of 8 mg / day on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Oral administration of ramelteon ( up to 600 mg / kg / day ) to male rats had no effects on sperm quality or reproductive performance .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Controlled Clinical Trials Chronic Insomnia Three randomized , double - blind trials in subjects with chronic insomnia employing polysomnography ( PSG ) were provided as objective support of Rozerem ’ s effectiveness in sleep initiation .
One study enrolled younger adults ( aged 18 to 64 years , inclusive ) with chronic insomnia and employed a parallel design in which the subjects received a single , nightly dose of ROZEREM ( 8 mg or 16 mg ) or matching placebo for 35 days .
PSG was performed on the first two nights in each of Weeks 1 , 3 , and 5 of treatment .
ROZEREM reduced the average latency to persistent sleep at each of the time points when compared to placebo .
The 16 mg dose conferred no additional benefit for sleep initiation .
The second study employing PSG was a three - period crossover trial performed in subjects aged 65 years and older with a history of chronic insomnia .
Subjects received ROZEREM ( 4 mg or 8 mg ) or placebo and underwent PSG assessment in a sleep laboratory for two consecutive nights in each of the three study periods .
Both doses of ROZEREM reduced latency to persistent sleep when compared to placebo .
The third study evaluated long term efficacy and safety in adults with chronic insomnia .
Subjects received a single , nightly dose of ROZEREM 8 mg or matching placebo for 6 months .
PSG was performed on the first two nights of Week 1 and Months 1 , 3 , 5 , and 6 .
ROZEREM reduced sleep latency at each time point when compared to placebo .
In this study , when the PSG results from nights 1 and 2 of Month 7 were compared to the results from nights 22 and 23 of Month 6 , there was a statistically significant increase in LPS of 33 % ( 9 . 5 minutes ) in the ramelteon group .
There was no increase in LPS in the placebo group when the same time periods were compared .
A randomized , double - blind , parallel group study was conducted in outpatients aged 65 years and older with chronic insomnia and employed subjective measures of efficacy ( sleep diaries ) .
Subjects received ROZEREM ( 4 mg or 8 mg ) or placebo for 35 nights .
ROZEREM reduced patient - reported sleep latency compared to placebo .
A similarly designed study performed in younger adults ( aged 18 - 64 years ) using 8 mg and 16 mg of ramelteon did not replicate this finding of reduced patient - reported sleep latency compared to placebo .
While the 16 mg dose was evaluated as a potential treatment for adults , it was shown to confer no additional benefit for sleep initiation and was associated with higher incidences of fatigue , headache and next - day somnolence .
Transient Insomnia In a randomized , double - blind , parallel - group trial using a first - night - effect model , healthy adults received placebo or ROZEREM before spending one night in a sleep laboratory and being evaluated with PSG .
ROZEREM demonstrated a decrease in mean latency to persistent sleep as compared to placebo .
14 . 2 Studies Pertinent to Safety Concerns for Sleep - promoting Drugs Results from Human Laboratory Abuse Liability Studies A human laboratory abuse potential study was performed in 14 subjects with a history of sedative / hypnotic or anxiolytic drug abuse .
Subjects received single oral doses of ROZEREM ( 16 , 80 , or 160 mg ) , triazolam ( 0 . 25 , 0 . 50 , or 0 . 75 mg ) or placebo .
All subjects received each of the 7 treatments separated by a wash - out period and underwent multiple standard tests of abuse potential .
No differences in subjective responses indicative of abuse potential were found between ROZEREM and placebo at doses up to 20 times the recommended therapeutic dose .
The positive control drug , triazolam , consistently showed a dose - response effect on these subjective measures , as demonstrated by the differences from placebo in peak effect and overall 24 - hour effect .
Residual Pharmacological Effect in Insomnia Trials In order to evaluate potential next - day residual effects , the following scales were used : a Memory Recall Test , a Word List Memory Test , a Visual Analog Mood and Feeling Scale , the Digit - Symbol Substitution Test , and a post - sleep questionnaire to assess alertness and ability to concentrate .
There was no evidence of next - day residual effect seen after 2 nights of ramelteon use during the crossover studies .
In a 35 - night , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study in adults with chronic insomnia , measures of residual effects were performed at three time points .
Overall , the magnitudes of any observed differences were small .
At Week 1 , patients who received 8 mg of ROZEREM had a mean VAS score ( 46 mm on a 100 mm scale ) indicating more fatigue in comparison to patients who received placebo ( 42 mm ) .
At Week 3 , patients who received 8 mg of ROZEREM had a lower mean score for immediate recall ( 7 . 5 out of 16 words ) compared to patients who received placebo ( 8 . 2 words ) ; and the patients treated with ROZEREM had a mean VAS score indicating more sluggishness ( 27 mm on a 100 mm VAS ) in comparison to the placebo - treated patients ( 22 mm ) .
Patients who received ROZEREM did not have next - morning residual effects that were different from placebo at Week 5 .
Rebound Insomnia / Withdrawal Potential rebound insomnia and withdrawal effects were assessed in four studies in which subjects received ROZEREM or placebo for up to 6 months ; 3 were 35 - day studies , one was a 6 month study .
These studies included a total of 2533 subjects , of whom 854 were elderly .
Tyrer Benzodiazepine Withdrawal Symptom Questionnaire ( BWSQ ) : The BWSQ is a self - report questionnaire that solicits specific information on 20 symptoms commonly experienced during withdrawal from benzodiazepine receptor agonists ; ROZEREM is not a benzodiazepine receptor agonist .
In two of the three 35 - day insomnia studies , the questionnaire was administered one week after completion of treatment ; in the third study , the questionnaire was administered on Days 1 and 2 after completion .
In all three of the 35 - day studies , subjects receiving ROZEREM 4 mg , 8 mg , or 16 mg daily reported BWSQ scores similar to those of subjects receiving placebo .
In the 6 month study , there was no evidence of withdrawal from the 8 mg dose as measured by the BWSQ .
Rebound Insomnia : Rebound insomnia was assessed in the 35 - day studies by measuring sleep latency after abrupt treatment discontinuation .
One of these studies employed PSG in younger adult subjects receiving ROZEREM 8 mg or 16 mg ; the other two studies employed subjective measures of sleep - onset insomnia in elderly subjects receiving ROZEREM 4 mg or 8 mg , and in younger adult subjects receiving ROZEREM 8 mg or 16 mg .
There was no evidence that ROZEREM caused rebound insomnia during the post - treatment period .
14 . 3 Studies to Evaluate Effects on Endocrine Function Two controlled studies evaluated the effects of ROZEREM on endocrine function .
In the first trial , ROZEREM 16 mg once daily or placebo was administered to 99 healthy volunteer subjects for 4 weeks .
This study evaluated the thyroid axis , adrenal axis and reproductive axis .
No clinically significant endocrinopathies were demonstrated in this study .
However , the study was limited in its ability to detect such abnormalities due to its limited duration .
In the second trial , ROZEREM 16 mg once daily or placebo was administered to 122 subjects with chronic insomnia for 6 months .
This study evaluated the thyroid axis , adrenal axis and reproductive axis .
There were no significant abnormalities seen in either the thyroid or the adrenal axes .
Abnormalities were , however , noted within the reproductive axis .
Overall , the mean serum prolactin level change from baseline was 4 . 9 μg / L ( 34 % increase ) for women in the ROZEREM group compared with − 0 . 6 μg / L ( 4 % decrease ) for women in the placebo group ( p = 0 . 003 ) .
No differences between active - and placebo - treated groups occurred among men .
Thirty - two percent of all patients who were treated with ramelteon in this study ( women and men ) had prolactin levels that increased from normal baseline levels compared to 19 % of patients who were treated with placebo .
Subject - reported menstrual patterns were similar between the two treatment groups .
In a 12 - month , open - label study in adult and elderly patients , there were two patients who were noted to have abnormal morning cortisol levels , and subsequent abnormal ACTH stimulation tests .
A 29 - year - old female patient was diagnosed with a prolactinoma .
The relationship of these events to ROZEREM therapy is not clear .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ROZEREM is available as round , pale orange - yellow , film - coated , 8 mg tablets , with “ TAK ” and “ RAM - 8 ” printed on one side , in the following quantities : NDC 21695 - 183 - 30 Bottles of 30 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed and protected from moisture and humidity .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Prescribers or other healthcare professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with hypnotics , should counsel them in their appropriate use and should instruct them to read the accompanying Medication Guide [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 1 Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients that severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have occurred with ramelteon .
Describe the relevant signs / symptoms and advise seeking immediate medical attention if any such things occur .
17 . 2 Sleep - driving and other Complex Behaviors There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a sleep medication and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If a patient experiences such an episode , it should be reported to his or her doctor immediately , since " sleep - driving " can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when sleep medications are taken with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sleep medication .
As with sleep - driving , patients usually do not remember these events .
17 . 3 Endocrine Effects Patients should consult their health care providers if they experience one of the following : cessation of menses or galactorrhea in females , decreased libido , or problems with fertility .
Describe the relevant signs / symptoms and advise seeking medical attention if any such things occur .
17 . 4 Administration Instructions • Patients should be advised to take ROZEREM within 30 minutes prior to going to bed and should confine their activities to those necessary to prepare for bed .
• Patients should be advised that they should not take ROZEREM with or immediately after a high - fat meal .
• Do not break the tablet ; it should be swallowed whole .
17 . 5 Medication Guide See attached leaflet .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited 540 - 8645 Osaka , JAPAN Manufactured in : Takeda Ireland Ltd .
Kilruddery , County Wicklow , Republic of Ireland Distributed by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
Deerfield , IL 60015 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 ROZEREM ® is a registered trademark of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and used under license by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
© 2005 , 2008 Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
05 - 1143 Revised : 10 / 2008 MEDICATION GUIDE ROZEREM ® ( rō - Zair - em ) ( ramelteon ) Read the Medication Guide that comes with ROZEREM before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about ROZEREM ?
ROZEREM may cause severe allergic reactions .
Symptoms include swelling of the tongue or throat , trouble breathing , and nausea and vomiting .
Get emergency medical help if you get these symptoms after taking ROZEREM .
After taking ROZEREM , you may get up out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
The next morning , you may not remember that you did anything during the night .
You have a higher chance for doing these activities if you drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy with ROZEREM .
Activities may include : • driving a car ( " sleep - driving " ) • making and eating food • talking on the phone • having sex • sleep - walking Call your doctor right away if you find out that you have done any of the above activities after taking ROZEREM .
Important : 1 .
Take ROZEREM exactly as prescribed • Do not take more ROZEREM than prescribed .
• Take ROZEREM within 30 minutes of going to bed , not sooner .
2 .
Do not take ROZEREM if you : • drink alcohol • take other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Talk to your doctor about all of your medicines .
Your doctor will tell you if you can take ROZEREM with your other medicines .
• cannot get a full night ’ s sleep WHAT IS ROZEREM ?
ROZEREM is a hypnotic ( sleep ) medicine .
ROZEREM is used in adults for the treatment of the symptom of trouble falling asleep from insomnia .
ROZEREM is not for children .
Who should not take ROZEREM ?
Do not take ROZEREM if you are allergic to anything in it .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ROZEREM .
Do not take ROZEREM if you are currently taking Luvox ( fluvoxamine ) .
ROZEREM may not be right for you .
Before starting ROZEREM , tell your doctor about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have a history of depression , mental illness , or suicidal thoughts • have liver disease • have a lung disease or breathing problems • are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Medicines can interact with each other , sometimes causing serious side effects .
Do not take ROZEREM with : • other medicines that can make you sleepy • Luvox ® ( fluvoxamine ) Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take ROZEREM ?
• Take ROZEREM exactly as prescribed .
Do not take more ROZEREM than prescribed for you .
• Do not break the tablets .
They should be swallowed whole .
• Take ROZEREM within 30 minutes of going to bed .
After taking ROZEREM only do activities to get ready for bed .
• Do not take ROZEREM with or right after a meal .
• Do not take ROZEREM unless you are able to get a full night ’ s sleep before you must be active again .
• Call your doctor if your insomnia worsens or is not better within 7 - 10 days .
This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problems .
• If you take too much ROZEREM or overdose , call your doctor or poison control center right away , or get emergency treatment .
What are the possible side effects of ROZEREM ?
Possible serious side effects of ROZEREM include : • severe allergic reactions .
Symptoms include swelling of the tongue or throat , trouble breathing , and nausea and vomiting .
Get emergency medical help if you get these symptoms after taking ROZEREM .
• getting out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
( See “ What is the most important information I should know about ROZEREM ? ” )
• abnormal thoughts and behavior .
Symptoms include worsening of depression , suicidal thoughts or actions , nightmares , and hallucinations .
• hormone effects .
ROZEREM can decrease testosterone levels and increase prolactin levels in the blood .
Symptoms of low testosterone or high prolactin levels are : o decreased interest in sex o problems getting pregnant o irregular menstrual periods or no menstrual periods o leakage of milk from the nipples of a person who is not breastfeeding Call your doctor right away if you have any of the above side effects or any other side effects that worry you while using ROZEREM .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
The most common side effects of ROZEREM are : • drowsiness • tiredness • dizziness • You may still feel drowsy the next day after taking ROZEREM .
Do not drive or do other dangerous activities after taking ROZEREM until you feel fully awake .
These are not all the side effects of ROZEREM .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I Store ROZEREM ?
• Store ROZEREM tablets at room temperature , 59 ˚ to 86 ˚ F ( 15 ˚ to 30 ˚ C ) .
Keep the container tightly closed and protected from moisture and humidity .
• Keep ROZEREM and all medicines out of reach of children .
General Information about ROZEREM • Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
• Do not use ROZEREM for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
• Do not share ROZEREM with other people , even if you think they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about ROZEREM .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about ROZEREM that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about ROZEREM , please call Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc . at 1 - 877 - TAKEDA - 7 or visit www . rozerem . com .
What are the ingredients in ROZEREM ?
Active Ingredient : ramelteon Inactive Ingredients : lactose monohydrate , starch , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , copovidone , titanium dioxide , yellow ferric oxide , polyethylene glycol 8000 , and ink containing shellac and synthetic iron oxide black .
Rx Only This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
05 - 1143 - MG Revised : 10 / 2008 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tablets NDC 21695 - 183 - 30 30 Tablets Rozerem ® ( ramelteon tablets ) 8 mg Each film - coated tablet contains 8 mg of ramelteon .
Dispense with Medication Guide in package insert or at www . rozerem . com Takeda Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
