DESCRIPTION Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets are supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Each tablet contains : Acetaminophen ִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִ 712 . 8 mg Caffeine ִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִ 60 mg Dihydrocodeine * bitartrate ִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִִ 32 mg * Warning : May be habit forming Acetaminophen ( 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide ) , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caffeine ( 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine ) , a bitter , white crystalline powder , is a central nervous system stimulant .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate ( 4 , 5 a - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmDihydrocodeine Bitartrate ( 4 , 5 a - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmDihydrocodeine Bitartrate ( 4 , 5 a - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmDihydrocodeine Bitartrate ( 4 , 5 a - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 a - ol ( + ) - tartrate ) , an odorless , fine white powder is an opioid analgesic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] In addition , each tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , stearic acid .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets contain dihydrocodeine which is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic related to codeine , with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine ; the most prominent of these involve the central nervous system and organs with smooth muscle components .
The principal action of therapeutic value is analgesia .
This combination product also contains acetaminophen , a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
This combination product contains caffeine as an analgesic adjuvant .
Caffeine is also a central nervous system and cardiovascular stimulant .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This combination product is contraindicated in persons with hypersensitivity to dihydrocodeine , codeine , acetaminophen , caffeine , or any of the inactive components listed above , or any situation where opioids are contraindicated including significant respiratory depression ( in unmonitored settings or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ) , acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercapnia , and paralytic ileus .
WARNINGS : Usage in Ambulatory Patients : Dihydrocodeine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Respiratory Depression : Respiratory depression is the most dangerous acute reaction produced by opioid agonist preparations , although it is rarely severe with usual doses .
Opioids decrease the respiratory rate , tidal volume , minute ventilation , and sensitivity to carbon dioxide .
Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients , usually after large initial doses in nontolerant patients , or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration .
This combination product should be used with caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or corpulmonale and in patients with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or respiratory depression .
In such patients , alternative non - opioid analgesics should be considered , and opioids should be admin - istered only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose .
Head Injury : This combination product should be used cautiously in the presence of head injury or increased intracranial pressure .
The effects of opioids on pupillary response and consciousness may obscure neurologic signs of increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries .
The respiratory depressant effects including carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , intracranial lesions , or other causes of increased intracranial pressures .
Hypotensive Effect : Dihydrocodeine , like all opioid analgesics , may cause hypotension in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume or who receive concurrent therapy with drugs such as phenothiazines or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone .
Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
This combination product should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock , since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
Drug Dependence Dihydrocodeine can produce drug dependence of the codeine type and has the potential of being abused ( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Selection of patients for treatment with Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets should be governed by the same principles that apply to the use of similar opioid / non - opioid fixed combination analgesics .
As with any such opioid analgesic , the dosing regimen should be adjusted for each patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
This combination product should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients or those with any of the following conditions : acute alcoholism ; adrenocortical insufficiency ( e . g . , Addison ' s disease ) ; asthma ; central nervous system depression or coma ; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ; decreased respiratory reserve ( including emphysema , severe obesity , cor pulmonale , or kyphoscoliosis ) ; delirium tremens ; head injury ; hypotension ; increased intracranial pressure ; myxedema or hypothyroidism ; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture ; and toxic psychosis .
The benefits and risks of using opioids in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors and in those with a history of drug abuse should be carefully considered .
The administration of an analgesic containing an opioid may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
This combination product may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders and , like all opioids , may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings .
Acetaminophen is relatively non - toxic at therapeutic doses , but should be used with caution in patients with severe renal or hepatic disease .
Care should be observed when using large doses of acetaminophen in malnourished patients or those with a history of chronic alcohol abuse because they may be more susceptible to hepatic damage similar to that observed with toxic overdosage .
Caffeine in high doses may produce central nervous system and cardiovascular stimulation and gastrointestinal irritation .
Drug - Drug Interactions : Dihydrocodeine with Other Central Nervous System Depressants : Patients receiving other opioid analgesics , sedatives or hypnotics , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , centrally acting anti - emetics , phenothiazines or other tranquilizers , or alcohol concomitantly with this combination product may exhibit additive depressant effects on the central nervous system .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
Dihydrocodeine with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors : Dihydrocodeine , like all opioid analgesics , interacts with monoamine oxidase inhibitors causing central nervous system excitation and hypertension .
Dihydrocodeine with Mixed Agonist / Antagonist Opioid Analgesics : Agonist / antagonist analgesics ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , butorphanol and buprenorphine ) may reduce the analgesic effect of this combination product .
Acetaminophen - Drug Interactions : Chronic and excessive consumption of alcohol may increase the hepatotoxic risk of acetaminophen .
The potential for hepatotoxicity with acetaminophen also may be increased in patients receiving anticonvulsants that induce hepatic microsomal enzymes ( including phenytoin , barbiturates , and carbamazepine ) or isoniazide .
Chronic ingestion of large doses of acetaminophen may slightly potentiate the effects of warfarin - and indandione - derivative anticoagulants .
Severe hypothermia is possible in patients receiving acetaminophen concomitantly with phenothiazines .
Caffeine - Drug Interactions : Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta - adrenergic stimulating agents .
Coadministration of caffeine and disulfiram may lead to a substantial decrease in caffeine clearance .
Caffeine may increase the metabolism of other drugs such as phenobarbital and aspirin .
Caffeine accumulation may occur when products or foods containing caffeine are consumed concomitantly with quinolones such as ciprofloxacin .
Information for Patients / Caregivers : Patients receiving Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets should be given the following information : • Patients should be advised that Acetaminophen , caffeine and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablet may impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
• Patients should be advised to report adverse experiences occurring during therapy .
• Patients should be advised not to adjust the dose of Acetaminophen , caffeine and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablet without consulting the prescribing professional .
• Patients should not combine Acetaminophen , caffeine and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablet with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants ( sleep aids , tranquilizers ) except by the orders of the prescribing physician , because additive effects may occur .
• Women of childbearing potential who become , or are planning to become , pregnant should be advised to consult their physician regarding the effects of analgesics and other drug use during pregnancy on themselves and their unborn child .
• Patients should be advised that Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets are a potential drug of abuse .
They should protect it from theft , and it should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom it was prescribed .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets .
It is also not known whether this combination product can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity in males and females .
This combination product should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed , especially during the first trimester .
Labor and Delivery : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets are not recommended for use by women during and immediately before labor and delivery because oral opioids may cause respiratory depression in the newborn .
Nursing Mothers : Dihydrocodeine bitartrate , acetaminophen and caffeine tablets are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from this combination product , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets should be given with caution to the elderly .
Hepatic Impairment : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets should be given with caution to patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Since dihydrocodeine is metabolized by the liver and since acetaminophen potentially causes hepatotoxicity , the effects of this combination product should be monitored closely in such patients .
Renal Impairment : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets should be used with caution and at reduced dosage in the presence of impaired renal function .
Pancreatic / Biliary Tract Disease : Opioids may cause spasms of the sphincter of Oddi and should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Dihydrocodeine : The most frequently observed adverse reactions include light - headedness , dizziness , drowsiness , headache , fatigue , sedation , sweating , nausea , vomiting , constipation , pruritus , and skin reactions .
With the exception of constipation , tolerance develops to most of these effects .
Other reactions that have been observed with dihydrocodeine or other opioids include respiratory depression , orthostatic hypotension , cough suppression , confusion , diarrhea , miosis , abdominal pain , dry mouth , indigestion , anorexia , spasm of biliary tract , and urinary retention .
Physical and psychological dependence are possibilities .
Hypersensitivity reactions ( including anaphylactoid reactions ) , hallucinations , vivid dreams , granulomatous interstitial nephritis , severe narcosis and acute renal failure have been reported rarely during dihydrocodeine administration .
Acetaminophen : Acetaminophen in therapeutic doses rarely causes adverse reactions .
The most serious adverse reaction is hepatoxicity from overdosage ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , and agranulocytosis have been reported in patients receiving acetaminophen or p - aminophenol derivatives .
Hypersensitivity reactions including urticarial or erythematous skin reactions , laryngeal edema , angioedema , or anaphylactoid reactions are rare .
Caffeine : Adverse reactions associated with caffeine use include anxiety , anxiety neurosis , excitement , headaches , insomnia , irritability , lightheadedness , restlessness , tenseness , tremor , extrasystoles , palpitations , tachycardia , diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain , vomiting , diuresis , urticarcia , scintillating scotoma , and tinnitus .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : This combination product is subject to the provisions of the Controlled Substance Act , and has been placed in Schedule III .
Dihydrocodeine can produce drug dependence of the codeine type and therefore has the potential of being abused .
Like other opioid analgesics , dihydrocodeine may produce subjective effects other than analgesia ( e . g . , euphoria , relaxation ) , which may contribute to abuse by some patients .
Psychological dependence , physical dependence , and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of dihydrocodeine , and It should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other oral opioid analgesic medications .
Symptoms of dihydrocodeine withdrawal consist of irritability , restlessness , insomnia , diaphoresis , anxiety and palpitations .
Prolonged , high intake of caffeine may produce tolerance and habituation .
Physical signs of withdrawal , such as headaches , irritation , nervousness , anxiety , and dizziness may occur upon abrupt discontinuation .
OVERDOSAGE : Following an acute overdosage with Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets , toxicity may result from the dihydrocodeine , acetaminophen , or , less likely , caffeine component .
An overdose is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose situation , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
A listing of the poison control centers can be found in standard references such as the Physician ' s Desk Reference ® .
Signs and Symptoms and Laboratory Findings : Toxicity from dihydrocodeine is typical of opioids and includes pinpoint pupils , respiratory depression , and loss of consciousness .
Convulsions , cardiovascular collapse , and death may occur .
A single case of acute rhabdomyolysis associated with an overdose of dihydrocodeine has been reported .
With acetaminophen , dose - dependent potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may occur .
Early symptoms of hepatotoxicity include nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours after ingestion .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , delirium , tachycardia , extrasystoles , and seizures .
Because overdose information on this combination product is limited , it is unclear which of the signs and symptoms of toxicity would manifest in any particular overdose situation .
Treatment : Immediate treatment of an overdosage of Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should be induced with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert and has adequate laryngeal reflexes .
Oral activated charcoal should follow .
The first dose of charcoal should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic .
Gastric lavage may be necessary .
Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should be treated with fluids .
Endotracheal intubation and artificial respiration may be necessary .
Peritoneal or hemodialysis may be necessary .
If hypoprothrombinemia occurs , Vitamin K should be administered .
A pure opioid antagonist , such as naloxone or nalmefene , is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which results from opioid overdose .
Opioid antagonists should not be given in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to opioid overdose .
They should be administered cautiously to persons who are known , or suspected to be , physically dependent on any opioid agonist including Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets .
In such cases , an abrupt or complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute abstinence syndrome .
The prescribing information for the specific opioid antagonist should be consulted for details of their proper use .
In adults and adolescents , regardless of the quantity of acetaminophen reported to have been ingested , acetylcysteine should be administered immediately if 24 hours or less have elapsed from the reported time of ingestion .
It is not advisable to await the plasma concentration determination of acetaminophen before administering acetylcysteine .
Serum liver enzyme levels should be measured .
Therapy in children involves a similar treatment scheme ; however , a regional Poison Control Center should be contacted .
No specific antidote is available for caffeine .
In addition to the supportive measures above , administration of demulcents such as aluminum hydroxide gel may diminish gastrointestinal irritation .
Seizures may be treated with intravenous diazepam or a barbiturate .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dosage is one ( 1 ) Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets orally every four ( 4 ) hours , as needed .
Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
No more than one ( 1 ) tablet should be taken in a 4 - hour period .
No more than five ( 5 ) doses , or five ( 5 ) tablets should be taken in a 24 - hour period .
HOW SUPPLIED : Acetaminophen , caffeine , and dihydrocodeine bitartrate tablets , containing acetaminophen 712 . 8 mg , caffeine 60 mg and dihydrocodeine * bitartrate 32 mg ( * Warning : May be habit - forming ) .
Tablets are white , oval - shaped single scored and are debossed “ Boca ” on one side and “ 611 ” on the other side ; are supplied in Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5900 - 0 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Boca Pharmacal , Inc .
Coral Springs , FL 33065 www . bocapharmacal . com Rev . 06 / 09 Physician ’ s Desk Reference ® is the registered trademark of Thomson Healthcare , Inc .
Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Dihydrocodeine / Acetaminophen / Caffeine 32 mg / 712 . 8 mg / 60 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
