Active ingredient Purpose Benzoyl Peroxide , 2 . 5 % ....................................... Acne Treatment Use - for the management of acne Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
- cover the entire affected area with a thin film 1 - 3 times daily - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily and then increase to 2 or 3 times if needed or as directed by a doctor .
- if bothersome drying or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day - if going outside , use a sunscreen Other Information - this product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics - avoid storing at extreme temperatures ( below 40 degrees F and above 100 degrees F ) Warnings For external use only .
Do not use this medication if you have very sensitive skin or if you are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product .
This may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water - Keep away from lips and mouth - Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
- cover the entire affected area with a thin film 1 - 3 times daily - because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily and then increase to 2 or 3 times if needed or as directed by a doctor .
- if bothersome drying or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day - if going outside , use a sunscreen Other Information - this product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics - avoid storing at extreme temperatures ( below 40 degrees F and above 100 degrees F ) Inactive Ingredients purified water , cetearyl alcohol , ceteraeth - 20 , ethoxydiglycol , cyclotetrasilozane , propylene glycol , dimethicone , glyceryl stearate , cyclopentasiloxane , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , PEG - 100 stearate , panthenol , allantonin , triethanolamine , carbomer , fragrance , xanthan gum [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
