RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration , Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container ( 2 . 3 ) 10 / 2020 Dosage and Administration , Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container ( 2 . 3 ) 10 / 2020 Recommended Dosage and Monitoring in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2 . 5 ) 8 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Selenious Acid Injection is indicated in adult and pediatric patients as a source of selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Selenious Acid Injectionis a trace element indicated in adult and pediatric patients as a source of selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pharmacy Bulk Package or Single - Dose Vial : Not for direct intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , and general dosing considerations .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 5 ) • Selenious Acid Injection provides 60 mcg / mL of selenium .
• Selenious Acid Injection in a concentration of 6 mcg / mL is recommended for use in pediatric patients , particularly those weighing 7 kg or less .
• Individualize the dosage based upon the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral selenium intake .
The following dosages are general recommendations intended for most patients .
However , based upon clinical requirements , some patients may require a higher dosage : ○ Adults : 60 mcg / day ○ Pediatric Patients 7 kg and above : 2 mcg / kg / day ( up to 60 mcg / day ) ○ Pediatric Patients less than 7 kg : 2 to 4 mcg / kg / day • Monitor selenium concentrations during treatment .
2 . 1 Important Administration Information Selenious Acid Injection is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package or single - dose vial for admixing use only .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Selenious Acid Injectionmust be transferred to a separate parenteral nutrition container , prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solutions .
The Pharmacy Bulk Package vial of Selenious Acid Injection is intended for dispensing of single doses to multiple patients in a pharmacy admixture program .
The final parenteral nutrition solution is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
The choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central venous catheter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • Selenious Acid Injection is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Selenious Acid Injection must be prepared and used as an admixture inparenteral nutrition solutions .
• Selenious Acid Injection is to be prepared only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients .
• Visually inspect the prepared parenteral nutrition solution containing Selenious Acid Injection for particulate matter before admixing , after admixing , and prior to administration .
2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container • Inspect Selenious Acid Injection vials for particulate matter .
• Transfer Selenious Acid Injection to the parenteral nutrition solution following the admixture of amino acids , dextrose , lipid ( if added ) , and electrolytes solutions .
• Because additives may be incompatible , evaluate all additions to the parenteral nutrition container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Questions about compatibility may be directed to America Regent .
If it is deemed advisable to introduce additives to the parenteral nutrition container , use aseptic technique .
• Inspect the final parenteral nutrition containing Selenious Acid Injection to ensure that : • Precipitates have not formed during mixing or addition of additives .
• The admixed emulsion has not separated , if a lipid emulsion has been added .
Separation of the admixed emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking of the accumulation of yellowish droplets .
• Discard if any precipitates are observed .
Stability and Storage • Single - dose vial ( 2 mL ) : Discard unused portion .
• Pharmacy Bulk Package vial ( 10 mL ) : Penetrate vial closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the content .
• Use Selenious Acid Injection for admixing promptly once the sterile transfer set has been inserted into the Pharmacy Bulk Package container or not more than 4 hours at room temperature ( 25ºC / 77ºF ) after the container closure has been penetrated .
Discard any remaining drug .
• Use parenteral nutrition solutions containing Selenious Acid Injection promptly after mixing .
Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration from 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) and limited to a period of time no longer than 9 days .
After removal from refrigeration , use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours .
Discard any remaining admixture .
• Protect the admixed parenteral nutrition solution from light .
2 . 4 Dosing Considerations • The dosage of the final parenteral nutrition containing Selenious Acid Injection must be based on the concentrations of all components in the solution and the recommended daily nutritional requirements [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Consult the prescribing information of all added components to determine the recommended nutritional requirements for dextrose , amino acids and lipid emulsion , as applicable .
• Prior to administration of parenteral nutrition solution containing Selenious Acid Injection , correct severe fluid , electrolyte and acid - base disorders .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage and Monitoring in Adults and Pediatric Patients • There are two dosage strengths for Selenious Acid Injection : 6 mcg / mL and 60 mcg / mL of selenium .
• Selenious Acid Injection in a concentration of 6 mcg / mL is recommended for use in pediatric patients , particularly those weighing 7 kg or less .
• The dosage of Selenious Acid Injection should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral selenium intake .
• The dosages in Table 1 are general recommendations intended for most patients .
However , based on clinical requirements , some patients may require a higher dosage .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage of Selenious Acid Injection for Adults and Pediatric Patients by Estimated Weight Population Recommended Dosage Adults 60 mcg / day Pediatric Patients 7 kg and above 2 mcg / kg / day ( up to 60 mcg / day ) Pediatric Patients less than 7 kg 2 to 4 mcg / kg / day • Monitor selenium concentrations during treatment .
Selenium concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Selenious Acid Injection , USP is a clear colorless solution available in the following : • Pharmacy Bulk Package : 600 mcg / 10 mL ( 60 mcg / mL ) of selenium • Single - Dose Vial : 12 mcg / 2 mL ( 6 mcg / mL ) of selenium Selenious Acid Injection , USP : ( 3 ) • Pharmacy Bulk Package : 600 mcg / 10 mL ( 60 mcg / mL ) of selenium • Single - Dose Vial : 12 mcg / 2 mL ( 6 mcg / mL ) of selenium 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates : If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or more must be infused through a central venous catheter .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : Increased risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants .
( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Monitor selenium concentrations , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters throughout treatment .
( 5 . 4 , 2 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates Pulmonary vascular precipitates causing pulmonary vascular emboli and pulmonary distress have been reported in patients receiving parenteral nutrition .
The cause of precipitate formation has not been determined in all cases ; however , in some fatal cases , pulmonary emboli occurred as a result of calcium phosphate precipitates .
Precipitation has occurred following passage through an in - line filter ; in vivo precipitate formation may also have occurred .
If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the parenteral nutrition infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
In addition to inspection of the solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] , the infusion set and catheter should also periodically be checked for precipitates .
5 . 2 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Selenious Acid Injection has a low pH and must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solutions .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
In addition , consider the osmolarity of the final parenteral nutrition solution in determining peripheral versus central administration .
Solutions with an osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient injections into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 3 Aluminum Toxicity Selenious Acid Injection contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Preterm infants are particularly at risk for aluminum toxicity because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which also contain aluminum .
Patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm neonates , who receive greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day of parenteral aluminum can accumulate aluminum to levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Exposure to aluminum from Selenious Acid Injection is not more than 0 . 6 mcg / kg / day .
When prescribing Selenious Acid Injection for use in parenteral nutrition containing other small volume parenteral products , the total daily patient exposure to aluminum from the admixture should be considered and maintained at no more than 5 mcg / kg / day [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Monitor selenium concentrations , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters during treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS No selenium - related adverse reactions have been reported in clinical studies or postmarketing reports in patients receiving intravenously administered parenteral nutrition solutions containing selenious acid within the recommended dosage range .
The following adverse reactions associated with use of other components of parenteral nutrition solutions were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] No selenium - related adverse reactions in patients receiving intravenously administered parenteral nutrition solutions containing selenious acid within the recommended dosage range .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact American Regent Inc . at 1 - 800 - 734 - 9236 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Administration of the recommended dose of Selenious Acid Injection in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with intravenous selenious acid .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
n the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo - Fetal Risk Deficiency of trace elements , including selenium , is associated with adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes .
Pregnant women have an increased metabolic demand for trace elements , including selenium .
Parenteral nutrition with selenium should be considered if a pregnant woman ’ s nutritional requirements cannot be fulfilled by oral or enteral intake .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Selenium is present in human milk .
Administration of the approved recommended dose of Selenious Acid Injection in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause harm to a breastfed infant .
There is no information on the effects of selenious acid on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Selenious Acid Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Selenious Acid Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Selenious Acid Injection is approved for use in the pediatric population , including neonates , as a source of selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on clinical experience [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Because of immature renal function , preterm infants receiving prolonged parenteral nutrition treatment with Selenious Acid Injection may be at higher risk of aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience with intravenous selenious acid has not identified a difference in selenium requirements between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and additional nutritional intake provided orally or enterally to the patient .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no known cases of overdosage with intravenous selenious acid in parenteral nutrition .
Overdosage has been reported with oral selenium .
Available selenium concentrations in these subjects have been reported using various assays and laboratory - based reference ranges over a period of time .
Interpret results in the context of current reported ranges .
For oral selenium , the Tolerable Upper Limit ( UL ) is 400 mcg / day and the No Observed Adverse Effect Level ( NOAEL ) is 800 mcg / day .
The estimated oral bioavailability of selenium is approximately 70 % .
Acute Oral Toxicity Effects Serious adverse events and deaths have been reported with acute oral toxicity , however , there is no clear correlation between the amount ingested , signs and symptoms of toxicity , or selenium blood concentrations .
With severe toxicity , the most common presenting symptoms within a few hours post - ingestion of oral doses greater than 1 gram / day of selenium are gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal pain ) , altered mental status , and “ garlic ” breath odor .
Death from circulatory collapse has been reported after oral ingestion of 5 to 10 grams of selenium .
Selenium serum or blood concentrations in fatal cases have been reported in the range of 190 mcg / dL to 3 , 800 mcg / dL .
Mild to moderate intoxication ( myalgia , muscle spasms , and irritability ) has been reported in patients with selenium serum or blood concentrations in the range of 41 to 750 mcg / dL .
Chronic Selenosis Chronic daily exposure to selenium from dietary sources ( 0 . 003 to 0 . 007 grams / day ) or oral supplements ( 0 . 0016 to 0 . 25 grams / day ) may result in alopecia and nail brittleness .
Other signs include gastrointestinal disturbances , skin rash , garlic breath , fatigue , irritability , and nervous system abnormalities including paresthesia and ataxia .
Selenium serum or blood concentrations in patients in China exposed through oral ( non - dietary ) supplementation were in the range of 32 to 150 mcg / dL .
Management There is no known antidote for acute selenium toxicity .
Management of selenium overdosage is supportive care based on presenting signs and symptoms .
11 DESCRIPTION Selenious Acid Injection , USP is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , clear , colorless solution intended for use as a trace element and additive to intravenous solutions for parenteral nutrition .
Each 600 mcg / 10 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package vial contains 10 mL of selenious acid solution .
Each 6 mcg / mL single - dose vial contains 2 mL of selenious acid solution .
None of the presentations contain preservatives .
Each mL of the 60 mcg / mL strength contains 60 mcg of selenium present as 98 mcg of selenious acid , nitric acid for pH adjustment ( 1 . 8 to 2 . 4 ) , and water for injection q . s . Each mL of the 6 mcg / mL strength contains 6 mcg of selenium present as 9 . 8 mcg of selenious acid , nitric acid for pH adjustment ( 1 . 8 to 2 . 4 ) , and water for injection q . s . Selenious Acid Injection 60 mcg / mL contains no more than 2 , 500 mcg / L of aluminum and has a calculated osmolarity of 16 mOsmol / L .
Selenious Acid Injection 6 mcg / mL contains no more than 900 mcg / L of aluminum and has a calculated osmolarity of 13 mOsmol / L .
Selenious acid has a molecular weight of 128 . 97 g / mol and a formula of H2SeO3 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Selenious acid is converted in vivo to hydrogen selenide via glutathione - involved electron reductions .
Hydrogen selenide acts as a selenium pool to form selenoproteins which include , but are not limited to , glutathione peroxidase , iodothyronine deiodinase , peroxidase and thioredoxins .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Selenious acid exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamic responses is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution In humans 85 % of intravenous administered 75 Se - sodium selenite was protein - bound within 4 to 6 hours and 95 % by 24 hours .
Elimination Selenium is primarily eliminated in urine .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Selenious Acid Injection , USP is a clear , colorless solution available as : • 600 mcg / 10 mL ( 60 mcg / mL ) of selenium in a 10 mL pharmacy bulk package .
Carton of 5 vials ( NDC 0517 - 6560 - 05 ) .
• 12 mcg / 2 mL ( 6 mcg / mL ) of selenium in a 2 mL single - dose vial .
Carton of 10 vials ( NDC 0517 - 6502 - 10 ) .
The vial closure for both presentation is not made with natural rubber latex .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] For storage of admixed solution , see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers or home healthcare providers of the following risks of Selenious Acid Injection : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN6560 Rev . 8 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container Label ( 10 mL ) NDC 0517 - 6560 - 01 Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 600 mcg * / 10 mL ( 60 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PRESERVATIVE FREE 10 mL PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINICIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling ( 10 mL ) NDC 0517 - 6560 - 05 Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 600 mcg * / 10 mL ( 60 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing STERILE .
PRESERVATIVE FREE .
25 x 10 mL VIALS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label ( 10 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container Label ( 2 mL ) NDC 0517 - 6502 - 01 Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 12 mcg * / 2 mL ( 6 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing 2 mL Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling ( 2 mL ) NDC 0517 - 6502 - 10 Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 12 mcg * / 2 mL ( 6 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PRESERVATIVE FREE 10 X 2 mL Single - Dose Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label ( 2 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
