Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each extended - release tablet ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 600 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break extended - release tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older : 1 or 2 extended - release tablets every 12 hours ; not more than 4 extended - release tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone ( K - 30 ) , stearic acid Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
DISTRIBUTED BY THE KROGER CO .
CINCINNATI , OHIO 45202 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 Extended - Release Tablet Blister Pack Carton COMPARE TO the active ingredients of Mucinex ® DM NDC 30142 - 948 - 20 Kroger ® OUR PHARMACIST RECOMMENDED Mucus Relief ER DM Guaifenesin 600 mg & Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Extended - Release Tablets EXPECTORANT & COUGH SUPPRESSANT 12 HOUR • Controls Cough • Thins & Loosens Mucus • Immediate & Extended Release 20 EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
