Lidocaine Patch 5 % Rx Only DESCRIPTION Lidocaine patch 5 % is comprised of an adhesive material containing 5 % lidocaine , USP , which is applied to a white non - woven polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) material backing and covered with a transparent PET release liner .
The release liner is removed prior to application to the skin .
The size of the patch is 10 cm x 14 cm .
Lidocaine , USP is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , has an octanol : water partition ratio of 43 at pH 7 . 4 , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each adhesive patch contains 700 mg of lidocaine , USP ( 50 mg per gram adhesive ) in an aqueous base .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : glycerin , D - sorbitol , propylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , urea , sodium polyacrylate , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , gelatin , polyacrylic acid , kaolin , tartaric acid , dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , methylparaben , propylparaben , and edetate disodium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent and is suggested to stabilize neuronal membranes by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses .
The penetration of lidocaine into intact skin after application of lidocaine patch is sufficient to produce an analgesic effect , but less than the amount necessary to produce a complete sensory block .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : The amount of lidocaine systemically absorbed from lidocaine patch is directly related to both the duration of application and the surface area over which it is applied .
In a pharmacokinetic study , three lidocaine patches were applied over an area of 420 cm2 of intact skin on the back of normal volunteers for 12 hours .
Blood samples were withdrawn for determination of lidocaine concentration during the application and for 12 hours after removal of patches .
The results are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 Absorption of lidocaine from Lidocaine Patch Normal volunteers ( n = 15 , 12 - hour wearing time ) Lidocaine Patch Application Site Area ( cm2 ) Dose Absorbed ( mg ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) 3 patches ( 2100 mg ) Back 420 64 ± 32 0 . 13 ± 0 . 06 11 hr When lidocaine patch is used according to the recommended dosing instructions , only 3 ± 2 % of the dose applied is expected to be absorbed .
At least 95 % ( 665 mg ) of lidocaine will remain in a used patch .
Mean peak blood concentration of lidocaine is about 0 . 13 mcg / mL ( about 1 / 10 of the therapeutic concentration required to treat cardiac arrhythmias ) .
Repeated application of three patches simultaneously for 12 hours ( recommended maximum daily dose ) , once per day for three days , indicated that the lidocaine concentration does not increase with daily use .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic profile for the 15 healthy volunteers is shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution : When lidocaine is administered intravenously to healthy volunteers , the volume of distribution is 0 . 7 to 2 . 7 L / kg ( mean 1 . 5 ± 0 . 6 SD , n = 15 ) .
At concentrations produced by application of lidocaine patch , lidocaine is approximately 70 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
At much higher plasma concentrations ( 1 to 4 mcg / mL of free base ) , the plasma protein binding of lidocaine is concentration dependent .
Lidocaine crosses the placental and blood brain barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Metabolism : It is not known if lidocaine is metabolized in the skin .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver to a number of metabolites , including monoethylglycinexylidide ( MEGX ) and glycinexylidide ( GX ) , both of which have pharmacologic activity similar to , but less potent than that of lidocaine .
A minor metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has unknown pharmacologic activity but is carcinogenic in rats .
The blood concentration of this metabolite is negligible following application of lidocaine patch 5 % .
Following intravenous administration , MEGX and GX concentrations in serum range from 11 to 36 % and from 5 to 11 % of lidocaine concentrations , respectively .
Excretion : Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
Less than 10 % of lidocaine is excreted unchanged .
The half - life of lidocaine elimination from the plasma following IV administration is 81 to 149 minutes ( mean 107 ± 22 SD , n = 15 ) .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 33 to 0 . 90 L / min ( mean 0 . 64 ± 0 . 18 SD , n = 15 ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Single - dose treatment with lidocaine patch was compared to treatment with vehicle patch ( without lidocaine ) , and to no treatment ( observation only ) in a double - blind , crossover clinical trial with 35 post - herpetic neuralgia patients .
Pain intensity and pain relief scores were evaluated periodically for 12 hours .
Lidocaine patch performed statistically better than vehicle patch in terms of pain intensity from 4 to 12 hours .
Multiple - dose , two - week treatment with lidocaine patch was compared to vehicle patch ( without lidocaine ) in a double - blind , crossover clinical trial of withdrawal - type design conducted in 32 patients , who were considered as responders to the open - label use of lidocaine patch prior to the study .
The constant type of pain was evaluated but not the pain induced by sensory stimuli ( dysesthesia ) .
Statistically significant differences favoring lidocaine patch were observed in terms of time to exit from the trial ( 14 versus 3 . 8 days at p - value < 0 . 001 ) , daily average pain relief , and patient ’ s preference of treatment .
About half of the patients also took oral medication commonly used in the treatment of post - herpetic neuralgia .
The extent of use of concomitant medication was similar in the two treatment groups .
INDICATION AND USAGE Lidocaine patch 5 % is indicated for relief of pain associated with post - herpetic neuralgia .
It should be applied only to intact skin .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine patch 5 % is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to any other component of the product .
WARNINGS Risk of Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
Accidental Exposure in Children Even a used lidocaine patch contains a large amount of lidocaine ( at least 665 mg ) .
The potential exists for a small child or a pet to suffer serious adverse effects from chewing or ingesting a new or used lidocaine patch , although the risk with this formulation has not been evaluated .
It is important for patients to store and dispose of lidocaine patch 5 % out of the reach of children , pets and others .
( See HANDLING AND DISPOSAL ) Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying lidocaine patch 5 % to larger areas or for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations , leading to serious adverse effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Systemic Reactions ) .
Lidocaine toxicity could be expected at lidocaine blood concentrations above 5 mcg / mL .
The blood concentration of lidocaine is determined by the rate of systemic absorption and elimination .
Longer duration of application , application of more than the recommended number of patches , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increasing the blood concentration of lidocaine .
With recommended dosing of lidocaine patch 5 % , the average peak blood concentration is about 0 . 13 mcg / mL , but concentrations higher than 0 . 25 mcg / mL have been observed in some individuals .
PRECAUTIONS General Hepatic Disease : Patients with severe hepatic disease are at greater risk of developing toxic blood concentrations of lidocaine , because of their inability to metabolize lidocaine normally .
Allergic Reactions : Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
However , lidocaine patch 5 % should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities , especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain .
Non - intact Skin : Application to broken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations of lidocaine from increased absorption .
Lidocaine patch 5 % is only recommended for use on intact skin .
External Heat Sources : Placement of external heat sources , such as heating pads or electric blankets , over lidocaine patch 5 % is not recommended as this has not been evaluated and may increase plasma lidocaine levels .
Eye Exposure : The contact of lidocaine patch 5 % with eyes , although not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of severe eye irritation with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and protect the eye until sensation returns .
Information for Patients Methemoglobinemia Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs : Lidocaine patch 5 % should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Local Anesthetics : When lidocaine patch 5 % is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Lidocaine Patch 5 % Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : A minor metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has been found to be carcinogenic in rats .
The blood concentration of this metabolite is negligible following application of lidocaine patch 5 % .
Mutagenesis : Lidocaine HCl is not mutagenic in Salmonella / mammalian microsome test nor clastogenic in chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes and mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility : The effect of lidocaine patch 5 % on fertility has not been studied .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Lidocaine patch 5 % has not been studied in pregnancy .
Reproduction studies with lidocaine have been performed in rats at doses up to 30 mg / kg subcutaneously and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , lidocaine patch 5 % should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Lidocaine patch 5 % has not been studied in labor and delivery .
Lidocaine is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should lidocaine patch 5 % be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine , total doses contributed by all formulations must be considered .
Nursing Mothers Lidocaine patch % has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Lidocaine is excreted in human milk , and the milk : plasma ratio of lidocaine is 0 . 4 .
Caution should be exercised when lidocaine patch 5 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Application Site Reactions During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine patch 5 % , the skin at the site of application may develop blisters , bruising , burning sensation , depigmentation , dermatitis , discoloration , edema , erythema , exfoliation , irritation , papules , petechia , pruritus , vesicles , or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
These reactions are generally mild and transient , resolving spontaneously within a few minutes to hours .
Allergic Reactions Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine , although rare , can occur .
They are characterized by angioedema , bronchospasm , dermatitis , dyspnea , hypersensitivity , laryngospasm , pruritus , shock , and urticaria .
If they occur , they should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
Other Adverse Events Due to the nature and limitation of spontaneous reports in postmarketing surveillance , causality has not been established for additional reported adverse events including : Asthenia , confusion , disorientation , dizziness , headache , hyperesthesia , hypoesthesia , lightheadedness , metallic taste , nausea , nervousness , pain exacerbated , paresthesia , somnolence , taste alteration , vomiting , visual disturbances such as blurred vision , flushing , tinnitus , and tremor .
Systemic ( Dose - Related ) Reactions Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine patch 5 % are unlikely , due to the small dose absorbed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents , including CNS excitation and / or depression ( light - headedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest ) .
Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness .
Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia , hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Actavis at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE Lidocaine overdose from cutaneous absorption is rare , but could occur .
If there is any suspicion of lidocaine overdose ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Systemic Reactions ) , drug blood concentration should be checked .
The management of overdose includes close monitoring , supportive care , and symptomatic treatment .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdose with lidocaine .
In the absence of massive topical overdose or oral ingestion , evaluation of symptoms of toxicity should include consideration of other etiologies for the clinical effects , or overdosage from other sources of lidocaine or other local anesthetics .
The oral LD50 of lidocaine HCl is 459 ( 346 to 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in non - fasted female rats and 214 ( 159 to 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats , which are equivalent to roughly 4000 mg and 2000 mg , respectively , in a 60 to 70 kg man based on the equivalent surface area dosage conversion factors between species .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply lidocaine patch 5 % to intact skin to cover the most painful area .
Apply the prescribed number of patches ( maximum of 3 ) , only once for up to 12 hours within a 24 - hour period .
Patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the release liner .
( See HANDLING AND DISPOSAL ) Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
Smaller areas of treatment are recommended in a debilitated patient , or a patient with impaired elimination .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , remove the patch ( es ) and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When lidocaine patch 5 % is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Lidocaine patch 5 % may not stick if it gets wet .
Avoid contact with water , such as bathing , swimming or showering .
HANDLING AND DISPOSAL Hands should be washed after the handling of lidocaine patch 5 % , and eye contact with lidocaine patch 5 % should be avoided .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Lidocaine patch 5 % should be kept out of the reach of children .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine patch 5 % is available as the following : Carton of 30 patches , packaged into individual child - resistant envelopes .
NDC 0591 - 3525 - 30 Store at 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
For more information , call Actavis at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
Manufactured by : Actavis Laboratories UT , Inc .
Salt Lake City , UT 84108 USA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 4 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 3525 - 30 Lidocaine Patch 5 % Each adhesive patch contains : Lidocaine , 700 mg ( 50 mg per gram adhesive ) in an aqueous base .
Inactive components : non - woven polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) backing , glycerin , D - sorbitol , propylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , urea , sodium polyacrylate , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , gelatin , polyacrylic acid , kaolin , tartaric acid , dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , methylparaben ( preservative ) , propylparaben ( preservative ) , edetate disodium , and a PET release liner .
Usual dosage : For dosage and full prescribing information , read accompanying product information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
WARNING : Keep used and unused patches out of the reach of children , pets and others .
Rx only 30 Patches ( 30 Envelopes Containing 1 Patch Each ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
