Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY DESCRIPTION Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
Hydroquinone occurs as fine , white needles .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6 H6 O2 ; molecular weight is 110 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Blender contains Hydroquinone USP 40 mg / gm in a base of purified water , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , sodium lauryl sulfate , TEA - salicylate , lactic acid , phenyl trimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , sodium metabisulfite , ascorbic acid , methylparaben , saponins , disodium EDTA , BHT , and propylparaben .
Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Clear contains Hydroquinone USP 40 mg / gm in a base of purified water , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , ascorbic acid , sodium metabisulfite , lactic acid , saponins , disodium EDTA , methylparaben , BHT , propylparaben , and butylparaben .
Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader contains Hydroquinone USP 40 mg / gm , Octinoxate USP , 7 . 5 % , and Oxybenzone USP , 5 . 5 % , in a base of purified water , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , ascorbic acid , sodium metabisulfite , disodium EDTA , methylparaben , saponins , propylparaben , BHT , and butylparaben .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunblocking agents or sunscreen agents contained in Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE The gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader is intended for daytime use as it contains sunscreen agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Caution Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check in 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse eyes thoroughly with water and contact physician .
A bitter taste and anesthetic effect may occur if applied to lips .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
Obagi Sunfader is formulated for use as a skin bleaching agent and should not be used for the prevention of sunburn .
Warning Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause serious allergic type reactions ( e . g . , hives , itching , wheezing , anaphylaxis , severe asthma attacks ) in certain susceptible persons .
PRECAUTIONS ( SEE WARNINGS ) General Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
Pediatric usage Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin application should be applied to the affected area twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure should be limited by using a sunscreen agent , a sun blocking agent , or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent repigmentation .
HOW SUPPLIED Obagi Nu - Derm Blender is available as follows : 2 oz .
( 57 gm ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 36 1 oz .
( 28 . 5 gm ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 10 Obagi Nu - Derm Clear is available as follows : 2 oz .
( 57 gm ) bottle NDC 62032 - 101 - 36 1 oz .
( 28 . 5 gm ) bottle NDC 62032 - 101 - 10 Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader is available as : 2 oz .
( 57 gm ) bottle NDC 62032 - 116 - 36 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
OMP , Inc .
Long Beach , CA 90802 USA 1 - 800 - 636 - 7546 Rev . 8 / 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton OBAGI ® SYSTEM NU - DERM ® skin transformation system starter set normal / dry [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
