Active Ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Oxybenzone 4 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 2 . 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused be the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable ; Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged of broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 0 F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply • • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hand then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Sun protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increase the risk of skin cancer and early skin again .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics and surfaces Inactive Ingredients Acrylates Copolymer , Alcohol Denat . , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Bisabolol , Bis - Hydroxyethoxypropyl Dimethicone , Camellia Oleifera ( Japanese Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Fragrance , Phenoxyethanol , Tocopherol Acetate ( Vitamin E ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
