1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OraVerse is indicated for reversal of the soft - tissue anesthesia , i . e . , anesthesia of the lip and tongue , and the associated functional deficits resulting from an intraoral submucosal injection of a local anesthetic containing a vasoconstrictor .
OraVerse is not recommended for use in children less than 6 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) .
OraVerse is indicated for the reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia , i . e . , anesthesia of the lip and tongue , and the associated functional deficits resulting from an intraoral submucosal injection of a local anesthetic containing a vasoconstrictor .
OraVerse is not recommended for use in children less than 6 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amount of Local Anesthetic Administered Dose of OraVerse ½ Cartridge ½ Cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) 1 Cartridge 1 Cartridge ( 0 . 4 mg ) 2 Cartridges 2 Cartridges ( 0 . 8 mg ) OraVerse is administered using the same location ( s ) and same technique ( s ) ( infiltration or block injection ) used for the administration of local anesthetic .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information The recommended dose of OraVerse is based on the number of cartridges of local anesthetic with vasoconstrictor administered : Amount of Local Anesthetic Administered Dose of OraVerse [ mg ] Dose of OraVerse [ Cartridge ] ½ Cartridge 0 . 2 ½ 1 Cartridge 0 . 4 1 2 Cartridges 0 . 8 2 OraVerse should be administered following the dental procedure using the same location ( s ) and technique ( s ) ( infiltration or block injection ) employed for the administration of the local anesthetic .
Note : Do not administer OraVerse if the product is discolored or contains particulate matter .
2 . 2 Dosing in Special Populations In pediatric patients weighing 15 - 30 kg , the maximum dose of OraVerse recommended is 1 / 2 cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) .
( Note : Use in pediatric patients under 6 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) is not recommended .
A dose of more than 1 cartridge [ 0 . 4 mg ] of OraVerse has not been studied in children less than 12 years of age . )
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL solution per cartridge 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL solution per cartridge ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular spasm , and cerebrovascular occlusion have been reported to occur following the intravenous or intramuscular administration of phentolamine , usually in association with marked hypotensive episodes or shock - like states which occasionally follow parenteral administration .
Tachycardia and cardiac arrhythmias may occur with the use of phentolamine or other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Events Myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular spasm , and cerebrovascular occlusion have been reported to occur following the parenteral administration of phentolamine .
These events usually occurred in association with marked hypotensive episodes producing shock - like states .
Tachycardia and cardiac arrhythmias may occur with the use of phentolamine or other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of OraVerse , clinicians should be alert to the signs and symptoms of these events , particularly in patients with a prior history of cardiovascular disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , the most common adverse reaction with OraVerse that was greater than the control group was injection site pain .
The most common adverse reaction with OraVerse ( incidence ≥ 5 % and > control ) is injection - site pain .
( 6 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Dental patients were administered a dose of either 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 or 0 . 8 mg of OraVerse .
The majority of adverse reactions were mild and resolved within 48 hours .
There were no serious adverse reactions and no discontinuations due to adverse reactions .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions where the frequency was greater than or equal to 3 % in any OraVerse dose group and was equal to or exceeded that of the control group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions with Frequency Greater Than or Equal to 3 % and Equal to or Exceeding Control Adverse Event OraVerse Control 0 . 2 mg ( N = 83 ) 0 . 4 mg ( N = 284 ) 0 . 8 mg ( N = 51 ) Total ( N = 418 ) Total ( N = 359 ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Patients with AEs 15 ( 18 ) 82 ( 29 ) 20 ( 39 ) 117 ( 28 ) 96 ( 27 ) Tachycardia 0 ( 0 ) 17 ( 6 ) 2 ( 4 ) 19 ( 5 ) 20 ( 6 ) Bradycardia 0 ( 0 ) 5 ( 2 ) 2 ( 4 ) 7 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 . 3 ) Injection site pain 5 ( 6 ) 15 ( 5 ) 2 ( 4 ) 22 ( 5 ) 14 ( 4 ) Post procedural pain 3 ( 4 ) 17 ( 6 ) 5 ( 10 ) 25 ( 6 ) 23 ( 6 ) Headache 0 ( 0 ) 10 ( 4 ) 3 ( 6 ) 13 ( 3 ) 14 ( 4 ) An examination of population subgroups did not reveal a differential adverse reaction incidence on the basis of age , gender , or race .
Results from the pain assessments in Study 1 and Study 2 , involving mandibular and maxillary procedures , respectively , indicated that the majority of dental patients in both OraVerse and control groups experienced no or mild oral pain , with less than 10 % of patients in each group reporting moderate oral pain with a similar distribution between the OraVerse and control groups .
No patient experienced severe pain in these studies .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Adverse reactions reported by less than 3 % but at least 2 dental patients receiving OraVerse and occurring at a greater incidence than those receiving control , included diarrhea , facial swelling , increased blood pressure / hypertension , injection site reactions , jaw pain , oral pain , paresthesia , pruritus , tenderness , upper abdominal pain and vomiting .
The majority of these adverse reactions were mild and resolved within 48 hours .
The few reports of paresthesia were mild and transient and resolved during the same time period .
6 . 3 Post Marketing Adverse Reaction Reports from Literature and Other Sources The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval parenteral use of phentolamine mesylate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Acute and prolonged hypotensive episodes and cardiac arrhythmias have been reported with the use of phentolamine .
In addition , weakness , dizziness , flushing , orthostatic hypotension , and nasal stuffiness have occurred .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions with OraVerse .
7 . 1 Lidocaine and Epinephrine When OraVerse was administered as an intraoral submucosal injection 30 minutes after injection of a local anesthetic , 2 % lidocaine HCl with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine , the lidocaine concentration increased immediately after OraVerse intraoral injection .
Lidocaine AUC and Cmax values were not affected by administration of OraVerse .
OraVerse administration did not affect the PK of epinephrine .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Use in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or < 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) is not recommended .
( 8 . 4 ) • In pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) , the maximum dose of OraVerse recommended is 1 / 2 cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
OraVerse should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral administration of phentolamine to pregnant rats and mice at doses at least 24 times the recommended dose ( based on a 60 kg human ) resulted in slightly decreased growth and slight skeletal immaturity of the fetuses .
Immaturity was manifested by increased incidence of incomplete or unossified calcaneal and phalangeal nuclei of the hind limb and of incompletely ossified sternebrae .
At oral phentolamine doses at least 60 times the recommended dose ( based on a 60 kg human ) , a slightly lower rate of implantation was found in the rat .
Phentolamine did not affect embryonic or fetal development in the rabbit at oral doses at least 20 times the recommended dose ( based on a 60 kg human ) .
No teratogenic or embryotoxic effects were observed in the rat , mouse , or rabbit studies .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether OraVerse is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when OraVerse is administered to a nursing woman .
The unknown risks of limited infant exposure to phentolamine through breast milk following a single maternal dose should be weighed against the known benefits of breastfeeding .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use In clinical studies , pediatric patients between the ages of 3 and 17 years received OraVerse .
The safety and effectiveness of OraVerse have been established in the age group 6 - 17 years .
Effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years has not been established .
Use of OraVerse in patients between the ages of 6 and 17 years old is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of OraVerse in adults , with additional adequate and well - controlled studies of OraVerse in pediatric patients ages 12 - 17 years old [ Studies 1 ( mandibular procedures ) and 2 ( maxillary procedures ) ] and ages 6 - 11 years old [ Study 3 ( mandibular and maxillary procedures ) ] .
The safety , but not the efficacy , of OraVerse has been evaluated in pediatric patients under the age of 6 years old .
Dosages in pediatric patients may need to be limited based on body weight .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of OraVerse , 55 were 65 and over , while 21 were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE No deaths due to acute poisoning with phentolamine have been reported .
Overdosage with parenterally administered phentolamine is characterized chiefly by cardiovascular disturbances , such as arrhythmias , tachycardia , hypotension , and possibly shock .
In addition , the following might occur : excitation , headache , sweating , pupillary contraction , visual disturbances , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , or hypoglycemia .
There is no specific antidote ; treatment consists of appropriate monitoring and supportive care .
Substantial decreases in blood pressure or other evidence of shock - like conditions should be treated vigorously and promptly .
11 DESCRIPTION Phentolamine mesylate is phenol , 3 - [ [ ( 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 H - imidazol - 2 - yl ) methyl ] ( 4 - methyl - phenyl ) amino ] - , methanesulfonate ( salt ) , a non - specific alpha adrenergic blocker .
Phentolamine mesylate USP is a white to off - white , odorless crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 377 . 46 .
It is sparingly soluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform .
The empirical formulation is C 17H19N3O • CH4O3S , and the chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] OraVerse ( phentolamine mesylate ) Injection is a clear , colorless , sterile , non pyrogenic , isotonic , preservative free solution .
Each 1 . 7 mL cartridge contains 0 . 4 mg phentolamine mesylate , D - mannitol , edetate disodium , and sodium acetate .
Either acetic acid or sodium hydroxide is used as necessary to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which OraVerse accelerates reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia and the associated functional deficits is not fully understood .
Phentolamine mesylate , the active ingredient in OraVerse , produces an alpha - adrenergic block of relatively short duration resulting in vasodilatation when applied to vascular smooth muscle .
In an animal model , OraVerse increased local blood flow in submucosal tissue of the dog when given after an intraoral injection of lidocaine 2 % with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following OraVerse administration , phentolamine is 100 % available from the submucosal injection site and peak concentrations are achieved 10 - 20 minutes after injection .
Phentolamine systemic exposure increased linearly after 0 . 8 mg compared to 0 . 4 mg OraVerse intraoral submucosal injection .
The terminal elimination half - life of phentolamine in the blood was approximately 2 - 3 hours .
Pediatrics Following OraVerse administration , the phentolamine Cmax was higher ( approximately 3 . 5 - fold ) in children who weighed between 15 and 30 kg ( 33 and 66 lbs ) than in children who weighed more than 30 kg .
However , phentolamine AUC was similar between the two groups .
It is recommended that in children weighing 15 - 30 kg , the maximum dose of OraVerse should be limited to ½ cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) ( see Dosage and Administration section ) .
The pharmacokinetics of OraVerse in adults and in children who weighed more than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) are similar after intraoral submucosal injection .
OraVerse has not been studied in children under 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) .
The pharmacokinetics of OraVerse after administration of more than 1 cartridge ( 0 . 4 mg ) has not been studied in children .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with OraVerse have not been conducted .
Phentolamine was not mutagenic in the in - vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay .
In the in - vitro chromosomal aberration study in Chinese hamster ovary cells , numerical aberrations were slightly increased after a 4 - hour exposure to phentolamine without metabolic activation and structural aberrations were slightly increased after a 4 - hour exposure to phentolamine with metabolic activation only at the highest concentrations tested , but neither numerical nor structural aberrations were increased after a 20 - hour exposure without metabolic activation .
Phentolamine was not clastogenic in two in - vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
At doses up to 150 mg / kg ( 143 times human therapeutic exposure levels at the Cmax ) , phentolamine mesylate was shown to have no adverse effects on male fertility in the rat .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of OraVerse when used for reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia ( STA ) , i . e . , anesthesia of the lips and tongue following a dental procedure that required local anesthesia containing a vasoconstrictor , were evaluated in the following clinical studies .
The efficacy of OraVerse on reversal of local anesthesia of the teeth , mandible and maxilla has not been assessed .
Two Phase 3 , double - blinded , randomized , multi - center , controlled studies were conducted in dental patients who had mandibular ( Study 1 ) or maxillary ( Study 2 ) restorative or periodontal maintenance procedures and who had received a local anesthetic that contained a vasoconstrictor .
The primary endpoint was time to normal lip sensation as measured by patient reported responses to lip palpation .
The secondary endpoints included patients ’ perception of altered function , sensation and appearance , and their actual functional deficits in smiling , speaking , drinking and drooling , as assessed by both the patient and an observer blinded to the treatment .
In the mandibular study , the time to recovery of tongue sensation was also a secondary endpoint .
Patients were stratified by type and amount of anesthetic administered .
OraVerse was administered at a cartridge ratio of 1 : 1 to local anesthetic .
The control was a sham injection .
OraVerse reduced the median time to recovery of normal sensation in the lower lip by 85 minutes ( 55 % ) compared to control .
The median time to recovery of normal sensation in the upper lip was reduced by 83 minutes ( 62 % ) .
The differences between these times for both studies are depicted in Kaplan - Meier plots for time to normal lip sensation in Figures 1 and 2 .
Within 1 hour after administration of OraVerse , 41 % of patients reported normal lower lip sensation as compared to 7 % in the control group , and 59 % of patients in the OraVerse group reported normal upper lip sensation as compared to 12 % in the control group .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] In Study 1 ( mandibular ) , OraVerse accelerated : a ) the recovery of the perception of normal appearance and function by 60 minutes ( 40 % ) , b ) the recovery of normal function by 60 ( 50 % ) minutes , and c ) the recovery of normal sensation in the tongue by 65 minutes ( 52 % ) .
In Study 2 ( maxillary ) , the recovery of the perception of normal appearance and function was reduced by 60 minutes ( 50 % ) and the recovery of normal function was reduced by 45 minutes ( 43 % ) .
Study 3 , a pediatric , Phase 2 , double - blinded , randomized , multi - center , controlled study was conducted in dental patients who had received 2 % lidocaine with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine .
Dental patients ( n = 152 , ages 4 - 11 years ) received 1 / 2 cartridge of local anesthetic if they weighed ≥ 15 kg but < 30 kg , and one - half or one full cartridge if they weighed ≥ 30 kg at a cartridge ratio of 1 : 1 to local anesthetic .
The median time to normal lip sensation in patients 6 to 11 years of age who were trainable in the lip - palpation procedures , for mandibular and maxillary procedures combined , was reduced by 75 minutes ( 56 % ) .
Within 1 hour after administration of OraVerse , 44 patients ( 61 % ) reported normal lip sensation , while only 9 patients ( 21 % ) randomized to the control group reported normal lip sensation .
In this study , neither the patients ’ perception of their appearance or ability to function nor their actual ability to function was evaluated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OraVerse ( phentolamine mesylate ) Injection 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL is supplied in a dental cartridge , in cartons of 10 and 50 cartridges .
Each cartridge is individually packaged in a separate compartment of a 10 cartridge blister pack .
NDC 1500 - 0101 - 01 NDC 1500 - 0101 - 02 Store at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) with brief excursions permitted between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from direct heat and light .
Do not permit to freeze .
Manufactured by Novocol Pharmaceutical of Canada , Incorporated Cambridge , Ontario , Canada for Novalar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
San Diego , CA , 92130 US Patent Nos . : 6 , 764 , 678 ; 6 , 872 , 390 ; 7 , 229 , 630 Trademark of Novalar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be instructed not to eat or drink until normal sensation returns .
