DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Povidone - iodine , 7 . 5 % ( 0 . 75 % available iodine ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For preparation of the skin prior to surgery • Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection • For handwashing to reduce bacteria on the skin • Significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care Warnings For external use only Do not use this product in the eyes When using this product • Prolonged exposure to wet solution may cause irritation or , rarely , severe skin reactions • In pre - operative prepping avoid “ pooling ” beneath the patient Stop use and ask a doctor • If irritation and redness develop • In rare instances of local irritation or sensitivity Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions A . Surgical hand scrub : • Wet hands with water • Spread about 5 cc ( 1 teaspoonful ) of Scrub over both hands and forearms • Without adding more water , scrub thoroughly for 2 1 / 2 to 3 minutes • Use a sponge if desired .
Clean thoroughly under fingernails .
• Add a little water and develop copious suds .
Rinse thoroughly under running water .
• Repeat the entire procedure using another 5 cc of Scrub B . Antiseptic hand wash : • Wet hands with water and pour about 5 cc of Scrub on hands • Rub hands vigorously together for at least 15 seconds , covering all surfaces • Rinse and dry with a disposable towel C . Patient pre - operative skin preparation : • Single use only • Wet skin with water • Apply Scrub ( 1 cc is sufficient to cover an area of 20 - 30 square inches ) , develop lather and scrub thoroughly for about 5 minutes • Rinse off using sterile gauze saturated with water • The area may then be painted with BETADINE Solution and allowed to dry Other information • Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • Store in original container Inactive ingredients Ammonium nonoxynol - 4 sulfate , nonoxynol - 9 , purified water , sodium hydroxide Questions ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 572 - 6632 , Weekdays 7 : 00 AM - 5 . 30 PM EST .
√ Antiseptic Non - Sterile Scrub Manufactured by : Global pharma Healthcare Pvt . Ltd . , A - 9 , SIDCO Pharmaceutical Complex , Alathur - 603 110 - INDIA .
www . global - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
