ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 45 g Container Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 101 - 45 ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 45 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 45 g Carton Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 101 - 45 ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 45 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 15 g Container Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 101 - 15 ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 15 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 15 g Carton Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 101 - 15 ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % 15 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Insert ZITHRANOL - RR anthralin microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % Rx only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Zithranol - RR contains 1 . 2 % microcrystalline encapsulated anthralin in a green aqueous cream base containing glyceryl monolaurate , glyceryl monomyristate , citric acid , sodium hydroxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 and purified water .
The anthralin in Zithranol - RR is microencapsulated into a proprietary formulation of surface active crystalline polar lipids to provide for rapid release , as well as to reduce irritation and staining frequently observed with nonencapsulated anthralin preparations .
Since the monoglycerides comprising the microcrystalline matrix have significant antimicrobial properties , Zithranol - RR is resistant to microbial contamination or overgrowth without the need for a preservative agent .
The chemical name of anthralin is 1 , 8 - dihydroxy - 9 - anthrone and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Zithranol - RR contains anthralin , a synthetic compound whose precise mechanism of anti - psoriatic action is not yet fully understood .
However , numerous studies have demonstrated anti - proliferative and anti - inflammatory effects of anthralin on psoriatic and normal skin .
The anti - proliferative effects of anthralin appear to result from both an inhibition of DNA synthesis as well as from its strong reducing properties .
Recently , anthralin ’ s effectiveness as an anti - psoriatic agent has also been in part attributed to its abilities to induce lipid peroxidation and reduce levels of endothelial adhesion molecules which are markedly elevated in psoriatic patients .
Unlike retinoids and PUVA , anthralin does not inhibit liver microsomal enzyme activity ; consequently , the likelihood of adverse drug interactions is greatly reduced when other agents are administered concomitantly with anthralin .
Since Zithranol - RR ’ s proprietary microcrystalline delivery system rapidly releases anthralin into psoriatic plaques on contact with skin , Zithranol - RR is especially useful for short contact ( 5 - 15 minutes ) therapy with anthralin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the topical treatment of patients with stable plaque psoriasis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Zithranol - RR is contraindicated for patients with acute or actively inflamed psoriatic eruptions or a history of hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes .
Exercise care when applying Zithranol - RR cream to the face or intertriginous skin areas .
Discontinue use if a sensitivity reaction occurs or if excessive irritation develops .
PRECAUTIONS General : To prevent the possibility of staining clothing or bed linen , it may be advisable to use protective dressings .
To prevent discoloration of tub / shower , always rinse the tub / shower with lukewarm water immediately after washing / showering and then use a suitable cleanser to remove any deposit on the surface of the tub or shower .
Contact with fabrics , plastics and other materials may cause staining and should be avoided .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
Keep container tightly capped when not in use .
Avoid excessive heat .
For external use only .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the drug .
Although anthralin has been found to have tumor - promoting properties on mouse skin , there have been no reports to suggest carcinogenic effects in humans after many years of clinical use .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Zithranol - RR cream .
It is also not known whether Zithranol - RR cream can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Zithranol - RR cream should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in milk and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for anthralin in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Very few instances of contact allergic reactions to anthralin have been reported .
Transient primary irritation and staining of normal or uninvolved skin surrounding the treated lesions , which is frequently seen with other anthralin preparations is less common with Zithranol - RR due to microcrystalline coating of the anthralin particles .
If the initial treatment produces excessive soreness or if the lesions spread , reduce frequency of application and , in extreme cases , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Some temporary discoloration of hair and fingernails may arise during the period of treatment but should be minimized by careful application .
Staining of fabrics may be permanent , so contact should be avoided .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Generally , it is recommended that Zithranol - RR cream be applied once a day .
Anthralin is known to be a potential skin irritant .
The irritant potential of anthralin is directly related to the strength being used , the time of contact , and each patient ’ s individual tolerance .
Where the response to anthralin treatment has not previously been established , commence treatment using a short contact time ( 5 – 15 min . )
for at least one week .
When a short contact time is used initially , it can be increased stepwise to thirty minutes before removing the cream by washing or showering .
The optimal period of contact will vary according to the patient ’ s response to treatment .
For the skin : Apply sparingly to the psoriatic lesions avoiding normal skin and rub gently and carefully into the skin .
Avoid applying an excessive quantity which may cause unnecessary soiling and staining of the clothing and / or bed linen .
At the end of each period of treatment , rinse the skin thoroughly with cool to lukewarm water before washing with soap .
The margins of the lesions may gradually become stained purple / brown as treatment progresses , but this will disappear after cessation of treatment .
For the scalp : Wash the hair with shampoo , rinse with water and apply Zithranol - RR cream while the hair is still damp .
Rub the cream well into the psoriatic lesions .
Keep Zithranol - RR cream away from the eyes .
Care should be taken to avoid application to uninvolved scalp margins .
Remove any unintended residue which may be deposited behind the ears .
At the end of each period of contact , rinse hair and scalp thoroughly with cool to lukewarm water and then shampoo the hair and scalp to remove any surplus cream .
This treatment may be repeated on alternate days if necessary .
HOW SUPPLIED Zithranol - RR ( anthralin ) microcrystalline encapsulated cream , 1 . 2 % is supplied in tubes .
45 g NDC 42783 - 101 - 45 15 g NDC 42783 - 101 - 15 Store at controlled room temperature 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Manufactured for : Elorac , Inc .
Vernon Hills , IL 60061 U . S . Patent Pending Caution : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
07 / 2008
