5 mg / mL CIV Fliptop Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Diazepam Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for intramuscular or intravenous administration .
Each milliliter ( mL ) contains 5 mg diazepam ; 40 % propylene glycol ; 10 % alcohol ; 5 % sodium benzoate and benzoic acid added as buffers ; and 1 . 5 % benzyl alcohol added as a preservative .
pH 6 . 6 ( 6 . 2 to 6 . 9 ) .
Note : Solution may appear colorless to light yellow .
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative chemically designated as 7 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - methyl - 5 - phenyl - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
It is a colorless crystalline compound , insoluble in water , with the following molecular structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In animals , diazepam appears to act on parts of the limbic system , the thalamus and hypothalamus , and induces calming effects .
Diazepam , unlike chlorpromazine and reserpine , has no demonstrable peripheral autonomic blocking action , nor does it produce extrapyramidal side effects ; however , animals treated with diazepam do have a transient ataxia at higher doses .
Diazepam was found to have transient cardiovascular depressor effects in dogs .
Long - term experiments in rats revealed no disturbances of endocrine function .
Injections into animals have produced localized irritation of tissue surrounding injection sites and some thickening of veins after intravenous use .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
In acute alcohol withdrawal , diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation , tremor , impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis .
As an adjunct prior to endoscopic procedures if apprehension , anxiety or acute stress reactions are present , and to diminish the patient ’ s recall of the procedures .
( See WARNINGS . )
Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology ( such as inflammation of the muscles or joints , or secondary to trauma ) ; spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders ( such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia ) ; athetosis ; stiff - man syndrome ; and tetanus .
Diazepam is a useful adjunct in status epilepticus and severe recurrent convulsive seizures .
Diazepam is a useful premedication ( the I . M . route is preferred ) for relief of anxiety and tension in patients who are to undergo surgical procedures .
Intravenously , prior to cardioversion for the relief of anxiety and tension and to diminish the patient ’ s recall of the procedure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug ; acute narrow angle glaucoma ; and open angle glaucoma unless patients are receiving appropriate therapy .
WARNINGS When used intravenously , the following procedures should be undertaken to reduce the possibility of venous thrombosis , phlebitis , local irritation , swelling , and , rarely , vascular impairment ; the solution should be injected slowly , taking at least one minute for each 5 mg ( 1 mL ) given ; do not use small veins , such as those on the dorsum of the hand or wrist ; extreme care should be taken to avoid intra - arterial administration or extravasation .
Do not mix or dilute diazepam with other solutions or drugs in syringe or infusion container .
If it is not feasible to administer diazepam directly I . V . , it may be injected slowly through the infusion tubing as close as possible to the vein insertion .
Extreme care must be used in administering Diazepam Injection , particularly by the I . V . route , to the elderly , to very ill patients and to those with limited pulmonary reserve because of the possibility that apnea and / or cardiac arrest may occur .
Concomitant use of barbiturates , alcohol or other central nervous system depressants increases depression with increased risk of apnea .
Resuscitative equipment including that necessary to support respiration should be readily available .
When diazepam is used with a narcotic analgesic , the dosage of the narcotic should be reduced by at least one - third and administered in small increments .
In some cases the use of a narcotic may not be necessary .
Diazepam Injection should not be administered to patients in shock , coma , or in acute alcoholic intoxication with depression of vital signs .
As is true of most CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Tonic status epilepticus has been precipitated in patients treated with I . V . diazepam for petit mal status or petit mal variant status .
Usage in Pregnancy : An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( diazepam , meprobamate and chlordiazepoxide ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
In humans , measurable amounts of diazepam were found in maternal and cord blood , indicating placental transfer of the drug .
Until additional information is available , diazepam injection is not recommended for obstetrical use .
Pediatric Use : Efficacy and safety of parenteral diazepam has not been established in the neonate ( 30 days or less of age ) .
Prolonged central nervous system depression has been observed in neonates , apparently due to inability to biotransform diazepam into inactive metabolites .
In pediatric use , in order to obtain maximal clinical effect with the minimum amount of drug and thus to reduce the risk of hazardous side effects , such as apnea or prolonged periods of somnolence , it is recommended that the drug be given slowly over a three - minute period in a dosage not to exceed 0 . 25 mg / kg .
After an interval of 15 to 30 minutes the initial dosage can be safely repeated .
If , however , relief of symptoms is not obtained after a third administration , adjunctive therapy appropriate to the condition being treated is recommended .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section ) .
Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal gasping syndrome in premature infants .
PRECAUTIONS Although seizures may be brought under control promptly , a significant proportion of patients experience a return to seizure activity , presumably due to the short - lived effect of diazepam after I . V . administration .
The physician should be prepared to re - administer the drug .
However , diazepam is not recommended for maintenance , and once seizures are brought under control , consideration should be given to the administration of agents useful in longer term control of seizures .
If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed — particularly with known compounds which may potentiate the action of diazepam , such as phenothiazines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants .
In highly anxious patients with evidence of accompanying depression , particularly those who may have suicidal tendencies , protective measures may be necessary .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired hepatic function should be observed .
Metabolites of diazepam are excreted by the kidney ; to avoid their excess accumulation , caution should be exercised in the administration to patients with compromised kidney function .
Since an increase in cough reflex and laryngospasm may occur with peroral endoscopic procedures , the use of a topical anesthetic agent and the availability of necessary countermeasures are recommended .
Until additional information is available , diazepam injection is not recommended for obstetrical use .
Diazepam injection has produced hypotension or muscular weakness in some patients particularly when used with narcotics , barbiturates or alcohol .
Lower doses ( usually 2 mg to 5 mg ) should be used for elderly and debilitated patients .
The clearance of diazepam and certain other benzodiazepines can be delayed in association with cimetidine administration .
The clinical significance of this is unclear .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects most commonly reported were drowsiness , fatigue and ataxia ; venous thrombosis and phlebitis at the site of injection .
Other adverse reactions less frequently reported include : CNS : confusion , depression , dysarthria , headache , hypoactivity , slurred speech , syncope , tremor , vertigo .
G . I . : constipation , nausea .
G . U . : incontinence , changes in libido , urinary retention .
Cardiovascular : bradycardia , cardiovascular collapse , hypotension .
EENT : blurred vision , diplopia , nystagmus .
Skin : urticaria , skin rash .
Other : hiccups , changes in salivation , neutropenia , jaundice .
Paradoxical reactions such as acute hyperexcited states , anxiety , hallucinations , increased muscle spasticity , insomnia , rage , sleep disturbances and stimulation have been reported ; should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
Minor changes in EEG patterns , usually low - voltage fast activity , have been observed in patients during and after diazepam therapy and are of no known significance .
In peroral endoscopic procedures , coughing , depressed respiration , dyspnea , hyperventilation , laryngospasm and pain in throat or chest have been reported .
Because of isolated reports of neutropenia and jaundice , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable during long - term therapy .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Diazepam Injection is classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a schedule IV controlled substance .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of diazepam .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving diazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect .
The usual recommended dose in older children and adults ranges from 2 mg to 20 mg I . M . or I . V . , depending on the indication and its severity .
In some conditions , e . g . , tetanus , larger doses may be required .
( See dosage for specific indications . )
In acute conditions the injection may be repeated within one hour although an interval of 3 to 4 hours is usually satisfactory .
Lower doses ( usually 2 mg to 5 mg ) and slow increase in dosage should be used for elderly or debilitated patients and when other sedative drugs are administered .
( See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
For dosage in infants above the age of 30 days and children , see the specific indications below .
When intravenous use is indicated , facilities for respiratory assistance should be readily available .
Intramuscular : Diazepam Injection , USP should be injected deeply into the muscle .
Intravenous use : ( See WARNINGS , particularly for use in children . )
The solution should be injected slowly , taking at least one minute for each 5 mg ( 1 mL ) given .
Do not use small veins , such as those on the dorsum of the hand or wrist .
Extreme care should be taken to avoid intra - arterial administration or extravasation .
Do not mix or dilute diazepam with other solutions or drugs in syringe or infusion flask .
If it is not feasible to administer diazepam directly I . V . , it may be injected slowly through the infusion tubing as close as possible to the vein insertion .
Once the acute symptomatology has been properly controlled with diazepam injection , the patient may be placed on oral therapy with diazepam if further treatment is required .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
NOTE : Solution may appear colorless to light yellow .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE DOSAGE RANGE IN CHILDREN ( I . V . administration should be made slowly ) Moderate Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 2 mg to 5 mg , I . M . or I . V . Repeat in 3 to 4 hours , if necessary .
Severe Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 5 mg to 10 mg , I . M . or I . V . Repeat in 3 to 4 hours , if necessary .
Acute Alcohol Withdrawal : As an aid in symptomatic relief of acute agitation , tremor , impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis .
10 mg , I . M . or I . V . initially , then 5 mg to 10 mg in 3 to 4 hours , if necessary .
Endoscopic Procedures : Adjunctively , if apprehension , anxiety or acute stress reactions are present prior to endoscopic procedures .
Dosage of narcotics should be reduced by at least a third and in some cases may be omitted .
See Precautions for peroral procedures .
Titrate I . V . dosage to desired sedative response , such as slurring of speech , with slow administration immediately prior to the procedure .
Generally 10 mg or less is adequate , but up to 20 mg I . V . may be given , particularly when concomitant narcotics are omitted .
If I . V . cannot be used , 5 mg to 10 mg I . M . approximately 30 minutes prior to the procedure .
Muscle Spasm : Associated with local pathology , cerebral palsy , athetosis , stiff - man syndrome or tetanus .
5 mg to 10 mg , I . M . or I . V . initially , then 5 mg to 10 mg in 3 to 4 hours , if necessary .
For tetanus , larger doses may be required .
For tetanus in infants over 30 days of age , 1 mg to 2 mg I . M . or I . V . , slowly , repeated every 3 to 4 hours as necessary .
In children 5 years or older , 5 mg to 10 mg repeated every 3 to 4 hours may be required to control tetanus spasms .
Respiratory assistance should be available .
Status Epilepticus and Severe Recurrent Convulsive Seizures : In the convulsing patient , the I . V . route is by far preferred .
This injection should be administered slowly .
However , if I . V . administration is impossible , the I . M . route may be used .
5 mg to 10 mg initially ( I . V . preferred ) .
This injection may be repeated if necessary at 10 to 15 minute intervals up to a maximum dose of 30 mg .
If necessary , therapy with diazepam may be repeated in 2 to 4 hours ; however , residual active metabolites may persist , and readministration should be made with this consideration .
Extreme caution must be exercised with individuals with chronic lung disease or unstable cardiovascular status .
Infants over 30 days of age and children under 5 years , 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 5 mg slowly every 2 to 5 minutes up to a maximum of 5 mg ( I . V . preferred ) .
Children 5 years or older , 1 mg every 2 to 5 minutes up to a maximum of 10 mg ( slow I . V . administration preferred ) .
Repeat in 2 to 4 hours if necessary .
EEG monitoring of the seizure may be helpful .
Preoperative Medication : To relieve anxiety and tension .
( If atropine , scopolamine or other premedications are desired , they must be administered in separate syringes . )
10 mg , I . M . ( preferred route ) , before surgery .
Cardioversion : To relieve anxiety and tension and to reduce recall of procedure .
5 mg to 15 mg , I . V . , within 5 to 10 minutes prior to the procedure .
MANAGEMENT OF OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of diazepam overdosage include somnolence , confusion , coma , and diminished reflexes .
Respiration , pulse and blood pressure should be monitored , as in all cases of drug overdosage , although , in general , these effects have been minimal .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with intravenous fluids , and an adequate airway maintained .
Hypotension may be combated by the use of norepinephrine or metaraminol .
Dialysis is of limited value .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation , and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for re - sedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
HOW SUPPLIED Diazepam Injection , USP is supplied as follows : 10 mL multiple dose vials containing 50 mg ( 5 mg / mL ) Box of 10 NDC 54868 - 0617 - 2 10 mL multiple dose vials containing 50 mg ( 5 mg / mL ) Carton of 5 NDC 54868 - 0617 - 1 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY Oral LD50 of diazepam is 720 mg / kg in mice and 1240 mg / kg in rats .
Intraperitoneal administration of 400 mg / kg to a monkey resulted in death on the sixth day .
Reproduction Studies : A series of rat reproduction studies was performed with diazepam in oral doses of 1 , 10 , 80 and 100 mg / kg given for periods ranging from 60 − 228 days prior to mating .
At 100 mg / kg there was a decrease in the number of pregnancies and surviving offspring in these rats .
These effects may be attributable to prolonged sedative activity , resulting in lack of interest in mating and lessened maternal nursing and care of the young .
Neonatal survival of rats at doses lower than 100 mg / kg was within normal limits .
Several neonates , both controls and experimentals , in these rat reproduction studies showed skeletal or other defects .
Further studies in rats at doses up to and including 80 mg / kg / day did not reveal significant teratological effects on the offspring .
Rabbits were maintained on doses of 1 , 2 , 5 and 8 mg / kg from day 6 through day 18 of gestation .
No adverse effects on reproduction and no teratological changes were noted .
Revised : July , 2006 © Hospira 2006 EN - 1236 Printed in USA HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
