Drug Facts Active Ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v Purpose Hair Regrowth for men Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Use To regrow hair on the scalp Do not use if • you are a woman • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age • Do not use on babies or children • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water • some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation of redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Apply one mL 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • see enclosed leaflet for complete Directions for Use • using more or more often will not improve result • continued use is necessary , or hair loss will begin again Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions ?
Call Topiderm at 800 - 445 - 2595 or reach us on the internet at topiderm . com Store at Controlled Room Temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Distributed By : Topiderm Inc . , 5200 New Horizions Blvd .
N . Amityville , NY 11701 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Label COMPLIMENTS OF TOPIX PHARMACEUTICALS , INC MEN ' S Minoxidil Hair Regrowth EXTRA STREGNTH 5 % MINOXIDIL TOPICAL SOLUTION , USP HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Reactivates Hair Follicles to Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Topical Solution Unscented For Best Results : Apply Directly to Scalp .
Use Twice Daily One Month Supply 60 mL ( 2 fl oz ) Available Custom Branded 800 . 445 . 2595 c . service @ topixpharm . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
