1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GLIADEL Wafer is indicated for the treatment of patients with : • newly - diagnosed high - grade glioma as an adjunct to surgery and radiation , and • recurrent glioblastoma as an adjunct to surgery .
GLIADEL Wafer is an alkylating drug indicated for the treatment of : • newly - diagnosed high - grade glioma as an adjunct to surgery and radiation ( 1 ) and • recurrent glioblastoma as an adjunct to surgery ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose : Eight 7 . 7 mg wafers ( 61 . 6 mg total dose ) implanted intracranially ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Follow preparation and handling recommendations ( 2 . 3 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose of GLIADEL Wafer is eight 7 . 7 mg wafers for a total of 61 . 6 mg implanted intracranially .
The safety and effectiveness of repeat administration have not been studied .
2 . 2 Insertion Instructions Following maximal tumor resection , confirmation of tumor pathology and establishment of hemostasis , place up to a maximum of eight GLIADEL Wafers to cover as much of the resection cavity as possible .
Should the size and shape of the resected cavity not accommodate eight wafers , place the maximum number of wafers feasible within the cavity .
Slight overlapping of the wafers is acceptable .
Wafers broken in half may be used , but discard wafers broken in more than two pieces .
Oxidized regenerated cellulose ( Surgicel ® ) may be placed over the wafers to secure them against the cavity surface .
After placement of the wafers , irrigate the resection cavity and close the dura in a water - tight fashion .
2 . 3 Preparation and Safe Handling GLIADEL Wafers contain a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 Each wafer is packaged within two nested aluminum foil laminate pouches .
The inner pouch is sterile and is designed to maintain product sterility and protect the product from moisture .
The outside surface of the outer laminated aluminum foil pouch is a peelable overwrap and is not sterile .
Deliver GLIADEL Wafers to the operating room in their outer aluminum foil pouch , unopened .
Do not open the pouch until the wafers are ready to be implanted .
GLIADEL Wafers in unopened outer foil pouches are stable at room temperature for six hours at a time for up to three cycles within a 30 - day period .
Exposure to carmustine can cause severe burning and hyperpigmentation of the skin .
Use double gloves when handling GLIADEL Wafers .
Discard the outer gloves into a biohazard waste container after use .
Use a dedicated surgical instrument for wafer implantation .
If repeat neurosurgical intervention is indicated , handle residual wafers or wafer remnants as potential cytotoxic agents .
Instructions for Opening Pouch Containing GLIADEL Wafer Read all steps of the instructions prior to opening the pouch .
Instructions for opening the pouch containing GLIADEL Wafer can be viewed at the following website : http : / / gliadel . com / hcp / pouch - opening - instructions .
Illustrations are also pictured below .
Figure 1 : To remove the sterile inner pouch from the outer pouch , locate the folded corner and slowly pull in an outward motion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Do NOT pull in a downward motion rolling knuckles over the pouch .
This may exert pressure on the wafer and cause it to break .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : The inner pouch is a multi - layered , silver colored , foil laminate .
Remove the inner pouch by grabbing hold of the crimped edge of the inner pouch using a sterile instrument and pulling upward .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : To open the inner pouch , gently hold the crimped edge and cut in an arc - like fashion around the wafer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : To remove the GLIADEL Wafer , gently grasp the wafer with the aid of forceps and place it onto a designated sterile field .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS GLIADEL Wafer is an off - white to pale yellow round wafer .
Each GLIADEL Wafer contains 7 . 7 mg of carmustine .
• Each GLIADEL Wafer contains 7 . 7 mg of carmustine ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Seizures : Monitor patients for seizures following implantation ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Intracranial hypertension : Monitor patients for signs of increased intracranial pressure ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Impaired neurosurgical wound healing : Monitor patients for complications of craniotomy ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Meningitis : Monitor patients for signs of bacterial or chemical meningitis ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Wafer migration : Monitor patients for signs of obstructive hydrocephalus ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Embryo - fetal toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise males and females of reproductive potential to use an effective method of contraception .
( 5 . 6 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Seizures Seizures occurred in 37 % of patients treated with GLIADEL Wafers for recurrent glioma in Study 2 .
New or worsening ( treatment emergent ) seizures occurred in 20 % of patients ; 54 % of treatment emergent seizures occurred within the first 5 post - operative days [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The median time to onset of the first new or worsened post - operative seizure was four days .
Institute optimal anti - seizure therapy prior to surgery .
Monitor patients for seizures postoperatively .
5 . 2 Intracranial Hypertension Brain edema occurred in 23 % of patients with newly diagnosed glioma treated with GLIADEL Wafers in Study 1 .
Additionally , one GLIADEL - treated patient experienced intracerebral mass effect unresponsive to corticosteroids which led to brain herniation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients closely for intracranial hypertension related to brain edema , inflammation , or necrosis of the brain tissue surrounding the resection .
In refractory cases , consider re - operation and removal of GLIADEL Wafers or Wafer remnants .
5 . 3 Impaired Neurosurgical Wound Healing Impaired neurosurgical wound healing including wound dehiscence , delayed wound healing , and subdural , subgleal , or wound effusions occur with GLIADEL Wafer treatment .
In Study 1 , 16 % of GLIADEL Wafer - treated patients with newly diagnosed glioma experienced impaired intracranial wound healing and 5 % had cerebrospinal fluid leaks .
In Study 2 , 14 % of GLIADEL Wafer - treated patients with recurrent high - grade glioma experienced wound healing abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients post - operatively for impaired neurosurgical wound healing .
5 . 4 Meningitis Meningitis occurred in 4 % of patients with recurrent glioma receiving GLIADEL Wafers in Study 2 .
Two cases of meningitis were bacterial ; one patient required removal of the Wafers four days after implantation ; the other developed meningitis following reoperation for recurrent tumor .
One case was diagnosed as chemical meningitis and resolved following steroid treatment .
In one case the cause was unspecified , but meningitis resolved following antibiotic treatment .
Monitor postoperatively for signs of meningitis and central nervous system infection .
5 . 5 Wafer Migration GLIADEL Wafer migration can occur .
To reduce the risk of obstructive hydrocephalus due to wafer migration into the ventricular system , close any communication larger than the diameter of a Wafer between the surgical resection cavity and the ventricular system prior to Wafer implantation .
Monitor patients for signs of obstructive hydrocephalus .
5 . 6 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity GLIADEL Wafers can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Carmustine , the active component of GLIADEL Wafer , is embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats at exposures less than the exposure at the recommended human dose based on body surface area ( BSA ) and embryotoxic in rabbits at exposures similar to the exposure at the recommended human dose based on BSA .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 6 months after implantation of GLIADEL Wafer .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 3 months following implantation of GLIADEL Wafers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Intracranial Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Impaired Neurosurgical Wound Healing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Meningitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Newly - Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma : Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 10 % and between arm difference ≥ 4 % ) are cerebral edema , asthenia , nausea , vomiting , constipation , wound healing abnormalities and depression ( 6 . 1 ) .
• Recurrent High - Grade Glioma : Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 10 % and between arm difference ≥ 4 % ) are urinary tract infection , wound healing abnormalities and fever ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 866 - 516 - 4950 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Newly - Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma The safety of GLIADEL Wafers was evaluated in a multicenter , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo controlled trial of 240 adult patients with newly - diagnosed high - grade glioma who received up to eight GLIADEL Wafers or matched placebo implanted against the resection surfaces after maximal tumor resection ( Study 1 ) .
The population in Study 1 was 67 % male and 97 % White , and the median age was 53 years ( range : 21 - 72 ) .
Eighty - seven percent had a Karnofsky performance status ≥ 70 and 71 % had a Karnofsky performance status of ≥ 80 % .
Seventy - eight percent had a histologic subtype of glioblastoma as determined by central pathology review .
Thirty - eight percent of patients received 8 wafers and 78 % received ≥ 6 wafers .
Starting three weeks after surgery , 80 % of patients received standard limited field radiation therapy ( RT ) described as 55 - 60 Gy delivered in 28 to 30 fractions over six weeks ; an additional 11 % received no radiotherapy and the remainder received non - standard radiotherapy or a combination of standard and non - standard radiotherapy .
At the time of progression , 12 % received systemic chemotherapy .
Deaths occurred within 30 days of wafer implantation in 5 ( 4 % ) of patients receiving GLIADEL Wafers compared to 2 ( 2 % ) of patients receiving placebo .
Deaths on the GLIADEL arm resulted from cerebral hematoma / edema ( n = 3 ) , pulmonary embolism ( n = 1 ) and acute coronary event ( n = 1 ) .
Deaths on the placebo arm resulted from sepsis ( n = 1 ) and malignant disease ( n = 1 ) .
The incidence of common adverse reactions in GLIADEL Wafer - treated patients is listed in Table 1 .
The incidence of local adverse reactions is shown in Table 2 .
Table 1 .
Per - Patient Incidence of Adverse Reactions Occurring in Gliadel Wafer - Treated Patients with Newly - Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma ( Study 1 ) ( Between Arm Difference of ≥ 4 % ) Adverse Reaction GLIADEL Wafer N = 120 Placebo N = 120 % % GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea 22 17 Vomiting 21 16 Constipation 19 12 Abdominal pain 8 2 GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITION Asthenia 22 15 Chest pain 5 0 INJURY , POISONING AND PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS Wound healing abnormalities [ 1 ] 16 12 MUSCULOSKELETAL AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE Back pain 7 3 PSYCHIATRIC Depression 16 10 [ 1 ] Included ( 1 ) fluid , CDS , or subdural fluid collection ; ( 2 ) CSF leak ; ( 3 ) wound dehiscence , breakdown , or poor healing ; and ( 4 ) subgaleal or wound effusions ( including yellow discharge at the incision ) Table 2 .
Incidence of Local Adverse Reactions , Study 1 [ 1 ] Local Adverse Reactions GLIADEL Wafer N = 120 Placebo N = 120 % % Cerebral edema 23 19 Intracranial hypertension 9 2 Cerebral hemorrhage 6 4 Brain abscess 6 4 Brain cyst 2 3 [ 1 ] Not seen at baseline or worsened if present at baseline .
Recurrent High - Grade Glioma The safety of GLIADEL Wafers was evaluated in a multicenter , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo controlled trial of 222 patients with recurrent high - grade glioma who received up to eight GLIADEL Wafers or matched placebo implanted against the resection surfaces after maximal tumor resection ( Study 2 ) .
Patients were required to have had prior definitive external beam radiation therapy sufficient to disqualify them from additional radiation therapy .
All patients were eligible to receive chemotherapy which was withheld at least four weeks ( six weeks for nitrosoureas ) prior to and two weeks after surgery .
The population in Study 2 was 64 % male , 92 % White , and the median age was 49 years ( range : 19 - 80 ) .
Sixty - five percent had a histologic subtype of glioblastoma , 26 % had anaplastic astrocytoma or another anaplastic variant , 73 % had a Karnofsky performance status ≥ 70 , 53 % had a Karnofsky performance status of ≥ 80 % , 73 % had only one prior surgery , and 46 % had prior treatment with nitrosourea .
Eighty - one percent of patients received 8 wafers and 96 % received ≥ 6 wafers .
Sixty - four severe adverse reactions were reported in 43 ( 39 % ) patients receiving GLIADEL Wafers .
Adverse reactions in GLIADEL Wafer - treated patients are shown in Table 3 .
Meningitis occurred in four patients receiving GLIADEL Wafers and in no patients receiving placebo .
Bacterial meningitis was confirmed in two patients : the first with onset four days following GLIADEL Wafer implantation ; the second following resection for tumor recurrence 155 days following GLIADEL Wafer implantation .
One case , attributed to chemical meningitis resolved following steroid treatment .
The cause of the fourth case was undetermined but resolved following antibiotic treatment .
Table 3 .
Per - Patient Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Gliadel Wafer - Treated Patients with Recurrent High - Grade Glioma ( Study 2 ) ( Between Arm Difference of ≥ 4 % ) Adverse Reaction GLIADEL Wafer N = 110 Placebo N = 112 % % GENERAL Fever 12 8 INFECTIOUS Urinary tract infections 21 17 INJURY , POISONING AND PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS Wound healing abnormalities [ 1 ] 14 5 [ 1 ] Included ( 1 ) fluid , CDS , or subdural fluid collection ; ( 2 ) CSF leak ; ( 3 ) wound dehiscence , breakdown , or poor healing ; and ( 4 ) subgaleal or wound effusions ( including yellow discharge at the incision ) The incidence of seizures is shown in Table 4 .
The incidence of hydrocephalus , cerebral edema and intracranial hypertension is shown in Table 5 .
Table 4 .
Incidence of Seizures , Study 2 Adverse Reaction GLIADEL Wafer N = 110 Placebo N = 112 Patients with seizures ( % ) Any seizures after wafer implantation 37 29 New or worsening seizures 20 20 Time to new or worsening seizures ( days ) [ 1 ] Mean ( SD ) 26 . 09 ( 0 . 75 ) 62 . 36 ( 48 . 66 ) Median 3 . 5 61 . 0 [ 1 ] Days from implantation to onset of first new or worsening seizure .
Table 5 .
Hydrocephalus and Cerebral Edema , Study 2 [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction GLIADEL Wafer N = 110 Placebo N = 112 % % Hydrocephalus 5 2 Cerebral edema 4 1 [ 1 ] Not seen at baseline or worsened if present at baseline .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary GLIADEL Wafer can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on GLIADEL use in pregnant women .
There have been no animal reproductive studies with GLIADEL Wafer ; however , carmustine , the active component of GLIADEL Wafer , is embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats at exposures less than the exposure at the recommended human dose based on body surface area ( BSA ) and embryotoxic in rabbits at exposures similar to exposures at the recommended human dose based on BSA ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data There are no studies assessing the reproductive toxicity of GLIADEL Wafer ; however , carmustine , the active component of GLIADEL Wafer , is embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats at intraperitoneal doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day or greater when given on gestation days 6 through 15 .
Carmustine caused fetal malformations ( anophthalmia , micrognathia , omphalocele ) at 1 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 12 times the recommended human dose , eight wafers of 7 . 7 mg carmustine / wafer , based on BSA ) .
Carmustine was embryotoxic in rabbits at intravenous doses of 4 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 2 times the recommended human dose based on BSA ) .
Embryotoxicity was characterized by increased embryo - fetal deaths , reduced numbers of litters , and reduced litter sizes .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary No data are available regarding the presence of carmustine , the active component of GLIADEL Wafer , or its metabolites in human milk or its effects on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed children from GLIADEL Wafers , advise women not to breastfeed following implantation with GLIADEL Wafers and for at least 7 days after implantation .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to implantation with GLIADEL Wafer [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception GLIADEL Wafer can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 6 months after implantation of GLIADEL Wafer .
Males Based on its mechanism of action , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 3 months following implantation of GLIADEL Wafer [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] Infertility Males Carmustine caused testicular degeneration in animals .
Advise male patients of the potential risk of infertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of GLIADEL Wafer in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of GLIADEL Wafer did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION GLIADEL Wafer is an implant for intracranial use , containing carmustine , a nitrosourea alkylating agent , and polifeprosan , a biodegradable copolymer used to control the release of carmustine .
It is a sterile , off - white to pale yellow wafer approximately 1 . 45 cm in diameter and 1 mm thick .
Each wafer contains 7 . 7 mg of carmustine [ 1 , 3 - bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) - 1 - nitrosourea , or BCNU ] and 192 . 3 mg of a biodegradable polyanhydride copolymer .
The copolymer , polifeprosan 20 , consists of poly [ bis ( p - carboxyphenoxy ) ] propane and sebacic acid in a 20 : 80 molar ratio .
Carmustine is homogeneously distributed in the copolymer matrix .
The structural formula for polifeprosan 20 is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The structural formula for carmustine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The activity of GLIADEL Wafer is due to release of cytotoxic concentrations of carmustine , a DNA and RNA alkylating agent , into the tumor resection cavity .
On exposure to the aqueous environment of the resection cavity , the anhydride bonds in the copolymer are hydrolyzed , releasing carmustine , carboxyphenoxypropane , and sebacic acid into the surrounding brain tissue .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Carmustine concentrations delivered by GLIADEL Wafer in human brain tissue have not been determined .
Following wafer insertion , the mean whole blood Cmax ( ± SD ) is 10 . 2 ng / mL ± 4 . 8 ng / mL .
Absorption Systemic absorption of carmustine is measurable for approximately 24 hours after wafer insertion .
Carmustine Cmax was reached approximately 3 hours after wafer insertion .
Elimination Metabolism Carmustine degrades both spontaneously and metabolically .
12 . 6 Wafer Biodegradation GLIADEL Wafers are biodegradable when implanted into the human brain .
Wafer remnants were visible on CT scans obtained 49 days after implantation of GLIADEL Wafer .
More than 70 % of the copolymer degrades within three weeks .
Wafer remnants have been present at re - operation and autopsy up to 7 . 8 months after GLIADEL Wafer implantation and consisted mostly of water and monomeric components with minimal detectable carmustine present .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility studies have been conducted with GLIADEL Wafer .
Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and impairment of fertility studies have been conducted with carmustine , the active component of GLIADEL Wafer .
Carmustine was carcinogenic in rats and mice when delivered by intraperitoneal injection at doses lower than those delivered by GLIADEL Wafer at the recommended dose .
There were increases in tumor incidence in all treated animals .
Carmustine was mutagenic in vitro ( Ames assay , human lymphoblast HGPRT assay ) and clastogenic both in vitro ( V79 hamster cell micronucleus assay ) and in vivo ( SCE assay in rodent brain tumors , mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
In male rats carmustine caused testicular degeneration at intraperitoneal doses of 8 mg / kg / week for eight weeks ( about 1 . 3 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Newly - Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma Study 1 was a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled , clinical trial in adult patients with newly - diagnosed high - grade glioma .
A total of 240 patients were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive up to eight GLIADEL Wafers or matched placebo wafers following maximal tumor resection .
Patients received post - operative radiation therapy ( 55 - 60 Gy delivered in 28 to 30 fractions over six weeks ) starting three weeks after surgery .
Patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma also received systemic chemotherapy ( 6 cycles of PCV - lomustine 110 mg / m2 day 1 , procarbazine 60 mg / m2 days 8 - 21 , vincristine 1 . 4 mg / m2 days 8 and 29 ) .
The population in Study 1 was 67 % male and 97 % White , and the median age was 53 years ( range : 21 - 72 ) .
Eighty - seven percent had a Karnofsky performance status ≥ 70 % and 71 % had a Karnofsky performance status of ≥ 80 % .
Seventy - eight percent had a histologic subtype of glioblastoma as determined by central pathology review .
Thirty - eight percent of patients received 8 wafers and 78 % received ≥ 6 wafers .
Starting three weeks after surgery , 80 % of patients received standard limited field radiation therapy ( RT ) described as 55 - 60 Gy delivered in 28 to 30 fractions over six weeks ; 11 % received no radiotherapy and the remainder received non - standard radiotherapy or a combination of standard and non - standard radiotherapy .
At the time of progression , 12 % received systemic chemotherapy .
Patients were followed for at least three years or until death .
Efficacy results for patients randomized in Study 1 are summarized in Table 6 and Figure 6 .
Overall survival among all patients with newly diagnosed high - grade glioma , the primary outcome measure , was prolonged in the GLIADEL arm .
Overall survival in the subset of patients with glioblastoma , a secondary outcome measure , was not significantly prolonged .
Table 6 .
Overall Survival in Patients with Newly - Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma , Study 1 .
Overall Survival – ITT [ 1 ] Gliadel Wafer ( n = 120 ) Placebo Wafer ( n = 120 ) Number of deaths , n ( % ) 111 ( 93 % ) 117 ( 98 % ) Median overall survival , months ( 95 % CI ) 13 . 9 ( 12 . 1 , 15 . 1 ) 11 . 6 ( 10 . 2 , 12 . 7 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 73 ( 0 . 56 , 0 . 95 ) Log - Rank test p - value < 0 . 02 [ 2 ] [ 1 ] Based on a post - final analysis , protocol specified non - stratified log - rank test .
[ 2 ] p - value not adjusted for multiple comparisons Figure 6 : Kaplan - Meier Curves of Overall Survival in Patients with Newly Diagnosed High - Grade Glioma , Study 1 .
[ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Based on a post - final analysis , protocol specified non - stratified log - rank test ; p - value not adjusted for multiple comparisons 14 . 2 Recurrent Glioblastoma Study 2 was a multicenter , double - blind , placebo controlled , clinical trial in adult patients with recurrent high - grade glioma .
Patients were required to have had prior definitive external beam radiation therapy sufficient to disqualify them from additional radiation therapy .
Following maximal tumor resection and confirmation of high - grade glioma , a total of 222 patients were randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive a maximum of eight GLIADEL Wafers ( n = 110 ) or matched placebo wafers ( n = 112 ) positioned to cover the entire resection surface .
All patients were eligible to receive chemotherapy which was withheld at least four weeks ( six weeks for nitrosoureas ) prior to and two weeks after surgery .
Patients were followed for up to 71 months .
The population in Study 2 was 64 % male and 92 % White , and the median age was 49 years ( range : 19 - 80 ) .
Sixty - five percent had a histologic subtype of glioblastoma , 26 % had anaplastic astrocytoma or another anaplastic variant , 73 % had a Karnofsky performance status ≥ 70 , 53 % had a Karnofsky performance status of ≥ 80 % , 73 % had only one prior surgery , and 46 % had prior treatment with nitrosourea .
Eighty - one percent of patients received 8 wafers and 96 % received ≥ 6 wafers .
Survival and 6 - month mortality rate in the subgroup of patients with recurrent glioblastoma , were exploratory outcome measures and are summarized in Table 7 and Figures 7 and 8 .
No survival prolongation was observed in patients with pathologic diagnoses other than glioblastoma .
Table 7 .
Main Efficacy Outcome Measures in Patients with Recurrent Glioblastoma , Study 2 .
GLIADEL Wafer Placebo Wafer GLIOBLASTOMA n = 72 n = 73 6 - Month Survival Number of deaths , n ( % ) 32 47 6 - month survival rate ( % ) 56 % 36 % Log - Rank test p - value Gehan ' s generalized Wilcoxon Test p - value 0 . 013 [ 1 ] 0 . 015 null Overall Survival Number of deaths , n ( % ) 71 ( 99 % ) 72 ( 99 % ) Median overall survival ( 95 % CI ( months ) 6 . 51 ( 5 . 32 , 7 . 49 ) 4 . 63 ( 3 . 78 , 5 . 52 ) Log - Rank test p - value Gehan ' s generalized Wilcoxon Test p - value 0 . 181 null 0 . 021 null [ 1 ] p - value not adjusted for multiple comparisons Figure 7 : Kaplan - Meier Curves of 6 - Month Survival for Patients with Recurrent Glioblastoma , Study 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 : Kaplan - Meier Curves of Overall Survival for Patients with Recurrent Glioblastoma , Study 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • " OSHA Hazardous Drugs " .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING GLIADEL Wafer is supplied in a single dose treatment box containing eight individually pouched wafers .
Each wafer contains 7 . 7 mg of carmustine and is packaged in two aluminum foil laminate pouches .
The inner pouch is sterile and is designed to maintain product sterility and protect the product from moisture .
The outer pouch is a peelable overwrap .
The outside surface of the outer pouch is not sterile .
NDC for single dose treatment box : 24338 - 050 - 08 Store GLIADEL Wafer at or below - 20ºC ( - 4ºF ) .
Do not keep unopened foil pouches at ambient room temperature for more than six hours at a time for up to three cycles within a 30 - day period .
GLIADEL Wafer is a cytotoxic drug and special handling and disposal procedures should be considered . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Seizures Advise patients to report any new or change in their seizure activity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Intracranial Hypertension Advise patients to report severe headaches , nausea , vomiting or new onset visual disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Impaired Neurosurgical Wound Healing Advise patients to report any evidence of wound dehiscence , fever or cerebrospinal fluid leak [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Meningitis Advise patients to report symptoms of meningitis such as fever or stiff neck [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise women to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for at least 6 months after implantation of GLIADEL Wafer [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 3 months following implantation of GLIADEL Wafer [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed following implantation with GLIADEL Wafers and for at least 7 days after implantation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males of reproductive potential that GLIADEL Wafer may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by Eisai Inc .
Woodcliff Lake , NJ 07677 Distributed by Arbor Pharmaceuticals , LLC Atlanta , GA 30328 GLIADEL ® is a registered trademark of Eisai Inc .
GL - PI - 04 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 Wafer Box NDC 24338 - 050 - 08 GLIADEL ® WAFER ( carmustine implant ) 7 . 7 mg carmustine / wafer For intracranial use .
Each sterile wafer contains 192 . 3 mg polifeprosan 20 and 7 . 7 mg carmustine .
Contents : 8 wafers , individually packaged Store at or below - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Rx only Warning : Cytotoxic agent See package insert for full prescribing information .
Keep out of the reach of children .
arbor PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
