DESCRIPTION Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets 50 mg contain the anorectic agent benzphetamine hydrochloride .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder readily soluble in water and 95 % ethanol .
The chemical name for benzphetamine hydrochloride is d - N , α - Dimethyl - N - ( phenylmethyl ) - benzeneethanamine hydrochloride and its molecular weight is 275 . 82 .
The structural formula ( dextro form ) is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablet for oral administration , contains 50 mg of benzphetamine hydrochloride .
Inactive Ingredients : Calcium Stearate , Polyethylene Glycol , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Lactose Anhydrous , Sorbitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzphetamine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , the amphetamines .
Actions include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as “ anorectics ” or “ anorexigenics ” .
It has not been established however , that the action of such drugs in treating obesity is primarily one of appetite suppression .
Other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may be involved .
Adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with “ anorectic ” drugs , lose more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet , as determined in relatively short - term clinical trials .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is the greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “ anorectic ” drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drug prescribed , such as the physician - investigator , the population treated , and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured in years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks duration ; thus , the total impact of drug - induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered to be clinically limited .
Pharmacokinetic data in humans are not available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of exogenous obesity as a short term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on caloric restriction in patients with an initial body mass index ( BMI ) of 30 kg / m2 or higher who have not responded to appropriate weight reducing regimen ( diet and / or exercise ) alone .
Below is a chart of Body Mass Index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ’ s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ’ s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches × 0 . 0254 = meters .
The limited usefulness of agents of this class ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) should be weighed against possible risks inherent in their use such as those described below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for use as monotherapy only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with advanced arteriosclerosis , symptomatic cardiovascular disease , moderate to severe hypertension , hyperthyroidism , known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to sympathomimetic amines , and glaucoma .
Benzphetamine should not be given to patients who are in an agitated state or who have a history of drug abuse .
Hypertensive crises have resulted when sympathomimetic amines have been used concomitantly or within 14 days following use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with other CNS stimulants .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Amphetamines have been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mammals at high multiples of the human dose .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in combination with other anorectic agents , including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations and herbal products .
In a case - control epidemiological study , the use of anorectic agents was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension , a rare , but often fatal disorder .
The use of anorectic agents for longer than three months was associated with a 23 - fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension .
Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded .
It should be noted that benzphetamine was not specifically studied in this case - control study .
The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea , or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris , syncope , or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension .
Under these circumstances , Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should be immediately discontinued , and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine has been reported .
Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time , higher than recommended dose , and / or use in combination with other anorectic drugs .
However , no cases of this valvulopathy have been reported when benzphetamine has been used alone .
The potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as valvular heart disease and pulmonary hypertension should be assessed carefully against the potential benefit of weight loss .
Baseline cardiac evaluation should be considered to detect pre - existing valvular heart diseases or pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of benzphetamine treatment .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in patients with known heart murmur or valvular heart disease .
Echocardiogram during and after treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur .
To limit unwarranted exposure and risks , treatment with Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment ( i . e . , weight loss of at least 4 pounds , or as determined by the physician and patient ) .
When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for severely hypertensive patients or for patients with symptomatic cardiovascular disease including arrhythmias .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients who used any anorectic agents within the prior year .
PRECAUTIONS General Insulin requirements in diabetes mellitus may be altered in association with use of anorexigenic drugs and the concomitant dietary restrictions .
Psychological disturbances have been reported in patients who receive an anorectic agent together with a restrictive dietary regime .
Caution is to be exercised in prescribing amphetamines for patients with even mild hypertension .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Information for Patients Amphetamines may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Drug Interactions Efficacy of Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets in combination with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems .
Hypertensive crises have resulted when sympathomimetic amines have been used concomitantly or within 14 days following use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with other CNS stimulants .
Amphetamines may decrease the hypotensive effects of antihypertensives .
Amphetamines may enhance the effects of tricyclic antidepressants .
Urinary alkalinizing agents increase blood levels and decrease excretion of amphetamines .
Urinary acidifying agents decrease blood levels and increase excretion of amphetamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies to evaluate the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility have not been performed .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
Nursing Mothers Amphetamines are excreted in human milk .
Mothers taking amphetamines should be advised to refrain from nursing .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Use of benzphetamine hydrochloride is not recommended in individuals under 12 years of age .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to establish safety and efficacy in this population .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following have been associated with the use of benzphetamine hydrochloride : Cardiovascular Palpitation , tachycardia , elevation of blood pressure .
There have been isolated reports of cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiac events associated with chronic amphetamine use .
Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine , both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs , have been reported .
However , no cases of this valvulopathy have been reported when Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets have been used alone .
CNS Overstimulation , restlessness , dizziness , insomnia , tremor , sweating , headache ; rarely , psychotic episodes at recommended doses ; depression following withdrawal of the drug .
Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth , unpleasant taste , nausea , diarrhea , other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Allergic Urticaria and other allergic reactions involving the skin .
Endocrine Changes in libido .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Benzphetamine is a controlled substance under the Controlled Substance Act by the Drug Enforcement Administration and has been assigned to Schedule III .
Benzphetamine hydrochloride is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused , and the possibility of abuse of Benzphetamine Hydrochloride Tablets should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage to many times that recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity , and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of Overdosage : Acute overdosage with amphetamines may result in restlessness , tremor , tachypnea , confusion , assaultiveness and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmias , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and abdominal cramps .
Hyperpyrexia and rhabdomyolysis have been reported and can lead to a number of associated complications .
Fatal poisoning is usually preceded by convulsions and coma .
Treatment of Overdosage : ( See WARNINGS ) - information concerning the effects of overdosage with Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets is extremely limited .
The following is based on experience with other anorexiants .
Management of acute amphetamine intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes sedation with a barbiturate .
If hypertension is marked , the use of a nitrite or rapidly acting alpha receptor blocking agent should be considered .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases amphetamine excretion .
The oral LD50 is 174 mg / kg in mice and 104 mg / kg in rats .
The intraperitoneal LD50 in mice is 153 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized according to the response of the patient .
The suggested dosage ranges from 25 to 50 mg one to three times daily .
Treatment should begin with 25 to 50 mg once daily with subsequent increase in individual dose or frequency according to response .
A single daily dose is preferably given in mid - morning or mid - afternoon , according to the patient ’ s eating habits .
In an occasional patient it may be desirable to avoid late afternoon administration .
Use of benzphetamine hydrochloride is not recommended in individuals under 12 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are supplied as follows : 50 mg ( peach , round , imprinted with BP 650 , scored ) .
7 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 07 ) 14 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 14 ) 21 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 21 ) 42 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 42 ) 84 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 84 ) 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE ( 53217 - 175 - 90 ) KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Repackaged by Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92880 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Rx only Manufactured for : Boca Pharmacal , LLC Coral Springs , FL 33065 1 - 800 - 354 - 8460 www . bocapharmacal . com Rev . 08 / 13 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
