[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient Chloroxylenol 4 . 8 % Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns , consult a doctor .
First Aid to help prevent infection of minocutsscrapesburns Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse .
Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area • Do not use undiluted • Apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily • For antiseptic treatment of minor cuts , burns and scrapes : dilute 1 : 20 in water • If bandaged , let dry first Other information • Store below 86 ° F Inactive Ingredients Caramel , castor oil , caustic soda , isopropyl alcohol , pine oil , water .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 228 - 4722 Do not use this product • if you are allergic to chloroxylenol or any of the ingredients • on children below 1 years of age • around cats or cavies • undiluted on human or pet skin as severe irritation may occur • after the expiry date printed on the bottle Ask a doctor before use if you have eczema or a similar skin condition .
When using this product if contact is made with eyes , wash thoroughly with cold water and consult your doctor .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel Dettol LIQUID CHLOROXYLENOL 4 . 8 % FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC NET WT . : 16 . 9 FL .
OZ .
( 500 mL ) 3224889 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dettol Liquid Chloroxylenol 4 . 8 % First Aid Antiseptic Net wt . 16 . 9 FL .
OZ ( 500 ml ) www . rbnainfo . com DETTOL ® and the Sword device are registered trademarks .
reckitt Manufacturer Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare ( UK ) Limited Hull HU8 7 DS + 44 1482 326151 Made in England 3224888 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
