Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone Acetate 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( Anti - itch ) Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis and for external genital , feminine , and anal itching Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Do not use • in the eyes • for diaper rash • for external genital or feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge • more than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • this product in the rectum by using finger or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or if symptoms persist more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not continue to use this or any other hydrocortisone product for longer than 7 days , or if bleeding occurs near anus when used for anal itching Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
• When used for anal itching , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry , patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying .
Children under 12 : consult a doctor before using for anal itching .
Other information • Do not use if seal on the tube is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • Store at room temperature • Avoid excessive heat • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiry Date Inactive ingredients Mineral Oil , Sorbitan Sesquioleate , White Petrolatum Questions or comments ?
718 - 502 - 6610 between 9 am to 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Maximum Strength Anti - itch Ointment Compared to the active ingredient in Cortizone • 10 ® * Temporary Relief the Discomfort of Itching , Rashes and Irritation on Skin Due to Eczema , Psoriasis and Insect bites * This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Cortizone • 10 ® Distributed by : EzriCare , LLC Lakewood , NJ www . EzriCare . com Made in India Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
