Allegra Hives24HR tablet 180 mg Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Fexofenadine HCl 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring .
Warnings Severe Allergy Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : ■ trouble swallowing ■ dizziness or loss of consciousness ■ swelling of tongue ■ swelling in or around mouth ■ trouble speaking ■ wheezing or problems breathing ■ drooling These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for “ anaphylaxis ” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use ■ to prevent hives from any known cause such as : ■ foods ■ insect stings ■ medicines ■ latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have ■ kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
■ hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered ■ hives that do not itch When using this product ■ do not take more than directed ■ do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids ■ do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
■ symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment ■ the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information ■ ( if blister ) safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if individual blister units are torn or opened ■ ( on the carton if bottle ) safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if printed foil inner seal on bottle is torn or missing ■ ( if bottle ) safety sealed : do not use if carton was opened or if printed foil inner seal on bottle is torn or missing ■ store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) ■ protect from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , iron oxide blends , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Allegra Hives fexofenadine HCI tablet 180 mg / antihistamine 24 HR 5 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Allegra Hives fexofenadine HCI tablet 180 mg / antihistamine 24 HR 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
