Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) 04 / 2022 Extravasation Resulting in Tissue Necrosis ( 5 . 3 ) 04 / 2022 Rhabdomyolysis ( 5 . 4 ) 04 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZEPZELCA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) with disease progression on or after platinum - based chemotherapy .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
ZEPZELCA is an alkylating drug indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) with disease progression on or after platinum - based chemotherapy .
( 1 ) This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended dosage : 3 . 2 mg / m2 every 21 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Administer ZEPZELCA as an intravenous infusion over 60 minutes .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Consider premedication with corticosteroids and serotonin antagonists .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ZEPZELCA is 3 . 2 mg / m2 by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Initiate treatment with ZEPZELCA only if absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) is at least 1 , 500 cells / mm3 and platelet count is at least 100 , 000 / mm3 .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dose reductions for adverse reactions are listed in Table 1 .
Permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA in patients who are unable to tolerate 2 mg / m2 or require a dose delay greater than two weeks .
Table 1 : Dose Reduction for ZEPZELCA for Adverse ReactionsDose Reduction Total Dose First Second 2 . 6 mg / m2 every 21 days 2 mg / m2 every 21 days Discontinue ZEPZELCA if patients are unable to tolerate 2 mg / m2 every 21 days .
Dosage modifications for ZEPZELCA for adverse reactions are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Dosage Modifications for ZEPZELCA for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severitya Dosage Modification Neutropeniab [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 4 or Any grade febrile neutropenia • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at a reduced dose Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 with bleeding or Grade 4 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until platelet ≥ 100 , 000 / mm3 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at reduced dose Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at same dose Grade ≥ 3 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at reduced dose or permanently discontinue Rhabdomyolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 2 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at same dose Grade ≥ 3 • • Permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA Other Adverse Reactions [ see Postmarketing ( 6 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at same dose Grade ≥ 3 • • Withhold ZEPZELCA until Grade ≤ 1 • • Resume ZEPZELCA at reduced dose or permanently discontinue • aNational Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI CTCAE ) version 4 . 0 • bPatients with isolated Grade 4 neutropenia ( neutrophil count less than 500 cells / mm3 ) may receive G - CSF prophylaxis rather than undergo lurbinectedin dose reduction .
2 . 3 Premedication Consider administering the following pre - infusion medications for antiemetic prophylaxis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] : • • Corticosteroids ( dexamethasone 8 mg intravenously or equivalent ) • • Serotonin antagonists ( ondansetron 8 mg intravenously or equivalent ) 2 . 4 Preparation , Administration and Storage ZEPZELCA is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
Preparation • • Inject 8 mL of Sterile Water for Injection USP into the vial , yielding a solution containing 0 . 5 mg / mL lurbinectedin .
Shake the vial until complete dissolution .
• • Visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The reconstituted solution is a clear , colorless or slightly yellowish solution , essentially free of visible particles .
• • Calculate the required volume of reconstituted solution as follows : • [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • For administration through a central venous line , withdraw the appropriate amount of reconstituted solution from the vial and add to an infusion container containing at least 100 mL of diluent ( 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection USP ) .
• • For administration through a peripheral venous line , withdraw the appropriate amount of reconstituted solution from the vial and add to an infusion container containing at least 250 mL of diluent ( 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection USP ) .
Administration • • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If particulate matter is observed , do not administer .
• • ZEPZELCA can be administered with or without an in - line filter .
If infusion lines containing in - line filters are utilized for administration of ZEPZELCA , Polyethersulfone ( PES ) in - line filters with pore sizes of 0 . 22 micron are recommended .
• oDo not use in - line nylon membrane filters when the reconstituted ZEPZELCA solution is diluted using 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP .
Adsorption of ZEPZELCA to the Nylon membrane filters has been observed when 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is used as the diluent .
• • Compatibility with other intravenous administration materials and the diluted ZEPZELCA solution has been demonstrated in the following materials : • oPolyolefin containers ( polyethylene , polypropylene and mixtures ) .
• oPolyvinyl Chloride ( PVC ) ( non - DEHP - containing ) , polyurethane and polyolefin infusion sets ( polyethylene , polypropylene and polybutadiene ) .
• oImplantable venous access systems with titanium and plastic resin ports and with polyurethane or silicone intravenous catheters .
• • Do not co - administer ZEPZELCA and other intravenous drugs concurrently within the same intravenous line .
Storage of Infusion Solution • • If not used immediately after reconstitution or dilution , the ZEPZELCA solution can be stored prior to administration for up to 24 hours following reconstitution , including infusion time , at either room temperature / ambient light or under refrigeration at 2ºC - 8ºC ( 36ºF - 46ºF ) conditions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 4 mg of lurbinectedin as a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution prior to intravenous infusion .
For injection : 4 mg lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Myelosuppression : Monitor blood counts prior to each administration .
Initiate treatment with ZEPZELCA only if baseline neutrophil count is ≥ 1 , 500 cells / mm3 and platelet count is ≥ 100 , 000 / mm3 .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA based on severity .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor liver function tests prior to initiating ZEPZELCA , periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA based on severity .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • • Extravasation Resulting in Tissue Necrosis : Consider use of a central venous catheter to reduce the risk of extravasation .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of extravasation during the ZEPZELCA infusion .
If extravasation occurs , immediately discontinue the infusion , remove the infusion catheter , and monitor for signs and symptoms of tissue necrosis .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Rhabdomyolysis : Monitor creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) prior to initiating ZEPZELCA and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA based on severity .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females and males of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use an effective method of contraception .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression ZEPZELCA can cause myelosuppression .
In clinical studies of 554 patients with advanced solid tumors receiving ZEPZELCA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] , Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in 41 % of patients , with a median time to onset of 15 days and a median duration of 7 days .
Febrile neutropenia occurred in 7 % of patients .
Sepsis occurred in 2 % of patients and was fatal in 1 % ( all cases occurred in patients with solid tumors other than SCLC ) .
Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 10 % , with a median time to onset of 10 days and a median duration of 7 days .
Grade 3 or 4 anemia occurred in 17 % of patients .
Administer ZEPZELCA only to patients with baseline neutrophil count of at least 1 , 500 cells / mm3 and platelet count of at least 100 , 000 / mm3 .
Monitor blood counts including neutrophil count and platelet count prior to each administration .
For neutrophil count less than 500 cells / mm3 or any value less than lower limit of normal , the use of G - CSF is recommended .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hepatotoxicity ZEPZELCA can cause hepatotoxicity .
In clinical studies of 554 patients with advanced solid tumors receiving ZEPZELCA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] , Grade 3 elevations of ALT and AST were observed in 6 % and 3 % of patients , respectively , and Grade 4 elevations of ALT and AST were observed in 0 . 4 % and 0 . 5 % of patients , respectively .
The median time to onset of Grade ≥ 3 elevation in transaminases was 8 days ( range : 3 to 49 ) , with a median duration of 7 days .
Monitor liver function tests prior to initiating ZEPZELCA and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue ZEPZELCA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Extravasation Resulting in Tissue Necrosis Extravasation of ZEPZELCA resulting in skin and soft tissue injury , including necrosis requiring debridement , can occur .
Consider use of a central venous catheter to reduce the risk of extravasation , particularly in patients with limited venous access .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of extravasation during the ZEPZELCA infusion .
If extravasation occurs , immediately discontinue the infusion , remove the infusion catheter , and monitor for signs and symptoms of tissue necrosis .
The time to onset of necrosis after extravasation may vary .
Administer supportive care and consult with an appropriate medical specialist as needed for signs and symptoms of extravasation .
Administer subsequent infusions at a site that was not affected by extravasation .
5 . 4 Rhabdomyolysis Rhabdomyolysis has been reported in patients treated with ZEPZELCA .
Monitor creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) prior to initiating ZEPZELCA and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated .
Withhold or reduce the dose based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on animal data and its mechanism of action ZEPZELCA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Intravenous administration of a single dose of lurbinectedin ( approximately 0 . 2 times the 3 . 2 mg / m2 clinical dose ) to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis caused 100 % embryolethality in rats .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 6 months after the final dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 4 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Extravasation Resulting in Tissue Necrosis [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Rhabdomyolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , ( ≥ 20 % ) are leukopenia , lymphopenia , fatigue , anemia , neutropenia , increased creatinine , increased alanine aminotransferase , increased glucose , thrombocytopenia , nausea , decreased appetite , musculoskeletal pain , decreased albumin , constipation , dyspnea , decreased sodium , increased aspartate aminotransferase , vomiting , cough , decreased magnesium and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 520 - 5568 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The pooled safety population described in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS reflect exposure to ZEPZELCA as a single agent at a dose of 3 . 2 mg / m2 intravenously every 21 days in 554 patients with advanced solid tumors .
Among 554 patients who received ZEPZELCA , including 105 patients with small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) in PM1183 - B - 005 - 14 ( Study B - 005 ) , 24 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 5 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Small Cell Lung Cancer ( SCLC ) The safety of ZEPZELCA was evaluated in a cohort of 105 patients with previously treated SCLC in Study B - 005 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients received ZEPZELCA 3 . 2 mg / m2 intravenously every 21 days .
All patients in this study received a pre - specified anti - emetic regimen consisting of a corticosteroid and serotonin antagonist .
Patients could receive G - CSF for secondary prophylaxis ( i . e . , after patients had an initial decrease in WBC ) , but not primary prophylaxis .
Among patients who received ZEPZELCA , 29 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 6 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 34 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 3 % of patients included pneumonia , febrile neutropenia , neutropenia , respiratory tract infection , anemia , dyspnea , and thrombocytopenia .
Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in two patients ( 1 . 9 % ) who received ZEPZELCA .
Adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation in ≥ 1 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA , which included peripheral neuropathy and myelosuppression .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 30 . 5 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption in ≥ 3 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA included neutropenia , and hypoalbuminemia .
Dose reductions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 25 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage reductions in ≥ 3 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA included neutropenia , febrile neutropenia and fatigue .
The most common adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , ( ≥ 20 % ) were leukopenia , lymphopenia , fatigue , anemia , neutropenia , increased creatinine , increased alanine aminotransferase , increased glucose , thrombocytopenia , nausea , decreased appetite , musculoskeletal pain , decreased albumin , constipation , dyspnea , decreased sodium , increased aspartate aminotransferase , vomiting , cough , decreased magnesium and diarrhea .
Table 3 summarizes the adverse reactions in the SCLC cohort of Study B - 005 .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients with SCLC Who Received ZEPZELCA in Study B - 005 Adverse Reaction ZEPZELCA ( n = 105 ) All Gradesa , b ( % ) Grades 3 - 4 ( % ) General disorders Fatigue 77 12 Pyrexia 13 0 Chest pain 10 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 37 0 Constipation 31 0 Vomiting 22 0 Diarrhea 20 4 Abdominal painc 11 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Musculoskeletal paind 33 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 33 1 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Dyspnea 31 6 Coughe 20 0 Infections and infestations Respiratory tract infectionf 18 5 Pneumoniag 10 7 Nervous system disorders Peripheral neuropathyh 11 1 Headache 10 1 • aGraded per NCI CTCAE 4 . 0 .
• bNo grade 5 adverse reactions were reported .
• cIncludes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper and abdominal discomfort .
• dIncludes musculoskeletal pain , back pain , arthralgia , pain in extremity , musculoskeletal chest pain , neck pain , bone pain and myalgia .
• eIncludes cough and productive cough .
• fIncludes upper respiratory tract infection , viral upper respiratory tract infection , respiratory tract infection and bronchitis .
• gIncludes pneumonia and lung infection .
• hIncludes neuropathy peripheral , neuralgia , paresthesia , peripheral sensory neuropathy , hypoesthesia , and hyperesthesia .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients who received ZEPZELCA include dysgeusia , febrile neutropenia and pneumonitis .
Table 4 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in Study B - 005 .
Table 4 : Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 20 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients with SCLC Who Received ZEPZELCA in Study B - 005 Laboratory Abnormality ZEPZELCAa ( n = 105 ) All Gradesb ( % ) Grades 3 - 4 ( % ) Hematology Decreased leukocytes 79 29 Decreased lymphocytes 79 43 Decreased hemoglobin 74 10 Decreased neutrophils 71 46 Decreased platelets 37 7 Chemistry Increased creatinine 69 0 Increased alanine aminotransferase 66 4 Increased glucose 52 5 Decreased albumin 32 1 Decreased sodium 31 7 Increased aspartate aminotransferase 26 2 Decreased magnesium 22 0 • aThe denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 95 to 105 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
• bGraded per NCI CTCAE 4 . 0 .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ZEPZELCA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General disorders and administration site conditions : Extravasation including tissue necrosis requiring debridement .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Rhabdomyolysis .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Tumor lysis syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors : Avoid coadministration .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers : Avoid coadministration .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on ZEPZELCA Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong or a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increases lurbinectedin systemic exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions to ZEPZELCA .
Avoid coadministration of ZEPZELCA with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors .
If the coadministration of ZEPZELCA with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor cannot be avoided , consider dose reduction of ZEPZELCA , if clinically indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases lurbinectedin systemic exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] which may reduce ZEPZELCA efficacy .
Avoid coadministration of ZEPZELCA with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data and its mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , ZEPZELCA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data to inform the risk of ZEPZELCA use in pregnant women .
Intravenous administration of a single lurbinectedin dose ( approximately 0 . 2 times the 3 . 2 mg / m2 clinical dose ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis caused embryolethality ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In a reproductive toxicity study , administration of a single lurbinectedin dose of 0 . 6 mg / m2 ( approximately 0 . 2 times of the human dose of 3 . 2 mg / m2 ) to pregnant rats on Gestation Day 10 resulted in 100 % post - implantation loss .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lurbinectedin in human milk or its effects on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from ZEPZELCA in breastfed children , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 2 weeks after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ZEPZELCA can cause embryolethality at doses lower than the human dose of 3 . 2 mg / m2 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ZEPZELCA .
Contraception Females Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 6 months after the final dose .
Males Advise males with a female sexual partner of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 4 months after the final dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ZEPZELCA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 105 patients with SCLC administered ZEPZELCA in clinical studies , 37 ( 35 % ) patients were 65 years of age and older , while 9 ( 9 % ) patients were 75 years of age and older .
No overall difference in effectiveness was observed between patients aged 65 and older and younger patients .
There was a higher incidence of serious adverse reactions in patients ≥ 65 years of age than in patients < 65 years of age ( 49 % vs . 26 % , respectively ) .
The serious adverse reactions most frequently reported in patients ≥ 65 years of age were related to myelosuppression and consisted of febrile neutropenia ( 11 % ) , neutropenia ( 11 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 8 % ) , and anemia ( 8 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) on the pharmacokinetics of lurbinectedin has not been studied .
No dose adjustment of ZEPZELCA is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN , or total bilirubin 1 . 0 ‑ 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ZEPZELCA is an alkylating drug .
The chemical name of ZEPZELCA ( lurbinectedin ) is ( 1 ’ R , 6 R , 6 aR , 7 R , 13 S , 14 S , 16 R ) - 8 , 14 - dihydroxy - 6 ’ , 9 - dimethoxy - 4 , 10 , 23 - trimethyl - 19 - oxo - 2 ’ , 3 ’ , 4 ’ , 6 , 7 , 9 ’ , 12 , 13 , 14 , 16 - decahydro - 6 aH - spiro [ 7 , 13 - azano - 6 , 16 - ( epithiopropanooxymethano ) [ 1 , 3 ] dioxolo [ 7 , 8 ] isoquinolino [ 3 , 2 - b ] [ 3 ] benzazocine - 20 , 1 ’ - pyrido [ 3 , 4 - b ] indol ] - 5 - yl acetate .
The molecular formula is C41H44N4O10S .
The molecular weight is 784 . 87 g / mol , and the chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ZEPZELCA for injection 4 mg is supplied as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution for intravenous use .
The ZEPZELCA lyophilized formulation is comprised of 4 mg lurbinectedin , sucrose ( 800 mg ) , lactic acid ( 22 . 1 mg ) , and sodium hydroxide ( 5 . 1 mg ) .
Before use , the lyophilizate is reconstituted by addition of 8 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP , yielding a solution containing 0 . 5 mg / mL lurbinectedin ( the calculated concentration is 0 . 47 mg / mL based on the final volume of 8 . 5 mL ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lurbinectedin is an alkylating drug that binds guanine residues in the minor groove of DNA , forming adducts and resulting in a bending of the DNA helix towards the major groove .
Adduct formation triggers a cascade of events that can affect the subsequent activity of DNA binding proteins , including some transcription factors , and DNA repair pathways , resulting in perturbation of the cell cycle and eventual cell death .
Lurbinectedin inhibited human monocyte activity in vitro and reduced macrophage infiltration in implanted tumors in mice .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Lurbinectedin exposure - response relationships and the pharmacodynamic time - course for efficacy have not been fully characterized .
Increased incidence of Grade 4 neutropenia and Grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia were observed with increased lurbinectedin exposure .
Cardiac Electrophysiology No large mean increase in QTc ( i . e . > 20 ms ) was detected following treatment with ZEPZELCA at the recommended dose of 3 . 2 mg / m2 .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following the approved recommended dosage , geometric means ( % CV ) of plasma Cmax and AUC0 - inf , were 107 µg / L ( 79 % ) and 551 µg • h / L ( 94 % ) , respectively .
No accumulation of lurbinectedin in plasma is observed upon repeated administrations every 3 weeks .
Distribution The volume of distribution of lurbinectedin at steady state is 504 L ( 39 % ) .
Plasma protein binding is approximately 99 % , to both albumin and α - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Elimination The terminal half - life of lurbinectedin is 51 hours .
Total plasma clearance of lurbinectedin is 11 L / h ( 50 % ) .
Metabolism Lurbinectedin is metabolized by CYP3A4 , in vitro .
Excretion After a single dose of radiolabeled lurbinectedin administration , 89 % of the radioactivity was recovered in feces ( < 0 . 2 % unchanged ) and 6 % in urine ( 1 % unchanged ) .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of lurbinectedin were identified based on age ( 18 - 85 years ) , sex , body weight ( 39 - 154 kg ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to 89 mL / min ) or mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN , or total bilirubin between 1 . 0 – 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) .
The effects of severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) and moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) on the pharmacokinetics of lurbinectedin have not been studied .
Drug Interactions Studies Dedicated clinical drug - drug interaction studies with CYP3A modulators have not been conducted with lurbinectedin .
In vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : Lurbinectedin is metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Lurbinectedin is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , or CYP3A4 .
Lurbinectedin is not an inducer of CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 .
Transporter Systems : Lurbinectedin is a substrate of MDR1 , but is not a substrate of OATB1P1 , OATP1B3 , OCT1 , or MATE1 .
Lurbinectedin inhibits MDR1 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , and OCT1 but not BCRP , BSEP , MATE1 , OAT1 , OAT3 , or OCT2 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity testing of lurbinectedin has not been performed .
Lurbinectedin is genotoxic to mammalian cells in the presence and absence of metabolic activation .
Lurbinectedin was not mutagenic in vitro in a bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay .
Fertility studies with lurbinectedin were not performed .
There were no findings in reproductive organs in general toxicology studies in rats , dogs , or monkeys ; however , the highest doses and exposures in these studies were all at levels lower than those at the human dose of 3 . 2 mg / m2 .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES PM1183 - B - 005 - 14 ( Study B - 005 ; NCT02454972 ) is a multicenter , open - label , multi - cohort trial evaluating ZEPZELCA as a single agent in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors .
A cohort of patients with small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) with disease progression on or after platinum - based chemotherapy received ZEPZELCA 3 . 2 mg / m2 by intravenous infusion every 21 days ( one cycle ) .
Patients received a median of 4 cycles of ZEPZELCA ( range 1 to 24 cycles ) .
The trial excluded patients with central nervous system ( CNS ) involvement , grade ≥ 3 dyspnea , daily intermittent oxygen requirement , hepatitis or cirrhosis , and immunocompromised patients .
Tumor assessments were conducted every 6 weeks for the first 18 weeks and every 9 weeks thereafter .
The major efficacy outcome measure was confirmed investigator - assessed overall response rate ( ORR ) .
Additional efficacy outcome measures included duration of response ( DoR ) , and an Independent Review Committee ( IRC ) assessed ORR using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( RECIST v1 . 1 ) .
A total of 105 patients with SCLC who progressed on or after platinum - based chemotherapy were enrolled .
The median age was 60 years ( range : 40 to 83 ) with 65 % of patients < 65 years and 35 % of patients ≥ 65 years , and 60 % were male .
The majority ( 75 % ) of the patients were White , 1 % were Asian , 1 % were Black and 23 % were not reported .
Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 or 1 in 92 % of patients , and 92 % were former / current smokers .
All patients received at least one line of platinum - based chemotherapy ( range 1 - 2 lines ) , and prior radiotherapy had been administered to 71 % of patients .
Eight patients ( 8 % ) had prior immunotherapy in addition to platinum - based chemotherapy .
Sixty patients ( 57 % ) had platinum - sensitive SCLC , defined as recurrence or progression ≥ 90 days after the last dose of platinum - containing therapy ( chemotherapy free interval [ CTFI ] ≥ 90 days ) .
The remaining 45 patients had platinum - resistant SCLC , defined as recurrence or progression < 90 days after the last dose of platinum - containing therapy ( CTFI < 90 days ) .
Table 5 summarizes investigator - assessed and independent review committee assessed key efficacy measures in all patients and in platinum - resistant and platinum - sensitive subgroups .
Table 5 : Efficacy Results in SCLC Cohort of Study B - 005 Investigator Assessed Responsea ZEPZELCA All Patients ( n = 105 ) ZEPZELCA CTFI < 90 days ( n = 45 ) ZEPZELCA CTFI ≥ 90 days ( n = 60 ) Overall Response Rate ( 95 % CI ) 35 % ( 26 % , 45 % ) 22 % ( 11 % , 37 % ) 45 % ( 32 % , 58 % ) Complete response 0 % 0 % 0 % Partial response 35 % 22 % 45 % Duration of Response Median in months ( 95 % CI ) 5 . 3 ( 4 . 1 , 6 . 4 ) 4 . 7 ( 2 . 6 , 5 . 6 ) 6 . 2 ( 3 . 5 , 7 . 3 ) % with ≥ 6 monthsb 35 % 10 % 44 % Independent Review Committee Assessed Responsea All Patients ( n = 105 ) CTFI < 90 days ( n = 45 ) CTFI ≥ 90 days ( n = 60 ) Overall Response Rate ( 95 % CI ) 30 % ( 22 % , 40 % ) 13 % ( 5 % , 27 % ) 43 % ( 31 % , 57 % ) Complete response 0 % 0 % 0 % Partial response 30 % 13 % 43 % Duration of Response Median in months ( 95 % CI ) 5 . 1 ( 4 . 9 , 6 . 4 ) 4 . 8 ( 2 . 4 , 5 . 3 ) 5 . 3 ( 4 . 9 , 7 . 0 ) % with ≥ 6 monthsb 25 % 0 % 31 % • CI : confidence interval , CTFI : chemotherapy free interval 15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied ZEPZELCA ( lurbinectedin ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , white to off ‑ white lyophilized powder in a single - dose clear glass vial .
Each carton ( NDC 68727 ‑ 712 - 01 ) contains 4 mg in one single - dose vial .
Storage and Handling Store refrigerated at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
ZEPZELCA is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Myelosuppression Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider for fever , other signs of infection , unusual bruising , bleeding , tiredness or pallor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms suggestive of hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Extravasation Resulting in Tissue Necrosis Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of extravasation .
The time to onset of necrosis after extravasation may vary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Rhabdomyolysis Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of rhabdomyolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • • Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 6 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 4 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for at least 2 weeks after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their healthcare providers of all concomitant medications , herbal and dietary supplements .
Advise patients to avoid grapefruit products during treatment with ZEPZELCA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Palo Alto , CA 94304 Under license from Pharma Mar , S . A . Protected by U . S . Patent No . 7 , 763 , 615 Patient Information PATIENT INFORMATION ZEPZELCA ® [ zep zel ' kah ] ( lurbinectedin ) for injection What is ZEPZELCA ?
• ZEPZELCA is used to treat adults with a kind of lung cancer called small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) .
ZEPZELCA may be used when your lung cancer : • ohas spread to other parts of the body ( metastatic ) , and • oyou have received treatment with chemotherapy that contains platinum , and it did not work or is no longer working .
It is not known if ZEPZELCA is safe and effective in children .
Before receiving ZEPZELCA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have liver or kidney problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
ZEPZELCA can harm your unborn baby .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • oYour healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with ZEPZELCA .
• oYou should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with and for 6 months after your final dose of ZEPZELCA .
• oTell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think that you are pregnant during treatment with ZEPZELCA .
• Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant should use effective birth control during treatment with and for 4 months after your final dose of ZEPZELCA .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ZEPZELCA passes into your breastmilk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with ZEPZELCA and for 2 weeks after your final dose of ZEPZELCA .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with ZEPZELCA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Certain other medicines may affect how ZEPZELCA works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How will I receive ZEPZELCA ?
• • ZEPZELCA is given by an intravenous ( IV ) infusion into a vein over 60 minutes .
• • ZEPZELCA is usually given every 21 days .
• • Before each treatment with ZEPZELCA , you may receive medicines to help prevent nausea and vomiting or make it less severe .
• • Your healthcare provider will decide how long you will continue treatment with ZEPZELCA .
• • Your healthcare provider may do certain tests during your treatment with ZEPZELCA to check you for side effects , and to see how well you respond to the treatment .
What should I avoid while using ZEPZELCA ?
• • Avoid eating or drinking grapefruit , or products that contain grapefruit juice during treatment with ZEPZELCA .
What are the possible side effects of ZEPZELCA ?
• • ZEPZELCA can cause serious side effects , including : • • Low blood cell counts .
Low blood counts including low neutrophil counts ( neutropenia ) and low platelet counts ( thrombocytopenia ) are common with ZEPZELCA , and can also be severe .
Some people with low white blood cell counts may get fever , or an infection throughout the body ( sepsis ) , that can cause death .
Your healthcare provider should do blood tests before you receive each treatment with ZEPZELCA to check your blood cell counts .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop : ○ fever or any other signs of infection ○ unusual bruising or bleeding ○ tiredness ○ pale colored skin • • Liver problems .
Increased liver function tests are common with ZEPZELCA and can also be severe .
Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your liver function before you start and during treatment with ZEPZELCA .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop symptoms of liver problems including : ○ loss of appetite ○ nausea or vomiting ○ pain on the right side of your stomach area ( abdomen ) • • Leakage of ZEPZELCA out of your vein during the infusion .
If ZEPZELCA leaks into the tissues around your infusion site , it can cause damage and death of tissue cells around the infusion site .
You may need to have surgery to remove any dead tissue .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you see any ZEPZELCA leaking out of your vein or around the catheter during your infusion , or if you notice any redness , swelling , itching or discomfort at the infusion site at any time .
• • Severe muscle problems ( rhabdomyolysis ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have severe muscle pain or weakness .
Your healthcare provider may temporarily stop treatment , lower your dose , or permanently stop ZEPZELCA if you develop serious side effects during treatment with ZEPZELCA .
The most common side effects of ZEPZELCA include : • • tiredness • • low white and red blood cell counts • • increased kidney function blood test ( creatinine ) • • increased liver function blood tests • • increased blood sugar ( glucose ) • • nausea • • decreased appetite • • muscle and joint ( musculoskeletal ) pain • • low level of albumin in the blood • • constipation • • trouble breathing • • low levels of sodium and magnesium in the blood • • vomiting • • cough • • diarrhea These are not all of the possible side effects of ZEPZELCA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 ‑ 800 ‑ FDA ‑ 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ZEPZELCA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ZEPZELCA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ZEPZELCA ?
Active ingredient : lurbinectedin Inactive ingredients : sucrose , lactic acid and sodium hydroxide .
Distributed by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Palo Alto , CA 94304 Under license from Pharma Mar , S . A . ZEPZELCA is a registered trademark of Pharma Mar , S . A . For more information , go to www . ZEPZELCA . com or call 1 - 800 - 520 - 5568 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 04 / 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton : NDC 68727 - 712 - 01 ZEPZELCA ( lurbinectedin ) for injection 4 mg per vial FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY Reconstitute before further dilution .
Each single - dose vial contains 4 mg of lurbinectedin as a sterile lyophilized powder Rx Only Single - dose vial Discard unused portion .
Caution : Cytotoxic agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial : NDC 68727 - 712 - 01 ZEPZELCA ( lurbinectedin ) for injection 4 mg per vial FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY Single - Dose Vial .
Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
