Active Ingredient Salicylic acid 3 % Purpose Anti - dandruff Use controls the symptoms of : • dandruff • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition which covers a large part of the body When using this product do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water , Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet hair thoroughly • massage shampoo into the scalp • lather .
Leave on hair and scalp for several minutes .
• rinse and repeat • for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Inactive ingredients water , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium C14 - 16 olefin sulfonate , linoleamidopropyl PG - dimonium chloride phosphate , sodium lauroyl sarcosinate , polyquaternium - 22 , hexylene glycol , sodium citrate CVS Health Therapeutic Dandruff Shampoo with Salicylic Acid helps clear and prevent flakes and scalp build - up caused by dandruff , seborrheic dermatitis and psoriasis .
Its fragrance - free formula with maximum strength 3 % salicylic acid is suitable for everyday use on all hair types .
• Helps to break down the crusty , flaky buildup on the scalp • Free of fragrance , color , alcohol & preservatives * This product is not manufactured or distributed by the Johnson & Johnson Corporation , owner of the registered trademark Neutrogena T / Sal .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
Once CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 ( c ) 2016 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in the USA with US and foreign components Principal Display Panel CVS Health Compare to Neutrogena T / Sal Therapeutic Shampoo * Maximum Strength Therapeutic Dandruff Shampoo 3 % Salicyic Acid Helps clear and prevent flakes and scalp buildup Helps control and prevent the recurrence of the symptoms of dandruff , seborrheic dermatitis and psoriasis 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
