DESCRIPTION Danazol is a synthetic steroid derived from ethisterone .
It is a white to pale yellow crystalline powder , practically insoluble or insoluble in water , and sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Chemically , danazol is 17α - Pregna - 2 , 4 - dien - 20 - yno [ 2 , 3 - d ] - isoxazol - 17 - ol .
The molecular formula is C22H27NO2 .
It has a molecular weight of 337 . 46 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Danazol capsules for oral administration contain 50 mg , 100 mg or 200 mg danazol .
Inactive Ingredients : anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc .
Capsule shells for 200 mg danazol contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 40 , D & C Red # 28 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
Capsule shells for 50 mg and 100 mg danazol contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 40 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The capsule imprinting ink contains : shellac glaze in ethanol , iron oxide black , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , ethanol , methanol , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , and D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Danazol suppresses the pituitary - ovarian axis .
This suppression is probably a combination of depressed hypothalamic - pituitary response to lowered estrogen production , the alteration of sex steroid metabolism , and interaction of danazol with sex hormone receptors .
The only other demonstrable hormonal effect is weak androgenic activity .
Danazol depresses the output of both follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) .
Recent evidence suggests a direct inhibitory effect at gonadal sites and a binding of danazol to receptors of gonadal steroids at target organs .
In addition , danazol has been shown to significantly decrease IgG , IgM and IgA levels , as well as phospholipid and IgG isotope autoantibodies in patients with endometriosis and associated elevations of autoantibodies , suggesting this could be another mechanism by which it facilitates regression of the disease .
In the treatment of endometriosis , danazol alters the normal and ectopic endometrial tissue so that it becomes inactive and atrophic .
Complete resolution of endometrial lesions occurs in the majority of cases .
Changes in vaginal cytology and cervical mucus reflect the suppressive effect of danazol on the pituitary - ovarian axis .
Changes in the menstrual pattern may occur .
Generally , the pituitary - suppressive action of danazol is reversible .
Ovulation and cyclic bleeding usually return within 60 to 90 days when therapy with danazol is discontinued .
In the treatment of hereditary angioedema , danazol at effective doses prevents attacks of the disease characterized by episodic edema of the abdominal viscera , extremities , face , and airway which may be disabling and , if the airway is involved , fatal .
In addition , danazol corrects partially or completely the primary biochemical abnormality of hereditary angioedema by increasing the levels of the deficient C1 esterase inhibitor ( C1EI ) .
As a result of this action the serum levels of the C4 component of the complement system are also increased .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After oral administration of a 400 mg dose to healthy male volunteers , peak plasma concentrations of danazol are reached between 2 and 8 hours , with a median Tmax value of 4 hours .
Steady state conditions are observed following 6 days of twice daily dosing of danazol capsules .
The pharmacokinetic parameters for danazol capsules after administering a 400 mg oral dose to healthy males are summarized in the following table : Parameters Mean ± SD ( n = 15 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 69 . 6 ± 29 . 9 Tmax ( h ) 2 . 47 ± 1 . 62 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng * h / mL ) 601 ± 181 t1 / 2 ( h ) 9 . 70 ± 3 . 29 Total Body Clearance ( L / h ) 727 ± 221 The pharmacokinetic parameters for danazol capsules after oral administration of 100 , 200 and 400 mg single doses to healthy female volunteers are summarized in the following table : Dose ( mg ) Mean Cmax ± SD ( ng / mL ) Mean Tmax ( h ) Mean AUC0 - ∞ ± SD ( ng * h / mL ) Fasting Fed Fasting Fed Fasting Fed 100 45 . 9 ± 23 . 9 113 . 8 ± 46 . 0 1 - 8 2 - 6 484 ± 263 741 ± 265 200 63 . 8 ± 27 . 7 159 ± 57 . 3 1 - 6 2 - 4 681 ± 363 1252 ± 307 400 60 . 4 ± 30 . 0 253 . 7 ± 105 . 5 1 - 6 2 - 4 754 ± 443 1851 ± 605 Dose proportionality : Bioavailability studies indicate that blood levels do not increase proportionally with increases in the administered dose .
Single dose administration of danazol capsules in healthy female volunteers found that a 4 - fold increase in dose produced only a 1 . 6 and 2 . 5 - fold increase in AUC and a 1 . 3 and 2 . 2 - fold increase in Cmax in the fasted and fed state , respectively .
A similar degree of non - dose proportionality was observed at steady state .
Food Effect : Single dose administration of 100 mg and 200 mg capsules of danazol to female volunteers showed that both the extent of availability and the maximum plasma concentration increased by 3 to 4 fold , respectively , following a meal ( > 30 grams of fat ) , when compared to the fasted state .
Further , food also delayed mean time to peak concentration of danazol by about 30 minutes .
Even after multiple dosing under less extreme food / fasting conditions , there remained approximately a 2 to 2 . 5 fold difference in bioavailability between the fed and fasted states .
Distribution : Danazol is lipophilic and can partition into cell membranes , indicating the likelihood of distribution into deep tissue compartments .
Metabolism and Excretion : Danazol appears to be metabolized and the metabolites are eliminated by renal and fecal pathways .
The two primary metabolites excreted in the urine are 2 - hydroxymethyl danazol and ethisterone .
At least ten different products were identified in feces .
The reported elimination half - life of danazol is variable across studies .
The mean half - life of danazol in healthy males is 9 . 7 h .
After 6 months of 200 mg three times a day dosing in endometriosis patients , the half - life of danazol was reported as 23 . 7 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Endometriosis .
Danazol capsules are indicated for the treatment of endometriosis amenable to hormonal management .
Hereditary Angioedema .
Danazol capsules are indicated for the prevention of attacks of angioedema of all types ( cutaneous , abdominal , laryngeal ) in males and females .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Danazol capsules should not be administered to patients with : • Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding .
• Markedly impaired hepatic , renal , or cardiac function .
• Pregnancy ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Breast feeding .
• Porphyria - Danazol capsules can induce ALA synthetase activity and hence porphyrin metabolism .
• Androgen - dependent tumor .
• Active thrombosis or thromboembolic disease and history of such events .
• Hypersensitivity to danazol .
WARNINGS Use of danazol in pregnancy is contraindicated .
A sensitive test ( e . g . , beta subunit test if available ) capable of determining early pregnancy is recommended immediately prior to start of therapy .
Additionally a non - hormonal method of contraception should be used during therapy .
If a patient becomes pregnant while taking danazol , administration of the drug should be discontinued and the patient should be apprised of the potential risk to the fetus .
Exposure to danazol in utero may result in androgenic effects on the female fetus ; reports of clitoral hypertrophy , labial fusion , urogenital sinus defect , vaginal atresia , and ambiguous genitalia have been received ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy , Teratogenic Effects ) .
Thromboembolism , thrombotic and thrombophlebitic events including sagittal sinus thrombosis and life - threatening or fatal strokes have been reported .
Experience with long - term therapy with danazol is limited .
Peliosis hepatis and benign hepatic adenoma have been observed with long - term use .
Peliosis hepatis and hepatic adenoma may be silent until complicated by acute , potentially life - threatening intraabdominal hemorrhage .
The physician therefore should be alert to this possibility .
Attempts should be made to determine the lowest dose that will provide adequate protection .
If the drug was begun at a time of exacerbation of hereditary angioneurotic edema due to trauma , stress or other cause , periodic attempts to decrease or withdraw therapy should be considered .
Danazol has been associated with several cases of benign intracranial hypertension also known as pseudotumor cerebri .
Early signs and symptoms of benign intracranial hypertension include papilledema , headache , nausea and vomiting , and visual disturbances .
Patients with these symptoms should be screened for papilledema and , if present , the patients should be advised to discontinue danazol immediately and be referred to a neurologist for further diagnosis and care .
A temporary alteration of lipoproteins in the form of decreased high density lipoproteins and possibly increased low density lipoproteins has been reported during danazol therapy .
These alterations may be marked , and prescribers should consider the potential impact on the risk of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease in accordance with the potential benefit of the therapy to the patient .
Patients should be watched closely for signs of androgenic effects some of which may not be reversible even when drug administration is stopped .
PRECAUTIONS Because danazol capsules may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions that might be influenced by this factor , such as epilepsy , migraine , or cardiac or renal dysfunction , polycythemia and hypertension require careful observation .
Use with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Since hepatic dysfunction manifested by modest increases in serum transaminases levels has been reported in patients treated with danazol capsules , periodic liver function tests should be performed ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Administration of danazol has been reported to cause exacerbation of the manifestations of acute intermittent porphyria ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Laboratory monitoring of the hematologic state should be considered .
Drug Interactions : Prolongation of prothrombin time occurs in patients stabilized on warfarin .
Therapy with danazol may cause an increase in carbamazepine levels in patients taking both drugs .
Danazol can cause insulin resistance .
Caution should be exercised when used with antidiabetic drugs .
Danazol may raise the plasma levels of cyclosporin and tacrolimus , leading to an increase of the renal toxicity of these drugs .
Monitoring of systemic concentrations of these drugs and appropriate dose adjustments may be needed when used concomitantly with danazol .
Danazol can increase the calcemic response to synthetic vitamin D analogs in primary hypoparathyroidism .
The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of danazol with statins such as simvastatin , atorvastatin and lovastatin .
Caution should be exercised if used concomitantly .
Consult the product labeling for statin drugs for specific information on dose restrictions in presence of danazol .
Laboratory Tests : Danazol treatment may interfere with laboratory determinations of testosterone , androstenedione and dehydroepiandrosterone .
Other metabolic events include a reduction in thyroid binding globulin and T4 with increased uptake of T3 , but without disturbance of thyroid stimulating hormone or of free thyroxin index .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Current data are insufficient to assess the carcinogenicity of danazol .
Pregnancy , Teratogenic Effects : ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Danazol administered orally to pregnant rats from the 6 th through the 15 th day of gestation at doses up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 7 - 15 times the human dose ) did not result in drug - induced embryotoxicity or teratogenicity , nor difference in litter size , viability or weight of offspring compared to controls .
In rabbits , the administration of danazol on days 6 - 18 of gestation at doses of 60 mg / kg / day and above ( 2 - 4 times the human dose ) resulted in inhibition of fetal development .
Nursing Mothers : ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of danazol capsules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine the safety and effectiveness of Danocrine in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following events have been reported in association with the use of danazol capsules : Androgen like effects include weight gain , acne and seborrhea .
Mild hirsutism , edema , hair loss , voice change , which may take the form of hoarseness , sore throat or of instability or deepening of pitch , may occur and may persist after cessation of therapy .
Hypertrophy of the clitoris is rare .
Other possible endocrine effects are menstrual disturbances including spotting , alteration of the timing of the cycle and amenorrhea .
Although cyclical bleeding and ovulation usually return within 60 - 90 days after discontinuation of therapy with danazol capsules , persistent amenorrhea has occasionally been reported .
Flushing , sweating , vaginal dryness and irritation and reduction in breast size , may reflect lowering of estrogen .
Nervousness and emotional lability have been reported .
In the male a modest reduction in spermatogenesis may be evident during treatment .
Abnormalities in semen volume , viscosity , sperm count , and motility may occur in patients receiving long - term therapy .
Hepatic dysfunction , as evidenced by reversible elevated serum enzymes and / or jaundice , has been reported in patients receiving a daily dosage of danazol capsules of 400 mg or more .
It is recommended that patients receiving danazol capsules be monitored for hepatic dysfunction by laboratory tests and clinical observation .
Serious hepatic toxicity including cholestatic jaundice , peliosis hepatis , hepatic adenoma , hepatocellular injury , hepatocellular jaundice and hepatic failure have been reported ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Abnormalities in laboratory tests may occur during therapy with danazol capsules including CPK , glucose tolerance , glucagon , thyroid binding globulin , sex hormone binding globulin , other plasma proteins , lipids and lipoproteins .
The following reactions have been reported , a causal relationship to the administration of danazol capsules has neither been confirmed nor refuted ; allergic : urticaria , pruritus and rarely , nasal congestion ; CNS effects : headache , nervousness and emotional lability , dizziness and fainting , depression , fatigue , sleep disorders , tremor , paresthesias , weakness , visual disturbances , and rarely , benign intracranial hypertension , anxiety , changes in appetite , chills , and rarely convulsions , Guillain - Barre syndrome ; gastrointestinal : gastroenteritis , nausea , vomiting , constipation , and rarely , pancreatitis and splenic peliosis ; musculoskeletal : muscle cramps or spasms , or pains , joint pain , joint lockup , joint swelling , pain in back , neck , or extremities , and rarely , carpal tunnel syndrome which may be secondary to fluid retention ; genitourinary : hematuria , prolonged posttherapy amenorrhea ; hematologic : an increase in red cell and platelet count .
Reversible erythrocytosis , leukocytosis or polycythemia may be provoked .
Eosinophilia , leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have also been noted .
Skin : rashes ( maculopapular , vesicular , papular , purpuric , petechial ) , and rarely , sun sensitivity , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and erythema multiforme ; other : increased insulin requirements in diabetic patients , change in libido , myocardial infarction , palpitation , tachycardia , elevation in blood pressure , interstitial pneumonitis , and rarely , cataracts , bleeding gums , fever , pelvic pain , nipple discharge .
Malignant liver tumors have been reported in rare instances , after long - term use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Endometriosis .
In moderate to severe disease , or in patients infertile due to endometriosis , a starting dose of 800 mg given in two divided doses is recommended .
Amenorrhea and rapid response to painful symptoms is best achieved at this dosage level .
Gradual downward titration to a dose sufficient to maintain amenorrhea may be considered depending upon patient response .
For mild cases , an initial daily dose of 200 mg to 400 mg given in two divided doses is recommended and may be adjusted depending on patient response .
Therapy should begin during menstruation .
Otherwise , appropriate tests should be performed to ensure that the patient is not pregnant while on therapy with danazol capsules ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
It is essential that therapy continue uninterrupted for 3 to 6 months but may be extended to 9 months if necessary .
After termination of therapy , if symptoms recur , treatment can be reinstituted .
Hereditary Angioedema .
The dosage requirements for continuous treatment of hereditary angioedema with danazol capsules should be individualized on the basis of the clinical response of the patient .
It is recommended that the patient be started on 200 mg , two or three times a day .
After a favorable initial response is obtained in terms of prevention of episodes of edematous attacks , the proper continuing dosage should be determined by decreasing the dosage by 50 % or less at intervals of one to three months or longer if frequency of attacks prior to treatment dictates .
If an attack occurs , the daily dosage may be increased by up to 200 mg .
During the dose adjusting phase , close monitoring of the patient ' s response is indicated , particularly if the patient has a history of airway involvement .
HOW SUPPLIED Danazol Capsules USP , 50 mg are available as maize opaque / white opaque capsules imprinted with logo " LANNETT " on the cap and " 1392 " on the body and are supplied in : Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0527 - 1392 - 01 ) Danazol Capsules USP , 100 mg are available as maize opaque / maize opaque capsules imprinted with logo " LANNETT " on the cap and " 1368 " on the body and are supplied in : Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0527 - 1368 - 01 ) Danazol Capsules USP , 200 mg are available as orange opaque / orange opaque capsules imprinted with logo " LANNETT " on the cap and " 1369 " on the body and are supplied in : Bottles of 60 ( NDC 0527 - 1369 - 06 ) Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0527 - 1369 - 01 ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well - closed container with a child - resistant closure as defined in the USP .
Distributed by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19136 CIB70495E Rev . 04 / 20 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg NDC 0527 - 1392 - 01 Danazol Capsules , USP 50 mg Rx Only 100 Capsules Lannett [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg NDC - 0527 - 1368 - 01 Danazol Capsules , USP 100 mg Rx Only 100 Capsules Lannett [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg NDC - 0527 - 1369 - 01 Danazol Capsules , USP 200 mg Rx Only 100 Capsules Lannett [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
