Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) 01 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLARINEX is a histamine - 1 ( H1 ) receptor antagonist indicated for : • Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis : relief of nasal and non - nasal symptoms in patients 2 years of age and older .
( 1 . 1 ) • Perennial Allergic Rhinitis : relief of nasal and non - nasal symptoms in patients 6 months of age and older .
( 1 . 2 ) • Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria : symptomatic relief of pruritus , reduction in the number of hives , and size of hives in patients 6 months of age and older .
( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis CLARINEX ® is indicated for the relief of the nasal and non - nasal symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older .
1 . 2 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis CLARINEX is indicated for the relief of the nasal and non - nasal symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 6 months of age and older .
1 . 3 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria CLARINEX is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pruritus , reduction in the number of hives , and size of hives , in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria 6 months of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Although the oral solution and the orally disintegrating tablet formulation of desloratadine may be available in the marketplace , CLARINEX ® Oral Solution and CLARINEX ® RediTabs ® Tablets are no longer marketed .
CLARINEX Tablets , Oral Solution , or RediTabs Tablets may be taken without regard to meals .
Place CLARINEX ( desloratadine ) RediTabs Tablets on the tongue and allow to disintegrate before swallowing .
Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly .
Administer with or without water .
Take tablet immediately after opening the blister .
The age - appropriate dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution should be administered with a commercially available measuring dropper or syringe that is calibrated to deliver 2 mL and 2 . 5 mL ( ½ teaspoon ) .
Dosage ( by age ) : Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Over : • CLARINEX Tablets - one 5 mg tablet once daily or • CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets - one 5 mg tablet once daily or • CLARINEX Oral Solution - 2 teaspoonfuls ( 5 mg in 10 mL ) once daily ( 2 ) Children 6 to 11 Years of Age : • CLARINEX Oral Solution - 1 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mg in 5 mL ) once daily or • CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets - one 2 . 5 mg tablet once daily ( 2 ) Children 12 Months to 5 Years of Age : • CLARINEX Oral Solution - 1 / 2 teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 mg in 2 . 5 mL ) once daily ( 2 ) Children 6 to 11 Months of Age : • CLARINEX Oral Solution - 2 mL ( 1 mg ) once daily ( 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Over The recommended dose of CLARINEX Tablets or CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets is one 5 - mg tablet once daily .
The recommended dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution is 2 teaspoonfuls ( 5 mg in 10 mL ) once daily .
2 . 2 Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution is 1 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 mg in 5 mL ) once daily .
The recommended dose of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets is one 2 . 5 - mg tablet once daily .
2 . 3 Children 12 Months to 5 Years of Age The recommended dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution is ½ teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 mg in 2 . 5 mL ) once daily .
2 . 4 Children 6 to 11 Months of Age The recommended dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution is 2 mL ( 1 mg ) once daily .
2 . 5 Adults with Hepatic or Renal Impairment In adult patients with liver or renal impairment , a starting dose of one 5 - mg tablet every other day is recommended based on pharmacokinetic data .
Dosing recommendation for children with liver or renal impairment cannot be made due to lack of data [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS CLARINEX Tablets are light blue , film - coated tablets embossed with " C5 " containing 5 mg desloratadine .
• CLARINEX Tablets - 5 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CLARINEX Tablets , RediTabs , and Oral Solution are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this medication or to any of its ingredients or to loratadine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity ( 4 , 6 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions including rash , pruritus , urticaria , edema , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis have been reported .
In such cases , stop CLARINEX at once and consider alternative treatments .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions including rash , pruritus , urticaria , edema , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis have been reported after administration of desloratadine .
If such a reaction occurs , therapy with CLARINEX should be stopped and alternative treatment should be considered .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) . ]
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Hypersensitivity reactions .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
• The most common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 2 % of adult and adolescent patients with allergic rhinitis and greater than placebo ) were pharyngitis , dry mouth , myalgia , fatigue , somnolence , dysmenorrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , at 1 - 877 - 888 - 4231 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Adults and Adolescents Allergic Rhinitis : In multiple - dose placebo - controlled trials , 2834 patients ages 12 years or older received CLARINEX Tablets at doses of 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg daily , of whom 1655 patients received the recommended daily dose of 5 mg .
In patients receiving 5 mg daily , the rate of adverse events was similar between CLARINEX and placebo - treated patients .
The percent of patients who withdrew prematurely due to adverse events was 2 . 4 % in the CLARINEX group and 2 . 6 % in the placebo group .
There were no serious adverse events in these trials in patients receiving desloratadine .
All adverse events that were reported by greater than or equal to 2 % of patients who received the recommended daily dose of CLARINEX Tablets ( 5 mg once daily ) , and that were more common with CLARINEX Tablets than placebo , are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Incidence of Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 2 % of Adult and Adolescent Allergic Rhinitis Patients Receiving CLARINEX TabletsAdverse Event CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg ( n = 1655 ) Placebo ( n = 1652 ) Infections and Infestations Pharyngitis 4 . 1 % 2 . 0 % Nervous System Disorders Somnolence 2 . 1 % 1 . 8 % Gastrointestinal Disorders Dry Mouth 3 . 0 % 1 . 9 % Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Myalgia 2 . 1 % 1 . 8 % Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea 2 . 1 % 1 . 6 % General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 . 1 % 1 . 2 % The frequency and magnitude of laboratory and electrocardiographic abnormalities were similar in CLARINEX and placebo - treated patients .
There were no differences in adverse events for subgroups of patients as defined by gender , age , or race .
Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria : In multiple - dose , placebo - controlled trials of chronic idiopathic urticaria , 211 patients ages 12 years or older received CLARINEX Tablets and 205 received placebo .
Adverse events that were reported by greater than or equal to 2 % of patients who received CLARINEX Tablets and that were more common with CLARINEX than placebo were ( rates for CLARINEX and placebo , respectively ) : headache ( 14 % , 13 % ) , nausea ( 5 % , 2 % ) , fatigue ( 5 % , 1 % ) , dizziness ( 4 % , 3 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 % , 2 % ) , dyspepsia ( 3 % , 1 % ) , and myalgia ( 3 % , 1 % ) .
Pediatrics Two hundred and forty - six pediatric subjects 6 months to 11 years of age received CLARINEX Oral Solution for 15 days in three placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Pediatric subjects aged 6 to 11 years received 2 . 5 mg once a day , subjects aged 1 to 5 years received 1 . 25 mg once a day , and subjects 6 to 11 months of age received 1 . 0 mg once a day .
In subjects 6 to 11 years of age , no individual adverse event was reported by 2 percent or more of the subjects .
In subjects 2 to 5 years of age , adverse events reported for CLARINEX and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Oral Solution and at a frequency greater than placebo were fever ( 5 . 5 % , 5 . 4 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 3 . 6 % , 0 % ) and varicella ( 3 . 6 % , 0 % ) .
In subjects 12 months to 23 months of age , adverse events reported for the CLARINEX product and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Oral Solution and at a frequency greater than placebo were fever ( 16 . 9 % , 12 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 15 . 4 % , 11 . 3 % ) , upper respiratory tract infections ( 10 . 8 % , 9 . 7 % ) , coughing ( 10 . 8 % , 6 . 5 % ) , appetite increased ( 3 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , emotional lability ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , epistaxis ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , parasitic infection ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) , rash maculopapular ( 3 . 1 % , 0 % ) .
In subjects 6 months to 11 months of age , adverse events reported for CLARINEX and placebo in at least 2 percent of subjects receiving CLARINEX Oral Solution and at a frequency greater than placebo were upper respiratory tract infections ( 21 . 2 % , 12 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 19 . 7 % , 8 . 1 % ) , fever ( 12 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , irritability ( 12 . 1 % , 11 . 3 % ) , coughing ( 10 . 6 % , 9 . 7 % ) , somnolence ( 9 . 1 % , 8 . 1 % ) , bronchitis ( 6 . 1 % , 0 % ) , otitis media ( 6 . 1 % , 1 . 6 % ) , vomiting ( 6 . 1 % , 3 . 2 % ) , anorexia ( 4 . 5 % , 1 . 6 % ) , pharyngitis ( 4 . 5 % , 1 . 6 % ) , insomnia ( 4 . 5 % , 0 % ) , rhinorrhea ( 4 . 5 % , 3 . 2 % ) , erythema ( 3 . 0 % , 1 . 6 % ) , and nausea ( 3 . 0 % , 0 % ) .
There were no clinically meaningful changes in any electrocardiographic parameter , including the QTc interval .
Only one of the 246 pediatric subjects receiving CLARINEX Oral Solution in the clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse event .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience Because adverse events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following spontaneous adverse events have been reported during the marketing of desloratadine : Cardiac disorders : tachycardia , palpitations Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash , pruritus Nervous system disorders : psychomotor hyperactivity , movement disorders ( including dystonia , tics , and extrapyramidal symptoms ) , seizures ( reported in patients with and without a known seizure disorder ) Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions ( such as urticaria , edema and anaphylaxis ) Investigations : elevated liver enzymes including bilirubin Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatitis Metabolism and nutrition disorders : increased appetite 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with ketoconazole , erythromycin , or azithromycin resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 hydroxydesloratadine , but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
7 . 2 Fluoxetine In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with fluoxetine , a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) , resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 hydroxydesloratadine , but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
7 . 3 Cimetidine In controlled clinical studies co - administration of desloratadine with cimetidine , a histamine H2 - receptor antagonist , resulted in increased plasma concentrations of desloratadine and 3 hydroxydesloratadine , but there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal impairment : dosage adjustment is recommended ( 2 . 5 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) • Hepatic impairment : dosage adjustment is recommended ( 2 . 5 , 8 . 7 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with CLARINEX in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Desloratadine given during organogenesis to pregnant rats was not teratogenic at the summed area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) - based exposures of desloratadine and its metabolite approximately 320 times that at the recommended human daily oral dose ( RHD ) of 5 mg / day .
Desloratadine given during organogenesis to pregnant rabbits was not teratogenic at the AUC - based exposures of desloratadine approximately 230 times that at the RHD .
Desloratadine given to pregnant rats during organogenesis through lactation resulted in reduced body weight and slow righting reflex of F1 pups at the summed AUC - based exposures of desloratadine and its metabolite approximately 70 times or greater than that at the RHD [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Desloratadine was given orally during organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses of 6 , 24 and 48 mg / kg / day ( approximately 50 , 200 and 320 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
No fetal malformations were present .
Reduced fetal weights and skeletal variations noted at doses of 24 and 48 mg / kg / day were likely secondary to the maternal toxicities of reduced body weight gain and food consumption observed at the same doses .
Desloratadine was also given orally during organogenesis to pregnant rabbits at doses of 15 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day ( approximately 30 , 70 and 230 times the AUC - based exposure of desloratadine at the RHD ) .
No adverse effects to the fetus were noted .
Reduced maternal body weight gain was noted in rabbits at 60 mg / kg / day .
In a peri - and post - natal development study , desloratadine was given to rats orally during the peri - natal ( Gestation Day 6 ) through lactation periods ( Postpartum Day 21 ) at doses of 3 , 9 and 18 mg / kg / day .
Reduced body weight and slow righting reflex were reported in F1 pups at doses of 9 mg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 70 times or greater than the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on F1 pup development at 3 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
Maternal toxicities including reduced body weight gain and food consumption were noted at 18 mg / kg / day for F0 dams .
F1 offspring were subsequently mated and there was no developmental toxicity for F2 pups observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Desloratadine passes into breast milk .
There are not sufficient data on the effects of desloratadine on the breastfed infant or the effects of desloratadine on milk production .
The decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue desloratadine , taking into account the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding , the nursing mother ' s clinical need , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from desloratadine or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility There are no data available on human infertility associated with desloratadine .
There were no clinically relevant effects of desloratadine on female fertility in rats .
A male specific decrease in fertility occurred at an oral desloratadine dose of 12 mg / kg or greater in rats ( approximately 65 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
Male fertility was unaffected at a desloratadine dose of 3 mg / kg ( approximately 10 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
[ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) . ]
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The recommended dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution in the pediatric population is based on cross - study comparison of the plasma concentration of CLARINEX in adults and pediatric subjects .
The safety of CLARINEX Oral Solution has been established in 246 pediatric subjects aged 6 months to 11 years in three placebo - controlled clinical studies .
Since the course of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria and the effects of CLARINEX are sufficiently similar in the pediatric and adult populations , it allows extrapolation from the adult efficacy data to pediatric patients .
The effectiveness of CLARINEX Oral Solution in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of CLARINEX Tablets in adults .
The safety and effectiveness of CLARINEX Tablets or CLARINEX Oral Solution have not been demonstrated in pediatric patients less than 6 months of age .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
The CLARINEX RediTabs 2 . 5 - mg tablet has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Bioequivalence of the CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet and the previously marketed RediTabs Tablet was established in adults .
In conjunction with the dose - finding studies in pediatrics described , the pharmacokinetic data for CLARINEX RediTabs supports the use of the 2 . 5 - mg dose strength in pediatric patients 6 to 11 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of desloratadine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment for patients with renal impairment is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Dosage adjustment for patients with hepatic impairment is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE There is no information to indicate that abuse or dependency occurs with CLARINEX Tablets .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
Symptomatic and supportive treatment is recommended .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine are not eliminated by hemodialysis .
Information regarding acute overdosage is limited to experience from post - marketing adverse event reports and from clinical trials conducted during the development of the CLARINEX product .
In a dose - ranging trial , at doses of 10 mg and 20 mg / day somnolence was reported .
In another study , no clinically relevant adverse events were reported in normal male and female volunteers who were given single daily doses of CLARINEX 45 mg for 10 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION CLARINEX ( desloratadine ) Tablets are light blue , round , film - coated tablets containing 5 mg desloratadine , an antihistamine , to be administered orally .
CLARINEX Tablets also contain the following excipients : dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , corn starch NF , talc USP , carnauba wax NF , white wax NF , coating material consisting of lactose monohydrate , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , and FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake .
Desloratadine is a white to off - white powder that is slightly soluble in water , but very soluble in ethanol and propylene glycol .
It has an empirical formula : C19H19ClN2 and a molecular weight of 310 . 8 .
The chemical name is 8 - chloro - 6 , 11 - dihydro - 11 - ( 4 - piperdinylidene ) - 5 H - benzo [ 5 , 6 ] cyclohepta [ 1 , 2 - b ] pyridine and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Desloratadine is a long - acting tricyclic histamine antagonist with selective H1 - receptor histamine antagonist activity .
Receptor binding data indicates that at a concentration of 2 – 3 ng / mL ( 7 nanomolar ) , desloratadine shows significant interaction with the human histamine H1 - receptor .
Desloratadine inhibited histamine release from human mast cells in vitro .
Results of a radiolabeled tissue distribution study in rats and a radioligand H1 - receptor binding study in guinea pigs showed that desloratadine did not readily cross the blood brain barrier .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Wheal and Flare : Human histamine skin wheal studies following single and repeated 5 - mg doses of desloratadine have shown that the drug exhibits an antihistaminic effect by 1 hour ; this activity may persist for as long as 24 hours .
There was no evidence of histamine - induced skin wheal tachyphylaxis within the desloratadine 5 - mg group over the 28 - day treatment period .
The clinical relevance of histamine wheal skin testing is unknown .
Effects on QTc : Single daily doses of 45 mg were given to normal male and female volunteers for 10 days .
All ECGs obtained in this study were manually read in a blinded fashion by a cardiologist .
In CLARINEX - treated subjects , there was an increase in mean heart rate of 9 . 2 bpm relative to placebo .
The QT interval was corrected for heart rate ( QTc ) by both the Bazett and Fridericia methods .
Using the QTc ( Bazett ) there was a mean increase of 8 . 1 msec in CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
Using QTc ( Fridericia ) there was a mean increase of 0 . 4 msec in CLARINEX - treated subjects relative to placebo .
No clinically relevant adverse events were reported .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of a desloratadine 5 - mg tablet once daily for 10 days to normal healthy volunteers , the mean time to maximum plasma concentrations ( Tmax ) occurred at approximately 3 hours post dose and mean steady state peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and AUC of 4 ng / mL and 56 . 9 ng ∙ hr / mL were observed , respectively .
Neither food nor grapefruit juice had an effect on the bioavailability ( Cmax and AUC ) of desloratadine .
The pharmacokinetic profile of CLARINEX Oral Solution was evaluated in a three - way crossover study in 30 adult volunteers .
A single dose of 10 mL of CLARINEX Oral Solution containing 5 mg of desloratadine was bioequivalent to a single dose of 5 - mg CLARINEX Tablet .
Food had no effect on the bioavailability ( AUC and Cmax ) of CLARINEX Oral Solution .
The pharmacokinetic profile of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets was evaluated in a three - way crossover study in 24 adult volunteers .
A single CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet containing 5 mg of desloratadine was bioequivalent to a single 5 - mg CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet ( original formulation ) for both desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine .
Food and water had no effect on the bioavailability ( AUC and Cmax ) of CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets .
Distribution Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine are approximately 82 % to 87 % and 85 % to 89 % bound to plasma proteins , respectively .
Protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered in subjects with impaired renal function .
Metabolism Desloratadine ( a major metabolite of loratadine ) is extensively metabolized to 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , an active metabolite , which is subsequently glucuronidated .
The enzyme ( s ) responsible for the formation of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine have not been identified .
Data from clinical trials indicate that a subset of the general population has a decreased ability to form 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , and are poor metabolizers of desloratadine .
In pharmacokinetic studies ( n = 3748 ) , approximately 6 % of subjects were poor metabolizers of desloratadine ( defined as a subject with an AUC ratio of 3 - hydroxydesloratadine to desloratadine less than 0 . 1 , or a subject with a desloratadine half - life exceeding 50 hours ) .
These pharmacokinetic studies included subjects between the ages of 2 and 70 years , including 977 subjects aged 2 to 5 years , 1575 subjects aged 6 to 11 years , and 1196 subjects aged 12 to 70 years .
There was no difference in the prevalence of poor metabolizers across age groups .
The frequency of poor metabolizers was higher in Blacks ( 17 % , n = 988 ) as compared to Caucasians ( 2 % , n = 1 , 462 ) and Hispanics ( 2 % , n = 1 , 063 ) .
The median exposure ( AUC ) to desloratadine in the poor metabolizers was approximately 6 - fold greater than in the subjects who are not poor metabolizers .
Subjects who are poor metabolizers of desloratadine cannot be prospectively identified and will be exposed to higher levels of desloratadine following dosing with the recommended dose of desloratadine .
In multidose clinical safety studies , where metabolizer status was identified , a total of 94 poor metabolizers and 123 normal metabolizers were enrolled and treated with CLARINEX Oral Solution for 15 – 35 days .
In these studies , no overall differences in safety were observed between poor metabolizers and normal metabolizers .
Although not seen in these studies , an increased risk of exposure - related adverse events in patients who are poor metabolizers cannot be ruled out .
Elimination The mean plasma elimination half - life of desloratadine was approximately 27 hours .
Cmax and AUC values increased in a dose proportional manner following single oral doses between 5 and 20 mg .
The degree of accumulation after 14 days of dosing was consistent with the half - life and dosing frequency .
A human mass balance study documented a recovery of approximately 87 % of the 14 C - desloratadine dose , which was equally distributed in urine and feces as metabolic products .
Analysis of plasma 3 - hydroxydesloratadine showed similar Tmax and half - life values compared to desloratadine .
Special Populations Geriatric Subjects : In older subjects ( ≥ 65 years old ; n = 17 ) following multiple - dose administration of CLARINEX Tablets , the mean Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 20 % greater than in younger subjects ( < 65 years old ) .
The oral total body clearance ( CL / F ) when normalized for body weight was similar between the two age groups .
The mean plasma elimination half - life of desloratadine was 33 . 7 hr in subjects ≥ 65 years old .
The pharmacokinetics for 3 - hydroxydesloratadine appeared unchanged in older versus younger subjects .
These age - related differences are unlikely to be clinically relevant and no dosage adjustment is recommended in elderly subjects .
Pediatric Subjects : In subjects 6 to 11 years old , a single dose of 5 mL of CLARINEX Oral Solution containing 2 . 5 mg of desloratadine , resulted in desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 - mg CLARINEX Tablet .
In subjects 2 to 5 years old , a single dose of 2 . 5 mL of CLARINEX Oral Solution containing 1 . 25 mg of desloratadine , resulted in desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 - mg CLARINEX Tablet .
However , the Cmax and AUC of the metabolite ( 3 - hydroxydesloratadine ) were 1 . 27 and 1 . 61 times higher for the 5 - mg dose of Oral Solution administered in adults compared to the Cmax and AUC obtained in children 2 to 11 years of age receiving 1 . 25 – 2 . 5 mg of CLARINEX Oral Solution .
A single dose of either 2 . 5 mL or 1 . 25 mL of CLARINEX Oral Solution containing 1 . 25 mg or 0 . 625 mg , respectively , of desloratadine was administered to subjects 6 to 11 months of age and 12 to 23 months of age .
The results of a population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that a dose of 1 mg for subjects aged 6 to 11 months and 1 . 25 mg for subjects 12 to 23 months of age is required to obtain desloratadine plasma concentrations similar to those achieved in adults administered a single 5 - mg dose of CLARINEX Oral Solution .
The CLARINEX RediTabs 2 . 5 - mg tablet has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Bioequivalence of the CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet and the original CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets was established in adults .
In conjunction with the dose - finding studies in pediatrics described , the pharmacokinetic data for CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets supports the use of the 2 . 5 - mg dose strength in pediatric patients 6 to 11 years of age .
Renally Impaired : Desloratadine pharmacokinetics following a single dose of 7 . 5 mg were characterized in patients with mild ( n = 7 ; creatinine clearance 51 – 69 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , moderate ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 34 – 43 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , and severe ( n = 6 ; creatinine clearance 5 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment or hemodialysis dependent ( n = 6 ) patients .
In patients with mild and moderate renal impairment , median Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 2 - and 1 . 9 - fold , respectively , relative to subjects with normal renal function .
In patients with severe renal impairment or who were hemodialysis dependent , Cmax and AUC values increased by approximately 1 . 7 - and 2 . 5 - fold , respectively .
Minimal changes in 3 - hydroxydesloratadine concentrations were observed .
Desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were poorly removed by hemodialysis .
Plasma protein binding of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine was unaltered by renal impairment .
Dosage adjustment for patients with renal impairment is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatically Impaired : Desloratadine pharmacokinetics were characterized following a single oral dose in patients with mild ( n = 4 ) , moderate ( n = 4 ) , and severe ( n = 4 ) hepatic impairment as defined by the Child - Pugh classification of hepatic function and 8 subjects with normal hepatic function .
Patients with hepatic impairment , regardless of severity , had approximately a 2 . 4 - fold increase in AUC as compared with normal subjects .
The apparent oral clearance of desloratadine in patients with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment was 37 % , 36 % , and 28 % of that in normal subjects , respectively .
An increase in the mean elimination half - life of desloratadine in patients with hepatic impairment was observed .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine , the mean Cmax and AUC values for patients with hepatic impairment were not statistically significantly different from subjects with normal hepatic function .
Dosage adjustment for patients with hepatic impairment is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Gender : Female subjects treated for 14 days with CLARINEX Tablets had 10 % and 3 % higher desloratadine Cmax and AUC values , respectively , compared with male subjects .
The 3 - hydroxydesloratadine Cmax and AUC values were also increased by 45 % and 48 % , respectively , in females compared with males .
However , these apparent differences are not likely to be clinically relevant and therefore no dosage adjustment is recommended .
Race : Following 14 days of treatment with CLARINEX Tablets , the Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 18 % and 32 % higher , respectively , in Blacks compared with Caucasians .
For 3 - hydroxydesloratadine there was a corresponding 10 % reduction in Cmax and AUC values in Blacks compared to Caucasians .
These differences are not likely to be clinically relevant and therefore no dose adjustment is recommended .
Drug Interactions : In two controlled crossover clinical pharmacology studies in healthy male ( n = 12 in each study ) and female ( n = 12 in each study ) volunteers , desloratadine 7 . 5 mg ( 1 . 5 times the daily dose ) once daily was coadministered with erythromycin 500 mg every 8 hours or ketoconazole 200 mg every 12 hours for 10 days .
In three separate controlled , parallel group clinical pharmacology studies , desloratadine at the clinical dose of 5 mg has been coadministered with azithromycin 500 mg followed by 250 mg once daily for 4 days ( n = 18 ) or with fluoxetine 20 mg once daily for 7 days after a 23 - day pretreatment period with fluoxetine ( n = 18 ) or with cimetidine 600 mg every 12 hours for 14 days ( n = 18 ) under steady - state conditions to normal healthy male and female volunteers .
Although increased plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC0 - 24 hrs ) of desloratadine and 3 - hydroxydesloratadine were observed ( see Table 2 ) , there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine , as assessed by electrocardiographic parameters ( including the corrected QT interval ) , clinical laboratory tests , vital signs , and adverse events .
Table 2 : Changes in Desloratadine and 3 - Hydroxydesloratadine Pharmacokinetics in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers Desloratadine 3 - Hydroxydesloratadine Cmax AUC0 - 24 hrs Cmax AUC0 - 24 hrs Erythromycin ( 500 mg Q8h ) + 24 % + 14 % + 43 % + 40 % Ketoconazole ( 200 mg Q12h ) + 45 % + 39 % + 43 % + 72 % Azithromycin ( 500 mg day 1 , 250 mg QD x 4 days ) + 15 % + 5 % + 15 % + 4 % Fluoxetine ( 20 mg QD ) + 15 % + 0 % + 17 % + 13 % Cimetidine ( 600 mg Q12h ) + 12 % + 19 % - 11 % - 3 % 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity Studies The carcinogenic potential of desloratadine was assessed using a loratadine study in rats and a desloratadine study in mice .
In a 2 - year study in rats , loratadine was administered in the diet at doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately 45 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
A significantly higher incidence of hepatocellular tumors ( combined adenomas and carcinomas ) was observed in males given 10 mg / kg / day of loratadine ( approximately 10 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) and in males and females given 25 mg / kg / day of loratadine .
The clinical significance of these findings during long - term use of desloratadine is not known .
In a 2 - year dietary study in mice , males and females given up to 16 mg / kg / day and 32 mg / kg / day desloratadine , respectively ( approximately 30 and 70 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD , respectively ) , did not show significant increases in the incidence of any tumors .
Genotoxicity Studies In genotoxicity studies with desloratadine , there was no evidence of genotoxic potential in a reverse mutation assay ( Salmonella / E .
coli mammalian microsome bacterial mutagenicity assay ) or in 2 assays for chromosomal aberrations ( human peripheral blood lymphocyte clastogenicity assay and mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Impairment of Fertility In a female fertility study , desloratadine was given to female rats orally 14 days prior to and throughout mating until Gestation Day 7 at doses of 6 , 12 and 24 mg / kg / day .
An increase in preimplantation loss and a decrease in number of implantations and fetuses noted at 24 mg / kg ( approximately 200 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) was likely due to maternal toxicities including reduced body weight gain and food consumption .
In a male fertility study in rats , desloratadine was given orally to male rats for 70 days prior to mating and throughout the mating period ( total dosing period 106 - 108 days ) at doses of 3 , 12 and 40 mg / kg / day .
Reduced body weight gain , food consumption , and absolute organ weights of testes , epididymis , and cauda epididymis were noted at 40 mg / kg / day .
A male - specific decrease in fertility , demonstrated by reduced female conception rates , decreased sperm numbers and motility , and histopathologic changes in testes and epididymis , occurred at a dose of 12 mg / kg or greater ( approximately 65 times or greater than the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
Desloratadine had no effect on male fertility in rats at 3 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 times the summed AUC - based exposure of desloratadine and its metabolite at the RHD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis The clinical efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets were evaluated in over 2300 patients 12 to 75 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
A total of 1838 patients received 2 . 5 to 20 mg / day of CLARINEX in 4 double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials of 2 to 4 weeks ' duration conducted in the United States .
The results of these studies demonstrated the efficacy and safety of CLARINEX 5 mg in the treatment of adult and adolescent patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
In a dose - ranging trial , CLARINEX 2 . 5 to 20 mg / day was studied .
Doses of 5 , 7 . 5 , 10 , and 20 mg / day were superior to placebo ; and no additional benefit was seen at doses above 5 . 0 mg .
In the same study , an increase in the incidence of somnolence was observed at doses of 10 mg / day and 20 mg / day ( 5 . 2 % and 7 . 6 % , respectively ) , compared to placebo ( 2 . 3 % ) .
In two 4 - week studies of 924 patients ( aged 15 to 75 years ) with seasonal allergic rhinitis and concomitant asthma , CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily improved rhinitis symptoms , with no decrease in pulmonary function .
This supports the safety of administering CLARINEX Tablets to adult patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis with mild to moderate asthma .
CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily significantly reduced the Total Symptom Score ( the sum of individual scores of nasal and non - nasal symptoms ) in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis .
See Table 3 .
Table 3 : TOTAL SYMPTOM SCORE ( TSS ) Changes in a 2 - Week Clinical Trial in Patients with Seasonal Allergic RhinitisTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline [ 1 ] ( SEM ) Change from Baseline [ 2 ] ( SEM ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) SEM = Standard Error of the Mean CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 171 ) 14 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) - 4 . 3 ( 0 . 3 ) P < 0 . 01 Placebo ( 173 ) 13 . 7 ( 0 . 3 ) - 2 . 5 ( 0 . 3 ) [ 1 ] At baseline , a total nasal symptom score ( sum of 4 individual symptoms ) of at least 6 and a total non - nasal symptom score ( sum of 4 individual symptoms ) of at least 5 ( each symptom scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom and 3 = severe symptoms ) was required for trial eligibility .
TSS ranges from 0 = no symptoms to 24 = maximal symptoms .
[ 2 ] Mean reduction in TSS averaged over the 2 - week treatment period .
There were no significant differences in the effectiveness of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg across subgroups of patients defined by gender , age , or race .
14 . 2 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis The clinical efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg were evaluated in over 1300 patients 12 to 80 years of age with perennial allergic rhinitis .
A total of 685 patients received 5 mg / day of CLARINEX in two double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled clinical trials of 4 weeks ' duration conducted in the United States and internationally .
In one of these studies CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily was shown to significantly reduce the Total Symptom Score in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : TOTAL SYMPTOM SCORE ( TSS ) Changes in a 4 - Week Clinical Trial in Patients with Perennial Allergic RhinitisTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline [ 1 ] ( SEM ) Change from Baseline [ 2 ] ( SEM ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) SEM = Standard Error of the Mean CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 337 ) 12 . 37 ( 0 . 18 ) - 4 . 06 ( 0 . 21 ) P = 0 . 01 Placebo ( 337 ) 12 . 30 ( 0 . 18 ) - 3 . 27 ( 0 . 21 ) [ 1 ] At baseline , average of total symptom score ( sum of 5 individual nasal symptoms and 3 non - nasal symptoms , each symptom scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom and 3 = severe symptoms ) of at least 10 was required for trial eligibility .
TSS ranges from 0 = no symptoms to 24 = maximal symptoms .
[ 2 ] Mean reduction in TSS averaged over the 4 - week treatment period .
14 . 3 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria The efficacy and safety of CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg once daily was studied in 416 chronic idiopathic urticaria patients 12 to 84 years of age , of whom 211 received CLARINEX .
In two double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized clinical trials of six weeks duration , at the pre - specified one - week primary time point evaluation , CLARINEX Tablets significantly reduced the severity of pruritus when compared to placebo ( Table 5 ) .
Secondary endpoints were also evaluated , and during the first week of therapy CLARINEX Tablets 5 mg reduced the secondary endpoints , " Number of Hives " and the " Size of the Largest Hive , " when compared to placebo .
Table 5 : PRURITUS SYMPTOM SCORE Changes in the First Week of a Clinical Trial in Patients with Chronic Idiopathic UrticariaTreatment Group ( n ) Mean Baseline ( SEM ) Change from Baseline [ 1 ] ( SEM ) Placebo Comparison ( P - value ) Pruritus scored 0 to 3 where 0 = no symptom to 3 = maximal symptom SEM = Standard Error of the Mean CLARINEX 5 . 0 mg ( 115 ) 2 . 19 ( 0 . 04 ) - 1 . 05 ( 0 . 07 ) P < 0 . 01 Placebo ( 110 ) 2 . 21 ( 0 . 04 ) - 0 . 52 ( 0 . 07 ) [ 1 ] Mean reduction in pruritus averaged over the first week of treatment .
The clinical safety of CLARINEX Oral Solution was documented in three , 15 - day , double - blind , placebo - controlled safety studies in pediatric subjects with a documented history of allergic rhinitis , chronic idiopathic urticaria , or subjects who were candidates for antihistamine therapy .
In the first study , 2 . 5 mg of CLARINEX Oral Solution was administered to 60 pediatric subjects 6 to 11 years of age .
The second study evaluated 1 . 25 mg of CLARINEX Oral Solution administered to 55 pediatric subjects 2 to 5 years of age .
In the third study , 1 . 25 mg of CLARINEX Oral Solution was administered to 65 pediatric subjects 12 to 23 months of age and 1 . 0 mg of CLARINEX Oral Solution was administered to 66 pediatric subjects 6 to 11 months of age .
The results of these studies demonstrated the safety of CLARINEX Oral Solution in pediatric subjects 6 months to 11 years of age .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 0765 NDC : 50090 - 0765 - 0 30 TABLET , FILM COATED in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
17 . 1 Information for Patients • Patients should be instructed to use CLARINEX as directed .
• As there are no food effects on bioavailability , patients can be instructed that CLARINEX Tablets , Oral Solution , or RediTabs Tablets may be taken without regard to meals .
• Patients should be advised not to increase the dose or dosing frequency as studies have not demonstrated increased effectiveness at higher doses and somnolence may occur .
• Phenylketonurics : CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets contain phenylalanine .
CLARINEX Tablets are Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html Copyright © 2004 - 2021 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
uspi - mk4117 - mtl - 2101r013 PATIENT INFORMATION CLARINEX ® ( CLA - RI - NEX ) ( desloratadine ) Tablets , RediTabs ® , and Oral Solution Read the Patient Information that comes with CLARINEX ® before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet is a summary of the information for patients .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you additional information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is CLARINEX ?
CLARINEX is a prescription medicine that contains the medicine desloratadine ( an antihistamine ) .
CLARINEX is used to help control the symptoms of : • seasonal allergic rhinitis ( sneezing , stuffy nose , runny nose and itching of the nose ) in people 2 years of age and older .
• perennial allergic rhinitis ( sneezing , stuffy nose , runny nose and itching of the nose ) in people 6 months of age and older .
• chronic idiopathic urticaria ( long - term itching ) and to reduce the number and size of hives in people 6 months of age and older .
CLARINEX is not for children younger than 6 months of age .
Who should not take CLARINEX ?
Do not take CLARINEX if you : • are allergic to desloratadine or any of the ingredients in CLARINEX Tablets , CLARINEX RediTabs ® or CLARINEX Oral Solution .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients for the CLARINEX Tablets .
• are allergic to loratadine ( Alavert , Claritin ) .
Talk to your doctor before taking this medicine if you have any questions about whether or not to take this medicine .
What should I tell my doctor before taking CLARINEX ?
Before you take CLARINEX , tell your doctor if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• have any other medical conditions .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if CLARINEX will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
CLARINEX can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take CLARINEX .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
CLARINEX may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how CLARINEX works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • ketoconazole ( Nizoral ) • erythromycin ( Ery - tab , Eryc , PCE ) • azithromycin ( Zithromax , Zmax ) • antihistamines • fluoxetine ( Prozac ) • cimetidine ( Tagamet ) Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take CLARINEX ?
• Take CLARINEX exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Do not change your dose of CLARINEX or take more often than prescribed .
• CLARINEX can be taken with or without food .
• Place CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet on your tongue and allow it to dissolve before swallowing .
CLARINEX RediTabs can be taken with or without water .
Take your CLARINEX RediTabs Tablet right away after opening the blister .
• Take CLARINEX Oral Solution with a measuring dropper or oral syringe that can measure 2 mL or 2 . 5 mL .
Ask your pharmacist for a dropper or syringe if you do not have one .
• If you take too much CLARINEX , call your doctor or get medical attention right away .
What are the possible side effects of CLARINEX Tablets ?
CLARINEX may cause serious side effects , including : • Allergic reactions .
Stop taking CLARINEX and call your doctor right away or get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • rash • itching • hives • swelling of your lips , tongue , face , and throat • shortness of breath or trouble breathing The most common side effects of CLARINEX in adults and children 12 years of age and older with allergic rhinitis include : • sore throat • dry mouth • muscle pain • tiredness • sleepiness • menstrual pain Increased sleepiness or tiredness can happen if you take more CLARINEX than your doctor prescribed to you .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of CLARINEX .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CLARINEX ?
• Store CLARINEX Tablets between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• CLARINEX Tablets are sensitive to heat .
Do not store above 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Protect CLARINEX Tablets from moisture .
Keep CLARINEX Tablets , RediTabs Tablets , and Oral Solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about CLARINEX Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use CLARINEX for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give CLARINEX to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about CLARINEX .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about CLARINEX that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . CLARINEX . com What are the ingredients in CLARINEX ?
Active ingredient : desloratadine Patients with Phenylketonuria : CLARINEX RediTabs Tablets contain phenylalanine .
Inactive ingredients in CLARINEX Tablets : dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , corn starch NF , talc USP , carnauba wax NF , white wax NF , coating material consisting of lactose monohydrate , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , and FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake .
CLARINEX Tablets are Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html The trademarks depicted herein are owned by their respective companies .
Copyright © 2004 - 2021 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Revised : 01 / 2021 usppi - mk4117 - mtl - 2101r009 Desloratadine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
