WARNING : RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS • Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have been observed in some patients during ALDURAZYME ® infusions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Appropriate medical support should be readily available when ALDURAZYME is administered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute respiratory disease may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to infusion reactions and require additional monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF ANAPHYLAXIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have been observed in some patients during ALDURAZYME infusions .
( 5 . 1 ) • Appropriate medical support should be readily available when ALDURAZYME is administered .
( 5 . 1 ) • Patients with compromised respiratory function or acute respiratory disease may be at risk of serious acute exacerbation of their respiratory compromise due to infusion reactions and require additional monitoring .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALDURAZYME ® is indicated for adult and pediatric patients with Hurler and Hurler - Scheie forms of Mucopolysaccharidosis I ( MPS I ) and for patients with the Scheie form who have moderate to severe symptoms .
Limitations of Use : • The risks and benefits of treating mildly affected patients with the Scheie form have not been established .
• ALDURAZYME has not been evaluated for effects on the central nervous system manifestations of the disorder .
ALDURAZYME is a hydrolytic lysosomal glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) - specific enzyme indicated for adult and pediatric patients with Hurler and Hurler - Scheie forms of Mucopolysaccharidosis I ( MPS I ) and for patients with the Scheie form who have moderate to severe symptoms .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • The risks and benefits of treating mildly affected patients with the Scheie form have not been established .
( 1 ) • ALDURAZYME has not been evaluated for effects on the central nervous system manifestations of the disorder .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion ( 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dosage regimen of ALDURAZYME is 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight administered once weekly as an intravenous infusion .
Pretreatment is recommended 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion and may include antihistamines , antipyretics , or both [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Each vial of ALDURAZYME provides 2 . 9 milligrams ( mg ) of laronidase in 5 . 0 milliliters ( mL ) of solution and is intended for single dose only .
Do not use the vial more than one time .
The concentrated solution for infusion must be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final volume of 100 mL or 250 mL , using aseptic techniques .
The final volume of the infusion is determined by the patient ’ s body weight .
Patients with a body weight of 20 kg or less should receive a total volume of 100 mL .
Patients with a body weight greater than 20 kg should receive a total volume of 250 mL [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
For patients with underlying cardiac or respiratory compromise and weighing up to 30 kg , physicians may consider diluting ALDURAZYME in a volume of 100 mL and administering at a decreased infusion rate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Instructions for Use Prepare and use ALDURAZYME according to the following steps .
Use aseptic techniques .
Prepare ALDURAZYME using low - protein - binding containers and administer with a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with an in - line , low - protein - binding 0 . 2 micron filter .
There is no information on the compatibility of diluted ALDURAZYME with glass containers .
• Determine the number of vials to be diluted based on the patient ' s weight and the recommended dose of 0 . 58 mg / kg , using the following equation : Patient ' s weight ( kg ) × 1 mL / kg of ALDURAZYME = Total number of mL of ALDURAZYME Total number of mL of ALDURAZYME ¸ 5 mL per Vial = Total number of Vials .
• Round up to the next whole vial .
Remove the required number of vials from the refrigerator to allow them to reach room temperature .
Do not heat or microwave vials .
• Before withdrawing the ALDURAZYME from the vial , visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration .
The ALDURAZYME solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to pale yellow .
Some translucency may be present in the solution .
Do not use if the solution is discolored or if there is particulate matter in the solution .
• Withdraw and discard a volume of the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP from the infusion bag , equal to the volume of ALDURAZYME concentrate to be added .
• Slowly withdraw the calculated volume of ALDURAZYME from the appropriate number of vials using caution to avoid excessive agitation .
Do not use a filter needle , as this may cause agitation .
Agitation may denature ALDURAZYME , rendering it biologically inactive .
• Slowly add the ALDURAZYME solution to the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP using care to avoid agitation of the solutions .
Do not use a filter needle .
• Gently rotate the infusion bag to ensure proper distribution of ALDURAZYME .
Do not shake the solution .
• The entire infusion volume ( 100 mL for patients weighing 20 kg or less and 250 mL for patients weighing greater than 20 kg ) should be delivered over approximately 3 to 4 hours .
The initial infusion rate of 10 µg / kg / hr may be incrementally increased every 15 minutes during the first hour , as tolerated , until a maximum infusion rate of 200 µg / kg / hr is reached .
The maximum rate is then maintained for the remainder of the infusion ( 2 - 3 hours ) , as outlined in Tables 1 and 2 .
• Administer the diluted ALDURAZYME solution to patients using a low - protein - binding infusion set equipped with a low - protein - binding 0 . 2 µm in - line filter .
Table 1 : Incremental Rates for 100 mL ALDURAZYME ® Infusion ( For use with Patients Weighing 20 kg or Less ) Infusion Rate Criteria for Increasing Infusion Rate 2 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 10 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 4 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 20 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 8 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 50 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 16 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 100 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 32 mL / hour x ~ 3 hours ( 200 mcg / kg / hr ) For the remainder of the infusion .
Table 2 : Incremental Rates for 250 mL ALDURAZYME ® Infusion ( For use with Patients Weighing Greater than 20 kg ) Infusion Rate Criteria for Increasing Infusion Rate 5 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 10 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 10 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 20 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 20 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 50 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 40 mL / hour x 15 minutes ( 100 mcg / kg / hr ) Obtain vital signs , if stable then increase the rate to ... 80 mL / hour x approximately 3 hours ( 200 mcg / kg / hr ) For the remainder of the infusion .
ALDURAZYME does not contain any preservatives ; therefore , after dilution with saline , the infusion bags should be used immediately .
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted solution should be stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 36 hours .
Other than during infusion , room temperature storage of diluted solution is not recommended .
Any unused product or waste material should be discarded and disposed of in accordance with local requirements .
ALDURAZYME must not be administered with other medicinal products in the same infusion .
The compatibility of ALDURAZYME in solution with other products has not been evaluated .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 2 . 9 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 58 mg / mL ) of laronidase as a colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution in a single - dose vial Injection : 2 . 9 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 58 mg / mL ) of laronidase in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions : Life - threatening anaphylactic reactions have been observed in some patients during ALDURAZYME infusion and up to 3 hours after infusion .
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ALDURAZYME is administered .
If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate treatment , which may include ventilatory support , treatment with inhaled beta - adrenergic agonists , epinephrine , and IV corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk of Acute Respiratory Complications : Patients with acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of ALDURAZYME infusion may be at greater risk for infusion reactions .
Consider delaying ALDURAZYME infusion .
Sleep apnea is common in MPS I patients .
Evaluation of airway patency should be considered prior to initiation of treatment with ALDURAZYME .
Appropriate respiratory support should be available during infusion .
( 5 . 2 ) • Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure : Caution should be exercised when administering ALDURAZYME to patients susceptible to fluid overload .
Consider a decreased total infusion volume and infusion rate when administering ALDURAZYME to these patients .
Appropriate medical monitoring and support measures should be available during infusion .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Infusion Reactions : Pretreatment is recommended prior to the infusion to reduce the risk of infusion reactions and may include antihistamines , antipyretics , or both .
If infusion reactions occur , decreasing the infusion rate , temporarily stopping the infusion , or administering additional antipyretics and / or antihistamines may ameliorate the symptoms .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylaxis and serious hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in patients during or up to 3 hours after ALDURAZYME infusions .
Some of these reactions were life - threatening and included respiratory failure , respiratory distress , stridor , tachypnea , bronchospasm , obstructive airways disorder , hypoxia , hypotension , bradycardia , and urticaria .
If anaphylactic or other serious hypersensitivity reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion of ALDURAZYME and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Caution should be exercised if epinephrine is being considered for use in patients with MPS I due to the increased prevalence of coronary artery disease in these patients .
Interventions have included resuscitation , mechanical ventilatory support , emergency tracheotomy , hospitalization , and treatment with inhaled beta - adrenergic agonists , epinephrine , and intravenous corticosteroids [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In clinical studies and postmarketing safety experience with ALDURAZYME , approximately 1 % of patients experienced severe or serious hypersensitivity reactions .
In patients with MPS I , pre - existing upper airway obstruction may have contributed to the severity of some reactions .
Due to the potential for severe hypersensitivity reactions , appropriate medical support should be readily available when ALDURAZYME is administered .
Because of the potential for recurrent reactions , some patients who experience initial severe reactions may require prolonged observation .
The risks and benefits of re - administering ALDURAZYME following an anaphylactic or severe hypersensitivity reaction should be considered .
Extreme care should be exercised , with appropriate resuscitation measures available , if the decision is made to re - administer the product .
5 . 2 Acute Respiratory Complications Associated with Administration Patients with an acute febrile or respiratory illness at the time of ALDURAZYME infusion may be at greater risk for infusion reactions .
Careful consideration should be given to the patient ’ s clinical status prior to administration of ALDURAZYME and consider delaying ALDURAZYME infusion .
One patient with acute bronchitis and hypoxia experienced increased tachypnea during the first ALDURAZYME infusion that resolved without intervention .
The patient ’ s respiratory symptoms returned within 30 minutes of completing the infusion and responded to bronchodilator therapy .
Approximately 6 hours after the infusion , the patient experienced coughing , then respiratory arrest , and died .
Sleep apnea is common in MPS I patients .
Evaluation of airway patency should be considered prior to initiation of treatment with ALDURAZYME .
Patients using supplemental oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure ( CPAP ) during sleep should have these treatments readily available during infusion in the event of an infusion reaction , or extreme drowsiness / sleep induced by antihistamine use .
5 . 3 Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure Caution should be exercised when administering ALDURAZYME to patients susceptible to fluid overload , or patients with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac and / or respiratory function for whom fluid restriction is indicated .
These patients may be at risk of serious exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory status during infusions .
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available during ALDURAZYME infusion , and some patients may require prolonged observation times that should be based on the individual needs of the patient [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Infusion Reactions Because of the potential for infusion reactions , patients should receive antipyretics and / or antihistamines prior to infusion .
If an infusion reaction occurs , regardless of pretreatment , decreasing the infusion rate , temporarily stopping the infusion , or administering additional antipyretics and / or antihistamines may ameliorate the symptoms [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious and or clinically significant adverse reactions described elsewhere in labeling include : • Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute Respiratory Complications Associated with Administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Risk of Acute Cardiorespiratory Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Infusion Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in patients : • 6 months of age and older are : infusion reactions ( pyrexia , chills , blood pressure increased , tachycardia , and oxygen saturation decreased ) .
( 6 . 1 ) • 6 years and older are : rash , upper respiratory tract infection , injection site reaction , hyperreflexia , paresthesia , flushing , and poor venous access .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact : Genzyme at 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or go to www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The most serious adverse reactions reported with ALDURAZYME treatment during clinical trials were anaphylactic and hypersensitivity reactions .
Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were considered disease - related and unrelated to study drug .
The most common adverse reactions were infusion reactions .
The frequency of infusion reactions decreased over time with continued use of ALDURAZYME , and the majority of reactions were classified as being mild to moderate in severity .
Most infusion reactions requiring intervention were ameliorated with slowing of the infusion rate , temporarily stopping the infusion , with or without administering additional treatments including antihistamines , antipyretics , or both .
Clinical Trials in Patients 6 Years and Older A 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical study ( Study 1 ) of ALDURAZYME was conducted in 45 patients with MPS I , ages 6 to 43 years old , gender evenly distributed ( N = 23 females and 22 males ) .
Of these 45 patients , 1 was clinically assessed as having Hurler form , 37 Hurler - Scheie , and 7 Scheie .
Patients were randomized to receive either 0 . 58 mg / kg intravenously of ALDURAZYME per week for 26 weeks or placebo .
All patients were treated with antipyretics and antihistamines prior to the infusions .
Infusion reactions were reported in 32 % ( 7 of 22 ) of ALDURAZYME - treated patients .
The most commonly reported infusion reactions regardless of treatment group were flushing , pyrexia , headache , and rash .
Flushing occurred in 5 patients ( 23 % ) receiving ALDURAZYME ; the other reactions were less frequent .
Less common infusion reactions included angioedema ( including face edema ) , hypotension , paresthesia , feeling hot , hyperhidrosis , tachycardia , vomiting , back pain , and cough .
Other reported adverse reactions included bronchospasm , dyspnea , urticaria and pruritus .
Table 3 enumerates adverse reactions and selected laboratory abnormalities that occurred during the placebo - controlled study ( Study 1 ) that were reported in at least 2 patients more in the ALDURAZYME group than in the placebo group .
Table 3 : Summary of Adverse Reactions that Occurred in 2 Patients More in the ALDURAZYME ® Group than in the Placebo Group in the 26 - Week Placebo - controlled Study ( Study 1 ) MedDRA System Organ Class ( SOC ) MedDRA Preferred Term ( N = 22 ) ALDURAZYME n ( % ) ( N = 23 ) Placebo n ( % ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Thrombocytopenia 2 ( 9 ) 0 Eye disorders Corneal opacity 2 ( 9 ) 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Chest pain 2 ( 9 ) 0 Face edema 2 ( 9 ) 0 Gravitational edema 2 ( 9 ) 0 Injection site pain 2 ( 9 ) 0 Injection site reaction 4 ( 18 ) 2 ( 9 ) Hepatobiliary disorders Hyperbilirubinemia 2 ( 9 ) 0 Infections and infestations Abscess 2 ( 9 ) 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 7 ( 32 ) 4 ( 17 ) Nervous system disorders Hyperreflexia 3 ( 14 ) 0 Paresthesia 3 ( 14 ) 1 ( 4 ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 8 ( 36 ) 5 ( 22 ) Vascular disorders Hypotension 2 ( 9 ) 0 Poor venous access 3 ( 14 ) 0 All 45 patients who completed the placebo - controlled study ( Study 1 ) continued treatment in an open - label , uncontrolled extension study ( Study 2 ) .
All patients received ALDURAZYME 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly for up to 182 weeks .
The most serious adverse reactions reported with ALDURAZYME infusions in Study 2 were anaphylactic and hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions requiring intervention were infusion reactions reported in 49 % ( 22 of 45 ) of patients treated with ALDURAZYME .
The most commonly reported infusion reactions included rash ( 13 % ) , flushing ( 11 % ) , pyrexia ( 11 % ) , headache ( 9 % ) , abdominal pain or discomfort ( 9 % ) , and injection site reaction ( 9 % ) .
Less commonly reported infusion reactions included nausea ( 7 % ) , diarrhea ( 7 % ) , feeling hot or cold ( 7 % ) , vomiting ( 4 % ) , pruritus ( 4 % ) , arthralgia ( 4 % ) , and urticaria ( 4 % ) .
Additional common adverse reactions included back pain and musculoskeletal pain .
Clinical Trials in Patients 6 Years and Younger Study 3 was a 52 - week , open - label , uncontrolled study of 20 MPS I patients , ages 6 months to 5 years old ( at enrollment ) .
Sixteen patients were clinically assessed as having the Hurler form , and 4 had the Hurler - Scheie form .
All 20 patients received ALDURAZYME at 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly for 26 weeks and up to 52 weeks .
All patients were treated with antipyretics and antihistamines prior to the infusions .
The most commonly reported serious adverse events ( regardless of relationship ) reported with ALDURAZYME infusions in Study 3 were otitis media ( 20 % ) , and central venous catheterization required for ALDURAZYME infusion ( 15 % ) .
The nature and severity of infusion reactions were similar between the older and less severely affected patients in Studies 1 and 2 , and the younger , more severely affected patients in Study 3 .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in Study 3 were infusion reactions reported in 35 % ( 7 of 20 ) of patients and included pyrexia ( 30 % ) , chills ( 20 % ) , blood pressure increased ( 10 % ) , tachycardia ( 10 % ) , and oxygen saturation decreased ( 10 % ) .
Other commonly reported infusion reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of patients were pallor , tremor , respiratory distress , wheezing , crepitations ( pulmonary ) , pruritus , and rash .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all the therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other laronidase products may be misleading .
In clinical trials , 99 of 102 patients ( 97 % ) treated with ALDURAZYME were positive for IgG antibodies to ALDURAZYME .
No correlation was demonstrated between the presence of IgG anti - ALDURAZYME antibodies and therapeutic response ( 6 MWT and FVC ) or the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions .
Potential for antibody neutralization of cellular uptake has not been assessed .
No consistent association was demonstrated between the presence of antibodies that neutralize enzymatic activity and therapeutic response .
The data reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to ALDURAZYME using a specific enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and confirmed by radio - immunoprecipitation ( RIP ) .
ALDURAZYME IgG antibodies were reported as titers .
Drug specific antibody was detected in 42 of the 45 patients ( 93 . 3 % ) treated in Study 1 and Study 2 .
The mean time to seroconversion was 51 days in patients 6 years and older .
In Study 3 , all patients ( 100 % ) 5 years old or younger developed IgG antibodies against ALDURAZYME with a mean time to seroconversion of 26 days [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Nine patients in Study 1 and Study 2 , collectively , who experienced severe infusion reactions were tested for ALDURAZYME - specific IgE antibodies and complement activation .
IgE testing was performed by ELISA , and complement activation was measured by the Quidel Enzyme Immunoassay .
One of the nine patients had an anaphylactic reaction consisting of urticaria and airway obstruction and tested positive for both ALDURAZYME - specific IgE binding antibodies and complement activation .
None of the patients in the open - label clinical study of patients 5 years old or younger ( Study 3 ) tested positive for IgE .
Other hypersensitivity reactions were also seen in patients receiving ALDURAZYME [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
In the postmarketing setting , approximately 1 % of patients experienced severe or serious infusion hypersensitivity reactions and tested positive for IgE .
Of these IgE - positive patients , some have discontinued treatment , but some have been successfully re - challenged .
The clinical significance of IgE antibodies has not been established .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ALDURAZYME .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In postmarketing experience with ALDURAZYME , severe and serious infusion reactions have been reported , some of which were life - threatening , including anaphylactic shock [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] and laryngeal edema .
Adverse reactions resulting in death reported in the postmarketing setting with ALDURAZYME treatment included cardiorespiratory arrest , respiratory failure , cardiac failure , and pneumonia .
These events have been reported in MPS I patients with significant underlying disease .
Additional adverse reactions included fatigue , edema peripheral , erythema and cyanosis .
There have been a small number of reports of extravasation in patients treated with ALDURAZYME .
There have been no reports of tissue necrosis associated with extravasation .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry An MPS I Registry has been established and pregnant women with MPS I should be encouraged to enroll in the pregnancy sub - registry .
For more information , visit www . registrynxt . com or call 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 ext . 15500 .
Risk Summary Available data from published case reports and postmarketing experience with ALDURAZYME use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
No evidence of fetal harm has been observed in rats when laronidase was administered during organogenesis at doses up to 6 . 2 times the recommended human dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and embryo / fetal risk Pregnancy can exacerbate preexisting clinical manifestations of MPS and lead to adverse pregnancy outcomes for both mother and fetus .
Data Animal Data When laronidase was administered to pregnant female rats during organogenesis ( gestation days [ GD ] 7 - 17 ) at doses of 0 , 0 . 036 , 0 . 36 or 3 . 6 mg / kg / day intravenously ( equivalent to 7 . 3 , 73 . 1 , 730 . 8 units / kg / day ) decreased maternal body weight gains and food consumption were observed with no corresponding effects on reproductive and litter parameters including number and distribution of corpora lutea , implantations and early and late resorptions at doses up to 3 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 6 . 2 times the recommended human dose of 0 . 58 mg / kg on a mg / kg basis ) .
Laronidase has not been evaluated for effects on embryo - fetal development in any other species .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of laronidase in human milk or the effects on milk production .
No adverse effects have been reported in breastfed infants in a few postmarketing cases of laronidase use in lactating women .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ALDURAZYME and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ALDURAZYME or from the underlying maternal condition .
Lactating women with MPS I are encouraged to enroll in the MPS I Registry .
For more information , visit www . registrynxt . com or call 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 ext . 15500 .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ALDURAZYME was assessed in a 52 - week , open - label , uncontrolled clinical study in 20 patients with MPS I , ages 6 months to 5 years old , and was found to be similar to the safety and effectiveness of ALDURAZYME in pediatric patients 6 to 18 years , and adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ALDURAZYME did not include patients aged 65 and over .
It is not known whether they respond differently from younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdose with ALDURAZYME .
In clinical studies , a small number of patients received doses up to 1 . 2 mg / kg body weight once weekly or 1 . 8 mg / kg body weight every other week .
Adverse events reported in patients receiving 1 . 2 mg / kg body weight once weekly or 1 . 8 mg / kg body weight every other week were similar to the adverse events reported by patients treated with 0 . 58 mg / kg body weight once weekly .
11 DESCRIPTION ALDURAZYME ( laronidase ) is a polymorphic variant of the human enzyme α ‑ L ‑ iduronidase that is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line .
α - L - iduronidase ( glycosaminoglycan α - L - iduronohydrolase , EC 3 . 2 . 1 . 76 ) is a lysosomal hydrolase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of terminal α - L - iduronic acid residues of dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate .
Laronidase is a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of approximately 83 kD .
The predicted amino acid sequence of the recombinant form , as well as the nucleotide sequence that encodes it , are identical to a polymorphic form of human α - L - iduronidase .
The recombinant protein is comprised of 628 amino acids after cleavage of the N - terminus and contains 6 N - linked oligosaccharide modification sites .
Two oligosaccharide chains terminate in mannose - 6 - phosphate sugars .
ALDURAZYME has a specific activity of approximately 172 U / mg .
ALDURAZYME , for intravenous infusion , is supplied as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution that must be diluted prior to administration in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The solution in each vial contains a nominal laronidase concentration of 0 . 58 mg / mL and a pH of approximately 5 . 5 .
The extractable volume of 5 mL from each vial provides 2 . 9 mg laronidase , 43 . 9 mg sodium chloride , 63 . 5 mg sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , 10 . 7 mg sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , and 0 . 05 mg polysorbate 80 .
ALDURAZYME does not contain preservatives ; vials are for single dose only .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mucopolysaccharide storage disorders are caused by the deficiency of specific lysosomal enzymes required for the catabolism of glycosaminoglycans ( GAG ) .
Mucopolysaccharidosis I ( MPS I ) is characterized by the deficiency of α - L - iduronidase , a lysosomal hydrolase which catalyzes the hydrolysis of terminal α - L - iduronic acid residues of dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate .
Reduced or absent α - L - iduronidase activity results in the accumulation of the GAG substrates , dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate , throughout the body and leads to widespread cellular , tissue , and organ dysfunction .
The rationale of ALDURAZYME therapy in MPS I is to provide exogenous enzyme for uptake into lysosomes and increase the catabolism of GAG .
ALDURAZYME uptake by cells into lysosomes is most likely mediated by the mannose - 6 - phosphate - terminated oligosaccharide chains of laronidase binding to specific mannose - 6 - phosphate receptors .
Because many proteins in the blood are restricted from entry into the central nervous system ( CNS ) by the blood brain barrier , effects of intravenously administered ALDURAZYME on cells within the CNS cannot be inferred from activity in sites outside the CNS .
The ability of ALDURAZYME to cross the blood brain barrier has not been evaluated in animal models or in clinical studies .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamic effect of ALDURAZYME was assessed by reductions in urinary GAG levels .
The responsiveness of urinary GAG to dosage alterations of ALDURAZYME is unknown , and the relationship of urinary GAG to other measures of clinical response has also not been established [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of laronidase were evaluated in 6 - year - old or older patients ( N = 10 to 12 ) with MPS I who received 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly of ALDURAZYME as a 4 - hour infusion in the placebo - controlled clinical study ( Study 1 ) .
After the 1 st , 12 th , and 26 th weekly infusions , the mean maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) ranged from 1 . 2 to 1 . 7 mcg / mL for the 3 time points .
The mean area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ∞ ) ranged from 4 . 5 to 6 . 9 μg • hour / mL .
The mean volume of distribution ( Vz ) ranged from 0 . 24 to 0 . 60 L / kg .
Mean plasma clearance ( CL ) ranged from 1 . 7 to 2 . 7 mL / min / kg , and the mean elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) ranged from 1 . 5 to 3 . 6 hours .
Most patients who received once weekly infusions of ALDURAZYME in Study 1 developed antibodies to laronidase by Week 12 .
Between Weeks 1 and 12 , increases in the plasma clearance of laronidase were observed in some patients and appeared to be proportional to the antibody titer .
At Week 26 , plasma clearance of laronidase was comparable to that at Week 1 , in spite of the continued and , in some cases , increased titers of antibodies .
The pharmacokinetics of laronidase were evaluated in 6 - year - old or younger patients ( N = 7 to 9 ) with MPS I disease who received 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly of ALDURAZYME as a 4 - hour infusion in the open label clinical study ( Study 3 ) .
After the 26 th infusion , the 95 % confidence interval of the geometric mean values of PK parameters ranged from 0 . 6 to 1 . 6 mcg / mL for the maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) , from 1 . 3 to 4 . 4 µg • hour / mL for area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ∞ ) , from 0 . 12 to 0 . 56 L / kg for volume of distribution ( Vz ) , from 2 . 2 to 7 . 7 mL / min / kg for plasma clearance ( CL ) , and from 0 . 3 to 1 . 9 hours for elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of laronidase have not been conducted .
Laronidase at intravenous doses up to 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 6 . 2 times the recommended human dose ) was found to have no effect on the fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Studies in Patients 6 Years and Older Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 45 patients with MPS I , ages 6 to 43 years old , including 1 patient with the Hurler form , 37 patients with Hurler - Scheie form , and 7 patients with Scheie form of MPS I . All patients had a baseline percent predicted forced vital capacity ( FVC ) less than or equal to 77 % .
Patients received ALDURAZYME at 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly or placebo once weekly for 26 weeks .
All patients were treated with antipyretics and antihistamines prior to each infusion .
The primary efficacy outcome assessments were percent predicted FVC and distance walked in 6 minutes ( 6 - minute walk test ) .
After 26 weeks , patients treated with ALDURAZYME showed improvement in percent predicted FVC and in 6 - minute walk test compared to placebo - treated patients ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Primary Efficacy Outcomes in the Placebo - controlled Study ( Study 1 ) ALDURAZYME ® ( N = 22 ) Placebo ( N = 23 ) Forced Vital Capacity ( percent of predicted normal ) Pretreatment Baseline Mean ± s . d . 48 ± 15 54 ± 16 Week 26 Mean ± s . d . 50 ± 17 51 ± 13 Change from Baseline to Week 26 Mean ± s . d . 1 ± 7 - 3 ± 7 Median 1 - 1 Difference in Change from Baseline to Week 26 Between Groups Mean 4 Median ( 95 % CI ) 2 ( 0 . 4 , 7 ) , p = 0 . 02 * 6 - Minute Walk Distance ( meters ) Pretreatment Baseline Mean ± s . d . 319 ± 131 367 ± 114 Week 26 Mean ± s . d . 339 ± 127 348 ± 129 Change from Baseline to Week 26 Mean ± s . d . 20 ± 69 - 18 ± 67 Median 28 - 11 Difference in Change from Baseline to Week 26 Between Groups Mean 38 Median ( 95 % CI ) 39 ( - 2 , 79 ) , p = 0 . 07 * Evaluations of bioactivity were changes in liver size and urinary GAG levels .
Liver size and urinary GAG levels decreased in patients treated with ALDURAZYME compared to patients treated with placebo .
No patient in the group receiving ALDURAZYME reached the normal range for urinary GAG levels during this 6 - month study .
Study 2 was a 182 - week , open - label , uncontrolled extension study of all 45 patients who completed Study 1 .
Patients received ALDURAZYME at 0 . 58 mg / kg body weight once weekly .
For patients treated with ALDURAZYME , the mean increase in 6 - minute walk test distance was maintained for an additional 182 weeks through completion of Study 2 .
At the end of Study 2 , the decrease in mean urinary GAG was similar to the decrease in urinary GAG reported in ALDURAZYME - treated patients at the end of Study 1 .
The relationship of urinary GAG to other measures of clinical response has not been established .
14 . 2 Clinical Studies in Patients 6 Years and Younger Study 3 was a 52 - week , open - label , uncontrolled clinical study in 20 patients with MPS I , ages 6 months to 5 years old ( at enrollment ) , including 16 patients ( 80 % ) with the Hurler form and 4 patients ( 20 % ) with the Hurler - Scheie form .
All 20 patients received ALDURAZYME at 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly for 26 weeks .
After 26 weeks of treatment , 16 patients continued to receive 0 . 58 mg / kg of body weight once weekly through Week 52 , and 4 patients received 1 . 16 mg / kg of body weight once weekly from Week 26 through Week 52 .
Reduction in mean urinary GAG was demonstrated at Week 13 and was maintained through Week 52 .
No patient receiving ALDURAZYME reached the normal range for urinary GAG levels during this 52 - week study .
Changes in urinary GAG levels in children 6 years and younger were similar to changes reported in older patients in Studies 1 and 2 ( 6 through 43 years old ) .
The relationship of urinary GAG to other measures of clinical response has not been established .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ALDURAZYME is supplied as a sterile colorless to pale yellow , clear to slightly opalescent solution in single - dose , clear Type I glass 5 mL vials , containing 2 . 9 mg / 5 mL mg laronidase .
The closure consists of a siliconized butyl stopper and an aluminum seal with a plastic flip - off cap .
NDC 58468 - 0070 - 1 , 5 mL vial Refrigerate vials of ALDURAZYME at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze or shake .
Protect from light .
This product contains no preservatives .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Anaphylaxis , Hypersensitivity and Infusion Reactions Inform the patient or caregiver that hypersensitivity reactions , including life - threatening anaphylaxis , and infusion reactions may occur with ALDURAZYME treatment .
Advise the patient or caregiver to report immediately to a healthcare provider if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or infusion reaction occur during infusion of ALDURAZYME .
Hypersensitivity reactions may also occur up to 3 hours following an infusion of ALDURAZYME [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Cardiac and Respiratory Adverse Reactions Advise the patient or caregiver to report immediately to a healthcare provider if signs or symptoms of cardiac or respiratory decompensation occur during or following an infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] Inform patients using supplemental oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure ( CPAP ) during sleep to have these treatments readily available during infusion or extreme drowsiness / sleep induced by antihistamine use .
Registry Patients should be informed that a registry for MPS I patients has been established in order to better understand the MPS I disease , and to track clinical outcomes of patients with MPS I over time .
The MPS I Registry also monitors the effect of Aldurazyme on pregnant women , lactating women , and their infants .
Patients should be encouraged to participate and advised that their participation is voluntary and may involve long - term follow - up .
Information regarding the registry program may be found at www . registrynxt . com or by calling 1 ‑ 800 ‑ 745 ‑ 4447 ext . 15500 .
ALDURAZYME is manufactured by : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
Novato , CA 94949 US License Number 1649 ALDURAZYME is distributed by : Genzyme Corporation Cambridge , MA 02142 1 - 800 - 745 - 4447 ( phone ) ALDURAZYME ® is a registered trademark of BioMarin / Genzyme LLC .
All rights reserved .
PACKAGE LABEL NDC 58468 - 0070 - 1 ALDURAZYME ® ( LARONIDASE ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 9 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 58 mg / mL ) Concentrated Solution For Intravenous Infusion Only Discard unused portion .
One 5 mL single - dose vial Rx Only genzyme Single - dose vial Must be diluted prior to use .
Store refrigerated at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) Do not freeze or shake Contains No Preservatives See package insert for dosage and administration .
No U . S . Standard of Potency Manufactured by : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
Novato , CA 94949 , USA U . S . License No . 1649 Distributed by : Genzyme Corporation Cambridge , MA 02142 , USA genzyme NDC 58468 - 0070 - 1 ALDURAZYME ® ( LARONIDASE ) Each vial contains Laronidase 2 . 9 mg , Sodium Chloride 43 . 9 mg , Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate 63 . 5 mg , Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Heptahydrate 10 . 7 mg , Polysorbate 80 , 0 . 05 mg , in 5 mL Concentrated Solution For Intravenous Infusion Only Rx Only genzyme LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] Single - dose vial See package insert for dosage and administration Store at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) Manufactured by : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
Novato , CA 94949 U . S . License No . 1649 Distributed by : Genzyme Corporation Cambridge , MA 02142 genzyme NDC 58468 - 0070 - 1 ALDURAZYME ® ( LARONIDASE ) 2 . 9 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 58 mg / mL ) Concentrated Solution For Intravenous Infusion Only Must be diluted prior to use .
Rx Only LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
