NARAMIN Antihistamine Oral Solution Active ingredient ( per 5 ml = one pre - filled whistle ) * Diphenhydramine HCl 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses For the temporary relief of these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes Warnings Do not use • to make a child sleepy • with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • glaucoma • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland • a sodium - restricted diet • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur , especially in children Choking Hazard : Small parts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over Take 2 - 4 pre - filled whistles every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 24 whistles in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to under 12 years of age Take 1 - 2 pre - filled whistles every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 12 whistles in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor Children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Other information • Each pre - fille whistle contains 14 mg of sodium • Protect from light .
• SAFETY SEALED : This product is protected by a sealed pouch .
Do not use if individual foil pouch is torn or damaged .
• Whistle is not child resistant .
Do not remove whistle from child resistant foil pouch prior to use .
• Store between 68 degrees - 77 degrees F ( 20 degrees - 25 degrees C ) • Store in outer carton until contents are used .
Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , DandC red no . 33 , FDandC red no . 40 , flavor , glycerin , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , sucrose , water Questions or comments ?
1 - 855 - 251 - 0106 NARAMIN Antihistamine Oral Solution 10 - 5 ml whistles ( 58292 - 010 - 05 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
