Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Directions • Shake well before use • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Acacia Decurrens / Jojoba / Sunflower Seed Cera / Polyglyceryl - 3 Esters , Glycerin , Ascorbyl Glucoside , Tapioca Starch , 1 - Methylhydantoin - 2 - lmide , Adansonia Digitata ( Baobab ) Seed Oil , Stearic Acid , Butylene Glycol , Caprylic / Capric Glycerides , Betaine , Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Propylene Glycol , Lecithin , Sodium Hyaluronate , Tocopherol , Benzyl Alcohol , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Polysilicone - 11 , Polyacrylamide , Xanthan Gum , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Disodium EDTA , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Sodium Stearate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Dehydroacetic Acid , Laureth - 7 , Hordeum Distichon ( Barley ) Extract , Sodium Benzoate , Melissa Officinalis Leaf Extract , Disodium Rutinyl Disulfate , Ethylbisiminomethylguaiacol Manganese Chloride , Citric Acid , Aspalathus Linearis Leaf Extract , Glyceryl Stearate SE .
Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
Call Toll free 1 - 800 - 295 - 7051 Monday - Friday 9 - 12 a . m ( EST ) BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Dr Russo ’ s Sun Protective Day Moisturizer Sunscreen has been specifically formulated to moisturise your skin and protect it from UVA / UVB exposure .
UV rays are prevalent all year round .
It is important to prevent exposure to UVA and UVB at all times during the day .
“ As a cosmetic surgeon , I see the effects of sun exposure on my patient ’ s skin , every day .
As a scientist I know that it can be prevented .
This exclusive day moisturiser is formulated to deliver a broad spectrum UVA / UVB SPF 30 sunscreen ” .
Dr Mario Luca Russo , MD Dr Russo is a leading European cosmetic derma surgeon and founder of The Rejuvenation Clinic & Medispa , known worldwide for its pioneering work on sun damaged and prematurely ageing skin .
He is a member of the British Association of Dermatologists , the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery and a fellow of the American Society of Laser in Medicine and Surgery .
Manufactured for Dr . Russo Skincare Ltd 102 Harley Street London W1G 7 JB England Made in UK www . drrussoskincare . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
