Active Ingredients Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) helps prevent most athletes foot from recurring when used daily effectively relieves itching , burning and cracking .
Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs if there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Directions wash affected area and pat dry thoroughly apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once a day .
use daily for 4 weeks , if condition persists longer , ask a doctor to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) this product not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other Information store between 20 to 30 C ( 68 to 86 ) F see end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date .
Inactive Ingredients Water , glycerin , Cetyl alcohol , mineral oil , PEG - 15 Glyeryl Stearate , Glyceryl Stearate , Stearic Acid , Carbomer 94 - , Cholesterol , Disodium Phosphate , Myristoyl / Palmitoyl Oxostearamide / Archamide MEA , p - Chloro - m - cresol Questions ?
Call 1 - 855 - ATOPALM Relieves itching , burning , cracking of athlete ' s foot Effective relief of symptoms of ringworm Tolnaftate 1 % ATOPALM Antifungal Cream with US Patented MLE Technology Effective Infection Protection for cuts , scrapes and burns ATOPALM 1 % Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Cures All Major Types of Athletes Foot Fungus Net wt .
1 oz / 28 . 3 g Distributed by : NeoPharm Co . , Ltd 80 Wood Rd , 212 Camarillo , CA 93010 Made in Korea [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
