Label NDC : 51655 - 630 - 52 MFG : 60505 - 2656 - 5 Triamterene HCTZ 37 . 5 mg / 25 mg Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains : Triamterene USP 37 . 5 , Hydrochlorothiazide USP 25 mg Dosage : See package insert Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Protect from moisture .
Store in a tight , light resistant container .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Apotex Inc .
Toronto , Ontario , Canada M9L 1T9 Mfg . for : Apotex Corp . , Weston , FL 33326 Lot # Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic , antihypertensive drug product , principally due to its hydrochlorothiazide component ; the triamterene component reduces the excessive potassium loss which may occur with hydrochlorothiazide use .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic and antihypertensive agent .
It blocks the renal tubular absorption of sodium and chloride ions .
This natriuresis and diuresis is accompanied by a secondary loss of potassium and bicarbonate .
Onset of hydrochlorothiazide ' s diuretic effect occurs within 2 hours and the peak action takes place in 4 hours .
Diuretic activity persists for approximately 6 to 12 hours .
The exact mechanism of hydrochlorothiazide ' s antihypertensive action is not known although it may relate to the excretion and redistribution of body sodium .
Hydrochlorothiazide does not affect normal blood pressure .
Following oral administration , peak hydrochlorothiazide plasma levels are attained in approximately 2 hours .
It is excreted rapidly and unchanged in the urine .
Well controlled studies have demonstrated that doses of hydrochlorothiazide as low as 25 mg given once daily are effective in treating hypertension , but the dose - response has not been clearly established .
Triamterene Triamterene is a potassium - conserving ( antikaliuretic ) diuretic with relatively weak natriuretic properties .
It exerts its diuretic effect on the distal renal tubule to inhibit the reabsorption of sodium in exchange for potassium and hydrogen .
With this action , triamterene increases sodium excretion and reduces the excessive loss of potassium and hydrogen associated with hydrochlorothiazide .
Triamterene is not a competitive antagonist of the mineralocorticoids and its potassium - conserving effect is observed in patients with Addison ' s disease , i . e . , without aldosterone .
Triamterene ' s onset and duration of activity is similar to hydrochlorothiazide .
No predictable antihypertensive effect has been demonstrated with triamterene .
Triamterene is rapidly absorbed following oral administration .
Peak plasma levels are achieved within one hour after dosing .
Triamterene is primarily metabolized to the sulfate conjugate of hydroxytriamterene .
Both the plasma and urine levels of this metabolite greatly exceed triamterene levels .
The amount of triamterene added to 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide in triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets was determined from steady - state dose - response evaluations in which various doses of liquid preparations of triamterene were administered to hypertensive persons who developed hypokalemia with hydrochlorothiazide ( 50 mg given once daily ) .
Single daily doses of 75 mg triamterene resulted in greater increases in serum potassium than lower doses ( 25 mg and 50 mg ) , while doses greater than 75 mg of triamterene resulted in no additional elevations in serum potassium levels .
The amount of triamterene added to the 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide in triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets was also determined from steady - state dose - response evaluations in which various doses of liquid preparations of triamterene were administered to hypertensive persons who developed hypokalemia with hydrochlorothiazide ( 25 mg given once daily ) .
Single daily doses of 37 . 5 mg triamterene resulted in greater increases in serum potassium than a lower dose ( 25 mg ) , while doses greater than 37 . 5 mg of triamterene , i . e . , 75 mg and 100 mg , resulted in no additional elevations in serum potassium levels .
The dose - response relationship of triamterene was also evaluated in patients rendered hypokalemic by hydrochlorothiazide given 25 mg twice daily .
Triamterene given twice daily increased serum potassium levels in a dose - related fashion .
However , the combination of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide given twice daily also appeared to produce an increased frequency of elevation in serum BUN and creatinine levels .
The largest increases in serum potassium , BUN and creatinine in this study were observed with 50 mg of triamterene given twice daily , the largest dose tested .
Ordinarily , triamterene does not entirely compensate for the kaliuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide and some patients may remain hypokalemic while receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide .
In some individuals , however , it may induce hyperkalemia .
The triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide components of this product are well absorbed and are bioequivalent to liquid preparations of the individual components administered orally .
Food does not influence the absorption of triamterene or hydrochlorothiazide from Apotex ’ s triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide 37 . 5 mg / 25 mg or 75 mg / 50 mg tablets .
The hydrochlorothiazide component of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is bioequivalent to single entity hydrochlorothiazide tablet formulations .
Description DESCRIPTION Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide combines triamterene , a potassium - conserving diuretic , with the natriuretic agent , hydrochlorothiazide .
Each Triamterene and Hydrochlorothiazide 37 . 5 mg / 25 mg Tablet , USP contains 37 . 5 mg of Triamterene , USP and 25 mg of Hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
Each Triamterene and Hydrochlorothiazide 75 mg / 50 mg Tablet , USP contains 75 mg of Triamterene , USP and 50 mg of Hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for oral administration contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
In addition , the 37 . 5 mg / 25 mg tablets contain D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake .
Triamterene is 2 , 4 , 7 - triamino - 6 - phenylpteridine .
Triamterene is practically insoluble in water , benzene , chloroform , ether and dilute alkali hydroxides .
It is soluble in formic acid and sparingly soluble in methoxyethanol .
Triamterene is very slightly soluble in acetic acid , alcohol and dilute mineral acids .
Warnings HyperkalemiaAbnormal elevation of serum potassium levels ( greater than or equal to 5 . 5 mEq / liter ) can occur with all potassium - conserving diuretic combinations , including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide .
Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment , diabetes ( even without evidence of renal impairment ) , or elderly or severely ill patients .
Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal , serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients first receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide , when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function .
If hyperkalemia is suspected , ( warning signs include paresthesias , muscular weakness , fatigue , flaccid paralysis of the extremities , bradycardia and shock ) an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) should be obtained .
However , it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes .
If hyperkalemia is present , triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately and a thiazide alone should be substituted .
If the serum potassium exceeds 6 . 5 mEq / liter , more vigorous therapy is required .
The clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed .
These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution , sodium bicarbonate solution and / or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid - acting insulin preparation .
Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered .
Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis .
The development of hyperkalemia associated with potassium - sparing diuretics is accentuated in the presence of renal impairment .
Patients with mild renal functional impairment should not receive this drug without frequent and continuing monitoring of serum electrolytes .
Cumulative drug effects may be observed in patients with impaired renal function .
The renal clearances of hydrochlorothiazide and the pharmacologically active metabolite of triamterene , the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene , have been shown to be reduced and the plasma levels increased following triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide administration to elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function .
Hyperkalemia has been reported in diabetic patients with the use of potassium - conserving agents even in the absence of apparent renal impairment .
Accordingly , triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be avoided in diabetic patients .
If it is employed , serum electrolytes must be frequently monitored .
Because of the potassium - sparing properties of angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously , if at all , with these agents .
Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis Potassium - conserving therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur .
Acidosis may be associated with rapid elevations in serum potassium levels .
If triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is employed , frequent evaluations of acid / base balance and serum electrolytes are necessary .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy
