Drug Facts Rapid Action Daily Face Wash Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face and neck Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet face • dispense product into hands and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly with warm water one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • store in a cool , dry place • do not freeze Inactive ingredients water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium cocoamphoacetate , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium hydroxide , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , fragrance , disodium EDTA , Lavandula stoechas extract , Helichrysum italicum extract , Cistus monspeliensis extract Rapid Action Pads Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Flammable keep away from extreme heat or open flame When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face and neck Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • wipe a pad over face and neck to cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep jar lid tightly closed • store in a cool , dry place but do not freeze Inactive ingredients water , alcohol denat . , glycerin , isoceteth - 20 , sorbitol , sodium hydroxide , fragrance , Lavandula stoechas extract , Helichrysum italicum extract , Cistus monspeliensis extract , disodium EDTA Rapid Action Vanishing Treatment Cream Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair or dyed fabrics , including carpet and clothing which may be bleached by this product • with other topical acne medications , at the same time or immediately following use of this product , increased dryness or irritation of the skin may occur .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
• skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
More frequent use or higher concentrations may aggravate skin irritation .
Mild irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• if going outside , use a sunscreen .
Allow Clearasil Ultra ® Rapid Action Vanishing Treatment Cream to dry , then follow directions on sunscreen labeling .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , discontinue use of both products and ask a doctor Other information • keep tightly closed • store at controlled room temperature 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients water , gluconolactone , glyceryl stearate , glycerin , PEG - 40 stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , cetyl alcohol , dimethicone , magnesium aluminum silicate , xanthan gum , phenoxyethanol , ammonium hydroxide , isopropylparaben , butylparaben , isobutylparaben , arginine , titanium dioxide Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton Clearasil ® ULTRA ™ Rapid Action Clear Skin Kit MAXIMUM STRENGTH Visibly clearer skin in as little as 12 hours • Clearasil Ultra Rapid Action Daily Face Wash 6 . 78 FL .
OZ .
( 200 mL ) • Clearasil Ultra Rapid Action Pads 90 Pads 3 . 58 in2 ( 23 . 1 cm2 ) • Clearasil Ultra Rapid Action Treatment Cream 0 . 45 OZ .
( 13 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
