WARNING : RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS Cardiovascular Risk Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
CAMBIA is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Risk NSAIDs increase the risk of serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Cardiovascular Risk • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
Risk may increase with duration of use .
( 5 . 1 ) • CAMBIA is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs increase the risk of serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
Events can occur at any time without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk .
( 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAMBIA is a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory ( NSAID ) drug indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults 18 years of age or older ( 1 . 1 ) Important Limitations ( 1 . 2 ) : • CAMBIA is not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine • Safety and effectiveness of CAMBIA not established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population 1 . 1 Acute Treatment of Migraine CAMBIA ™ ( Diclofenac Potassium for Oral Solution ) is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults ( 18 years of age or older ) .
1 . 2 Important Limitations • CAMBIA is not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine .
• The safety and effectiveness of CAMBIA have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Single 50 mg dose ; mix single packet contents with 1 to 2 ounces ( 30 to 60 mL ) of water prior to administration ( 1 ) 2 . 1 Acute Treatment of Migraine Administer one packet ( 50 mg ) of CAMBIA ™ for the acute treatment of migraine .
Empty the contents of one packet into a cup containing 1 to 2 ounces ( 30 to 60 mL ) of water , mix well and drink immediately .
Do not use liquids other than water .
Taking CAMBIA with food may cause a reduction in effectiveness compared to taking CAMBIA on an empty stomach [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals .
The safety and effectiveness of a second dose have not been established .
2 . 2 Interchangeability With Other Formulations of Diclofenac Different formulations of oral diclofenac ( e . g . , CAMBIA , diclofenac sodium enteric - coated tablets , diclofenac sodium extended - release tablets , or diclofenac potassium immediate - release tablets ) may not be bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same .
Therefore , it is not possible to convert dosing from any other formulation of diclofenac to CAMBIA .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS CAMBIA is available in individual packets each designed to deliver a 50 mg dose when mixed in water .
Packets : Each containing buffered diclofenac potassium 50 mg in a soluble powder ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions ) to diclofenac [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
• CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Severe , sometimes fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 12 ) ] .
• CAMBIA is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac or NSAIDs ( 4 ) • Pre - existing asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • Use during the peri - operative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious and potentially fatal CV thrombotic events : Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration ( 5 . 1 ) • Serious and potentially fatal GI reactions : Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration ; use with caution in patients with prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding ( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatic effects : Range from transaminase elevations to liver failure ; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 13 ) • Hypertension : Can occur with NSAID treatment .
Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment with CAMBIA ( 5 . 4 ) • Congestive heart failure and edema : Fluid retention and edema can occur with NSAID treatment ; use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure ( 5 . 5 ) • Renal effects : Long - term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury ; use CAMBIA with caution in patients at risk ( e . g . , the elderly , those with renal impairment , heart failure , liver impairment , and those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors ) ( 5 . 6 ) • Anaphylactoid reactions : May occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to CAMBIA ; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if an anaphylactoid reaction occurs ( 5 . 7 ) • Serious skin reactions : Include exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis , which can be fatal ; discontinue CAMBIA if rash or other signs of local skin reaction occur ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years ’ duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID increases the risk of serious GI events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Two large , controlled , clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 - 14 days following coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events such as inflammation , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with NSAIDs .
Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic .
Upper GI ulcers , gross bleeding , or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1 % of patients treated for 3 - 6 months , and in about 2 % - 4 % of patients treated for one year .
These trends continue with longer duration of use , thus increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy .
However , even short - term NSAID therapy is not without risk .
Prescribe NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , with extreme caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding .
Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and / or gastrointestinal bleedingwho use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 - fold risk for developing a GI bleed than patients with neither of these risk factors .
Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients , and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration .
Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during CAMBIA therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
This should include discontinuation of the CAMBIA until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out .
For high risk patients , alternative therapies that do not include NSAIDs should be considered .
5 . 3 Hepatic Effects Elevations of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with CAMBIA .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , may persist , or may only be transient with continued therapy .
Borderline elevations ( less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ ULN ] range ) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15 % of diclofenac - treated patients .
Of the markers of hepatic function , ALT ( SGPT ) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury .
In clinical trials , meaningful elevations ( i . e . , more than 3 times the ULN ) of AST ( SGOT ) occurred in about 2 % of approximately 5 , 700 patients at some time during treatment ( ALT was not measured in all studies ) .
In an open - label , controlled trial of 3 , 700 patients treated for 2 – 6 months , patients were monitored at 8 weeks and 1 , 200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks .
Meaningful elevations of ALT and / or AST occurred in about 4 % of the 3 , 700 patients and included marked elevations ( > 8 times the ULN ) in about 1 % of the 3 , 700 patients .
In this open - label study , a higher incidence of borderline ( less than 3 times the ULN ) , moderate ( 3 – 8 times the ULN ) , and marked ( > 8 times the ULN ) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs ..
Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic .
Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations .
In postmarketing reports , cases of drug - induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month , and in some cases , the first 2 months of NSAID therapy , but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac .
Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions , including liver necrosis , jaundice , fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice , and liver failure .
Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation .
Measure transaminases ( ALT and AST ) periodically in patients receiving long - term therapy with diclofenac because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms .
The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known .
Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences , transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac .
However , severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac .
If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , if clinical signs and / or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , abdominal pain , diarrhea , dark urine , etc . ) , discontinue CAMBIA immediately .
To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements , inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , diarrhea , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) , and the appropriate action patients should take if these signs and symptoms appear .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver - related event in patients treated with CAMBIA , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible .
Exercise caution when prescribing CAMBIA with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic ( e . g . , acetaminophen , certain antibiotics , antiepileptics ) .
Caution patients to avoid taking nonprescription acetaminophen - containing products while using CAMBIA .
5 . 4 Hypertension NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , can lead to new onset or worsening of pre - existing hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Use NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , with caution in patients with hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Patients taking ACE inhibitors , thiazides , or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
5 . 5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs .
Use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
5 . 6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with CAMBIA in patients with considerable dehydration .
Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of an NSAID may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of CAMBIA in patients with advanced renal disease .
Therefore , treatment with CAMBIA is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease .
If CAMBIA therapy must be initiated , close monitoring of the patient ' s renal function is advisable .
5 . 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to CAMBIA .
CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and to discontinue CAMBIA at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
5 . 9 Pregnancy CAMBIA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , CAMBIA and other NSAIDs should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur .
If this drug is used during this time period in pregnancy , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Special Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of NSAIDs in reducing inflammation and possibly fever may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious , painful conditions .
5 . 11 Hematologic Effects Anemia may occur in patients receiving NSAIDs .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
In patients on long - term therapy with NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , check hemoglobin or hematocrit if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss .
NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , the NSAID effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration , and reversible .
Carefully monitor patients treated with CAMBIA who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants .
5 . 12 Use in Patients With Pre - existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal .
Since cross - reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in all patients with pre - existing asthma .
5 . 13 Monitoring Because serious GI ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding .
For patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs , including CAMBIA , periodically perform a CBC and chemistry profile .
Discontinue CAMBIA if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen .
5 . 14 Phenylketonurics CAMBIA contains aspartame equivalent to phenylalanine 25 mg per packet .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular thrombotic events [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Gastrointestinal effects [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hepatic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Congestive Heart Failure and Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Renal Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Anaphylactoid Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Serious Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most common adverse reactions reported with CAMBIAare nausea and dizziness .
The most common adverse events resulting in discontinuation of patients following CAMBIA dosing in controlled clinical trials were urticaria ( 0 . 2 % ) and flushing ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % and > placebo ) were nausea and dizziness ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Nautilus Neurosciences , Inc . at 877 - 874 - 2440 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience With CAMBIA Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of a single dose of CAMBIA was evaluated in 2 placebo - controlled trials with a total of 634 migraine patients treated with CAMBIA for a single migraine headache .
Following treatment with diclofenac potassium ( either CAMBIA or diclofenac potassium immediate - release tablets [ as a control ] ) , 5 subjects ( 0 . 8 % ) withdrew from the studies ; following placebo exposure , 1 subject ( 0 . 2 % ) withdrew .
No withdrawals were due to a serious reaction .
The most common adverse reactions ( i . e . , that occurred in 1 % or more of CAMBIA - treated patients ) and more frequent with CAMBIA than with placebo were nausea and dizziness ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Treatment - Related Adverse Reactions With Incidence > 1 % and Greater Than Placebo in Studies 1 and 2 CombinedDisorder Event CAMBIA N = 634 Placebo N = 646 Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 % 2 % Nervous System Dizziness 1 % 0 . 5 % 6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Reported With Diclofenac and Other NSAIDs In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs , the most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1 % - 10 % of patients are : GI reactions ( including abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , flatulence , gross bleeding / perforation , heartburn , nausea , GI ulcers [ gastric / duodenal ] , and vomiting ) , abnormal renal function , anemia , dizziness , edema , elevated liver enzymes , headaches , increased bleeding time , pruritus , rashes , and tinnitus .
Additional adverse reactions reported in patients taking NSAIDs include occasionally : Body as a Whole : Fever , infection , sepsis Cardiovascular System : Congestive heart failure , hypertension , tachycardia , syncope Digestive System : Dry mouth , esophagitis , gastric / peptic ulcers , gastritis , gastrointestinal bleeding , glossitis , hematemesis , hepatitis , jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System : Ecchymosis , eosinophilia , leukopenia , melena , purpura , rectal bleeding , stomatitis , thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : Weight changes Nervous System : Anxiety , asthenia , confusion , depression , dream abnormalities , drowsiness , insomnia , malaise , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence , tremors , vertigo Respiratory System : Asthma , dyspnea Skin and Appendages : Alopecia , photosensitivity , sweating increased Special Senses : Blurred vision Urogenital System : Cystitis , dysuria , hematuria , interstitial nephritis , oliguria / polyuria , proteinuria , renal failure Other adverse reactions in patients taking NSAIDs , which occur rarely , are : Body as a Whole : Anaphylactic reactions , appetite changes , death Cardiovascular System : Arrhythmia , hypotension , myocardial infarction , palpitations , vasculitis Digestive System : Colitis , eructation , liver failure , pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System : Agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , aplastic anemia , lymphadenopathy , pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : Hyperglycemia Nervous System : Convulsions , coma , hallucinations , meningitis Respiratory System : Respiratory depression , pneumonia Skin and Appendages : Angioedema , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , urticaria Special Senses : Conjunctivitis , hearing impairment 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Aspirin : Concomitant administration with other NSAIDs , including aspirin , is not recommended because of an increased risk of adverse reactions , including GI bleeding ( 7 . 1 ) • Anticoagulants : Concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants ( e . g . , warfarin ) increases the risk of serious GI bleeding ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Aspirin When administered with aspirin , diclofenac potassium ’ s protein binding is reduced .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of CAMBIAand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than that with use of either drug alone .
7 . 3 ACE Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors .
This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking CAMBIA concomitantly with ACE inhibitors .
7 . 4 Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as post - marketing observations , have shown that diclofenac potassium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs , observe patients closely for signs of renal failure as well as to assure diuretic efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID .
When CAMBIA and lithium are administered concurrently , observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
7 . 6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This indicates that NSAIDs may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Use caution when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
7 . 7 Cyclosporine CAMBIA , like other NSAIDs , may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs .
Therefore , concomitant therapy with CAMBIA may increase cyclosporine ' s nephrotoxicity .
Use caution when CAMBIA is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine .
7 . 8 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 2C9 Diclofenac is metabolized predominantly by Cytochrome P - 450 CYP2C9 .
Co - administration of medications that inhibit CYP2C9 may affect the pharmacokinetics of diclofenac [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
Based on human data , starting at 30 weeks gestation , CAMBIA should be avoided as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur ( 5 . 9 , 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Use with caution , as it is not known if diclofenac is excreted in human milk ( 8 . 3 ) • Hepatic insufficiency : The liver metabolizes almost 100 % of diclofenac ; there is insufficient information available to support dosing recommendations for CAMBIA in patients with hepatic insufficiency ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C prior to 30 weeks gestation ; Category D starting at 30 weeks gestation .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , CAMBIA , and other NSAIDS , should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Prior to 30 weeks gestation , CAMBIA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Reproductive studies have been performed in mice given diclofenac sodium ( up to 20 mg / kg / day , 2 times the recommended human dose [ RHD ] of 50 mg / day on a body surface area [ mg / m2 basis ) , and in rats and rabbits given diclofenac sodium ( up to 10 mg / kg / day ; 2 [ rats ] and 4 [ rabbits ] times the RHD on a mg / m2 basis ) and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity despite the induction of maternal toxicity and fetal toxicity .
In rats , maternally toxic doses were associated with dystocia , prolonged gestation , reduced fetal weights and growth , and reduced fetal survival .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of CAMBIA on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
In rat studies , maternal exposure to NSAIDs , as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , increased the incidence of dystocia , delayed parturition , and decreased pup survival .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from CAMBIA , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of CAMBIA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Elderly patients are at increased risk for serious GI adverse events .
Diclofenac is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken when using CAMBIA in the elderly .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Because hepatic metabolism accounts for almost 100 % of diclofenac elimination , patients with hepatic impairment should be considered for treatment with CAMBIA only if the benefits outweigh the risks .
There is insufficient information available to support dosing recommendations for CAMBIA in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
[ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of CAMBIA in patients with advanced renal disease .
Therefore , treatment with CAMBIA is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease .
If CAMBIA therapy must be initiated , close monitoring of the patient ' s renal function is advisable .
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms following acute NSAID overdoses are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression and coma may occur , but are rare .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs , and may occur following an overdose .
Patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Emesis and / or activated charcoal ( 60 to 100 g in adults , 1 to 2 g / kg in children ) and / or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
Forced diuresis , alkalinization of urine , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
11 DESCRIPTION CAMBIA ( Diclofenac Potassium for Oral Solution ) is a benzeneacetic acid derivative NSAID .
CAMBIA is available as a buffered soluble powder , designed to be mixed with water prior to oral administration .
CAMBIA is a white to off - white , buffered , flavored powder for oral solution packaged in individual unit dose packets [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
The chemical name for diclofenac potassium is 2 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino ] benzeneacetic acid monopotassium salt .
The molecular weight of diclofenac potassium is 334 . 25 .
Its molecular formula is C14H10Cl2NKO2 , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The inactive ingredients in CAMBIA include : aspartame ( equivalent to 25 mg phenylalanine ) , flavoring agents ( anise and mint ) , glycerol behenate , mannitol , potassium bicarbonate , and saccharin sodium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action CAMBIA is a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
The mechanism of action ofCAMBIA , like that of other NSAIDs , is not completely understood but may be related to prostaglandin synthetase inhibition .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Diclofenac is 100 % absorbed after oral administration compared to intravenous administration as measured by urine recovery .
However , due to first - pass metabolism , only about 50 % of the absorbed dose is systemically available .
In fasting volunteers , measurable plasma levels were observed within 5 minutes of dosing with CAMBIA .
Peak plasma levels were achieved at approximately 0 . 25 hour in fasting normal volunteers , with a range of 0 . 17 to 0 . 67 hours .
High fat food had no significant effect on the extent of diclofenac absorption , but there was a reduction in peak plasma levels of approximately 70 % after a high fat meal .
Decreased Cmax may be associated to decreased effectiveness .
Distribution : The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of diclofenac potassium is 1 . 3 L / kg .
Diclofenac is more than 99 % bound to human serum proteins , primarily to albumin .
Serum protein binding is constant over the concentration range ( 0 . 15 - 105 µg / mL ) achieved with recommended doses .
Metabolism : Five diclofenac metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
The metabolites include 4 ' - hydroxy - , 5 - hydroxy - , 3 ' - hydroxy - , 4 ' , 5 - dihydroxy - and 3 ' - hydroxy - 4 ' - methoxy diclofenac .
The major diclofenac metabolite , 4 ’ - hydroxydiclofenac , has very weak pharmacologic activity .
The formation of 4 ’ - hydroxy diclofenac is primarily mediated by CPY2C9 .
Both diclofenac and its oxidative metabolites undergo glucuronidation or sulfation followed by biliary excretion .
Acylglucuronidation mediated by UGT2B7 and oxidation mediated by CPY2C8 may also play a role in diclofenac metabolism .
CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of minor metabolites , 5 - hydroxy and 3 ’ - hydroxy - diclofenac .
In patients with renal impairment , peak concentrations of metabolites 4 ' - hydroxy - and 5 - hydroxydiclofenac were approximately 50 % and 4 % of the parent compound after single oral dosing compared to 27 % and 1 % in normal healthy subjects .
Excretion : Diclofenac is eliminated through metabolism and subsequent urinary and biliary excretion of the glucuronide and the sulfate conjugates of the metabolites .
Little or no free unchanged diclofenac is excreted in the urine .
Approximately 65 % of the dose is excreted in the urine and approximately 35 % in the bile as conjugates of unchanged diclofenac plus metabolites .
Because renal elimination is not a significant pathway of elimination for unchanged diclofenac , dosing adjustment in patients with mild to moderate renal dysfunction is not necessary .
The terminal half - life of unchanged diclofenac is approximately 2 hours .
Special Populations : Race : There are no pharmacokinetic differences due to race .
Hepatic Impairment : The liver metabolizes almost 100 % of diclofenac ; there is insufficient information available to support dosing recommendations for CAMBIA in patients with hepatic insufficiency ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) Renal Impairment : In patients with renal impairment ( inulin clearance 60 - 90 , 30 - 60 , and < 30 mL / min ; N = 6 in each group ) , AUC values and elimination rate were comparable to those in healthy subjects .
13 NON - CLINICAL STUDIES 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term carcinogenicity studies in rats given diclofenac sodium up to 2 mg / kg / day ( less than the recommended human dose [ RHD ] of 50 mg / day on a body surface area [ mg / m2 ] basis ) have revealed no significant increases in tumor incidence .
There was a slight increase in benign mammary fibroadenomas in mid - dose treated ( 0 . 5 mg / kg / day or 3 mg / m2 / day ) female rats ( high - dose females had excessive mortality ) , but the increase was not significant for this common rat tumor .
A 2 - year carcinogenicity study conducted in mice employing diclofenac sodium at doses up to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( less than the RHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in males and 1 m / kg / day ( less than the RHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in females did not reveal any oncogenic potential .
Diclofenac sodium was not genotoxic in in vitro ( reverse mutation in bacteria [ Ames ] , mouse lymphoma tk ) or in in vivo ( including dominant lethal and male germinal epithelial chromosomal aberration in Chinese hamster ) assays .
Diclofenac sodium administered to male and female rats at 4 mg / kg / day ( less than the RHD on a mg / m2 basis ) did not affect fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of CAMBIA in the acute treatment of migraine headache was demonstrated in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
Patients enrolled in these two trials were predominantly female ( 85 % ) and white ( 86 % ) , with a mean age of 40 years ( range : 18 to 65 ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a migraine of moderate to severe pain with 1 dose of study medication .
Patients evaluated their headache pain 2 hours later .
Associated symptoms of nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia were also evaluated .
In addition , the proportion of patients who were “ sustained pain free ” , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to no pain at 2 hours post - dose without a return of mild , moderate , or severe pain and no use of rescue medication for 24 hours post - dose , was also evaluated .
In these studies , the percentage of patients achieving pain freedom 2 hours after treatment and sustained pain freedom from 2 to 24 hours post - dose was significantly greater in patients who received CAMBIA compared with those who received placebo ( see Table 2 ) .
The percentage of patients achieving pain relief 2 hours after treatment ( defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain ) was also significantly greater in patients who received CAMBIA compared with those who received placebo ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Percentage of Patients With 2 - Hour Pain Freedom , Sustained Pain Freedom 2 - 24 Hours , and 2 - Hour Pain Relief Following Treatment Study 1 CAMBIA ( n = 265 ) Placebo ( n = 257 ) 2 - Hour Pain Free 24 % 13 % 2 - 24 h Sustained Pain Free 22 % 10 % 2 - Hour Pain Relief 48 % 27 % Study 2 CAMBIA ( n = 343 ) Placebo ( n = 347 ) 2 - Hour Pain Free 25 % 10 % 2 - 24 h Sustained Pain Free 19 % 7 % 2 - Hour Pain Relief 65 % 41 % The estimated probability of achieving migraine headache pain freedom within 2 hours following treatment with CAMBIA is shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] There was a decreased incidence of nausea , photophobia and phonophobia following administration of CAMBIA , compared to placebo .
The efficacy and safety of CAMBIA was unaffected by age or gender of the patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CAMBIA ™ 50 mg ( Diclofenac Potassium for Oral Solution ) is supplied as one or more sets of three perforated co - joined individual dose packets .
Each individual packet is designed to deliver a dose of 50 mg diclofenac potassium when mixed in water .
CAMBIA is a white to off - white , buffered , flavored powder for oral solution packaged in individual unit dose packets .
Individual CAMBIA ™ Packets - NDC 50192 - 113 - 01 Boxes of nine ( 9 ) CAMBIA ™ Packets - NDC 50192 - 113 - 09 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Excursions permitted from 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Manufactured by : MIPHARM S . p . A . Via Bernardo Quaranta , 12 20141 Milan , Italy Manufactured for : Nautilus Neurosciences , Inc . 135 Rte .
202 / 206 Bedminster , NJ 08921 United States of America Manufactured and Distributed Under License from APR Applied Pharma Research SA , Balerna Switzerland 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients of the availability of a Medication Guide for NSAIDs that accompanies each prescription dispensed , and instruct them to read the Medication Guide prior to using CAMBIA [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 9 ) ] .
17 . 1 Cardiovascular Effects CAMBIA , like other NSAIDS , may cause serious CV events , such as MI orstroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV eventscan occur without warning symptoms , advise patients to be alert for the signs andsymptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and to askfor medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Inform patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Gastrointestinal Effects CAMBIA , like other NSAIDS , can cause GI discomfort and more serious GI adverse events such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , advise patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Inform patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Hepatotoxicity Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and “ flulike ” symptoms ) .
Instruct patients to stop therapy with CAMBIA and seek immediate medical therapy if any of these occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 4 Weight Gain and Edema Advise patients to promptly report to their physicians signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema during treatment with CAMBIA [ see Warnings andPrecautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 5 Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . , difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
Instruct patients to seek immediate emergency help if these occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 6 Adverse Skin Reactions CAMBIA , like other NSAIDS , can cause serious skin reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrosis ( TEN ) , which may result in hospitalizations and even death .
Although serious skin reactions may occur without warning , advise patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms .
Advise patients to stop CAMBIA immediately if they develop any type of rash and to contact their physicians as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
17 . 7 Effects During Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation , CAMBIA and other NSAIDs should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 8 Phenylketonurics CAMBIA packets contain aspartame equivalent to phenylalanine 25 mg per packet .
17 . 9 FDA - Approved Medication Guide Upon dispensing to a patient please ensure the patient receives the attached Medication Guide .
MEDGUIDE MEDICATION GUIDE CAMBIA ( Cam - bē - ə or Cam - bē - a ) ( diclofenac potassium for oral solution ) Read the Patient Information that comes with CAMBIA before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about CAMBIA ?
CAMBIA , which contains diclofenac , ( a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug or NSAID ) , may increase your chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance is higher : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines , such as CAMBIA , should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a “ coronary artery bypass graft ” ( CABG ) .
NSAID medicines , such as CAMBIA , can cause ulcers and bleeding in your stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • the use of medicines called steroid hormones ( corticosteroids ) and blood thinners ( anticoagulants ) • longer or regular use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health CAMBIA should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What is CAMBIA ?
CAMBIA is a prescription medicine used to treat migraine attacks in adults .
It does not prevent or lessen the number of migraines you have , and it is not for other types of headaches .
CAMBIA contains diclofenac potassium ( a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug or NSAID ) .
How should I take CAMBIA ?
Take CAMBIA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Take 1 dose of CAMBIA to treat your migraine headache : • remove one single dose packet from a set of three packets • open packet only when you are ready to use it • empty contents of packet into 1 to 2 ounces ( 2 to 4 tablespoons ) of water • mix well and drink the water and powder mixture • throw away empty packet in a safe place and out of the reach of children • taking CAMBIA with food may cause a reduction in effectiveness compared to taking CAMBIA on an empty stomach • do not take more CAMBIA than directed by your healthcare provider .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Who should not take CAMBIA ?
Do not take CAMBIA : • right before or after heart bypass surgery .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about CAMBIA ? ”
• if you have or have had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin , diclofenac , or any other NSAID medicine Before you take CAMBIA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have a history of stomach ulcer or bleeding in your stomach or intestines • have kidney or liver problems • have any allergies to any medicines • have chest pain , shortness of breath , irregular heartbeats • are pregnant , think you might be pregnant , or are trying to become pregnant .
CAMBIA should not be used by pregnant women , especiallyduring the last 3 months of pregnancy unless directedby your healthcare provider to do so .
CAMBIA may cause problems in your unborn child or complications during your delivery • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if CAMBIA passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take CAMBIA or breastfeed .
You should not do both • have a headache that is different from your usual migraine Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
CAMBIA and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
CAMBIA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how CAMBIA works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • aspirin • any anticoagulant medicines ( warfarin , Coumadin , Jantoven ) Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
What are the possible side effects of CAMBIA ?
Serious side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including life - threatening liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms of heart attack or stroke : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • swelling of your face or throat • weakness in one part or one side of your body • slurred speech Common side effects include : • nausea • dizziness Stop CAMBIA and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea that seems out of proportion to your migraine • stomach pain • sudden or severe pain in your belly • vomit blood • blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • itching • skin rash or blisters with fever • yellow skin or eyes • swelling of your arms and legs , hands and feet • unusual weight gain • more tired or weaker than usual • flu - like symptoms Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effects that bother you or do not go away .
These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store CAMBIA ?
• store CAMBIA in a dry place at room temperature between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) • keep CAMBIA and all medicines out of reach of children General information about CAMBIA • medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use CAMBIA for a condition for which it was not prescribed • do not give CAMBIA to other people , even if they have the same problem you have .
It may harm them • this Medication Guide contains the most important information about CAMBIA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information written for healthcare professionals • for more information call Nautilus Neurosciences , Inc at 877 - 874 - 2440 ( weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST ) or through our website at www . nautilusneurosciences . com What are the ingredients in CAMBIA ?
Active ingredients : diclofenac potassium Inactive ingredients : aspartame ( equivalent to 25 mg phenylalanine ) , flavoring agents ( anise and mint ) , glyceryl behenate , mannitol , potassium bicarbonate , and saccharin sodium Rx only Issued June 2009 Nautilus Neurosciences , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 United States of America This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CAMBIATM Diclofenac Potassium for Oral Solution 50 mg Rx Only WARNING : Phenylketonurics : Product contains Aspartame , equivalent to 25 mg phenylalanine KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Contains three ( 3 ) total packets .
NAUTILUS NEROSCIENCES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
