Active Ingredients Camphor 3 . 100 % Menthol 3 . 000 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints .
Penetrating pain relief .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not bandage tightly .
Do not apply heat to the area of application .
Do not apply to open wounds or damaged skin .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Ask a doctor before use , if you have ever experienced a reaction due to ingredients listed .
Stop use and consult a licensed health professional if conditions worsens or if symptoms persists for more than 7 days , or clears up and occurs again .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask the health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age or older Apply to surface , leaving a thin visible film ; by applying a thicker film , the intensity is increased .
Apply to the area of pain , extending outside of the area slightly .
Apply 2 times a day minimum ( do not exceed application of 4 times daily ) .
Allow to dry completely before applying loose clothing over the area .
Directions ( Children 12 years of age or younger ) Ask your doctor or a licensed health professional .
Other Information Store at 15 - 30 C ( 50 - 85 F ) .
Keep sealed tightly .
No triethanolamine used in manufacturing .
Have all medical diagnosis confirmed by a healthcare professional before treating .
Do not use if cap seal has been tampered with .
Inactive Ingredients Water , propylene glycol , glycerin , witch hazel , carbomer , sodium hydroxymethylglycinate , fragrance , arnica montana flower extract , potassium asparate , sodium chlorite , willow bark extract , green tea leaf extract , sodium hydroxide , spirulina maxima extract , aloe vera leaf juice , ginger root extract , bromelain , boswellia serrata gum , sodium sesquicarbonate , sodium bicarbonate , capsaicin ( capsicum frutescens fruit extract ) .
ArNeu penetrating pain relief God Formula Topical Analgesic Counterirritant For the Temporary Relief of Minor Aches and Pains of Muscles and Joints NET WT .
3 . 0 OZ .
( 85 g . ) www . arneu . com NDC 42046 - 002 - 03 US Pat . 7 , 704 , 522 and Pat .
Pending Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
