Active Igredients Titanium Dioxide 7 . 7 % ............. Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 3 . 8 % ................... Sunscreen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Uses Helps prevent sunburn Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection Retains SPF after 80 minutes of activity in the water or sweating Warnings For external uses only .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Apply liberally and uniformly to all exposed areas 15 - 20 minutes before sun exposure .
Shake well .
Rub in well .
Reapply often ( every 2 hours ) and after swimming , excessive perspiration and washing .
Children under 6 months of age ask a doctor .
Effective sun protection for children under 2 years of age is strongly recommended .
Other Information Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreen may reduce the risk of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
May stain clothing .
You may report serious adverse reactions to Report Reactions , LLC , PO Box 22 , Plainsboro , NJ 08536 - 0222 Inactive Ingredients Cyclopentasiloxane , Caprylyl Methicone , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone , Crosspolymer , Dimethiconol , Dimethicone , C30 - 45 Olefin , Phenyl Methicone , Stearoxytrimethylsilane , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Aluminum Hydroxde , Stearic Acid , Thriethoxysilylethyl Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Hexyl Dimethicone Principle Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] MDSolarSciences SPF 40 Broad Spectrum UVA - UVB Sunscreen Mineral Screen Lotion Sensitive Skin Formula Light and Moisturizing Silky Smooth Application Very Water Resistant No Fragrance For Adults and Children 80 g - 1 . 2 . 82 Oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional Carton Labeling MDSolarSciences Corp 40 Richards Avenue , 3 rd Floor , Norwalk , CT 06854 www . mdsolarsciences . com Patent Pending UPC 8 55488 00203 5 MINERAL SCREEN LOTION Safe , Effective & Elegant Suncreen For Sensitive Skin Zinc & Titanium based Free of chemical actives Broad Spectrum Protection UVB ( " Burning " rays ) SPF 40 UVA ( " Aging " rays ) Formulated to meet European standards Elegant Cosmesis Silky smooth Clear when rubbed in well Emolient , mosturizing light formula Also Available from MDSolarSciences : No Touch Body Spray SPF 40 Ulta - Sport Stick SPF40 Ulta Mineral Screen Gel SPF50 Plus Mineral Screen Gel SPF30 Plus A complete sun protection routine can help to reduce photo - aging and the incidence of skin cancer The use of broad spectum ( UVA and UVB ) sunscreens is only one element of safer sun practices .
It is also important to take the following sun - safety measures : SUN SAFE TIPS : Wear Protective Clothing A long sleeved shirt , pants , a wide - brimmed hat and sunglasses should be worn where possible Seek Shade Remember that the sun ' s rays are strongest between 10 am and 4 pm .
Learn the UV Index and be aware of the strength of the sun ' s rays .
Avoid Tanning Beds UV light from the sun and tanning beds may cause skin cancer and wrinkling Get Vitamin D Safely Add vitamin supplements to a healthy diet in consultation with your physician .
