1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ILUMYA ® is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate - to - severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy .
ILUMYA is an interleukin - 23 antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate - to - severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer by subcutaneous injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dose is 100 mg at Weeks 0 , 4 , and every twelve weeks thereafter .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage ILUMYA is administered by subcutaneous injection .
The recommended dose is 100 mg at Weeks 0 , 4 , and every twelve weeks thereafter .
Each syringe contains 1 mL of 100 mg / mL tildrakizumab - asmn .
2 . 2 Tuberculosis Assessment Prior to Initiation of ILUMYA Evaluate patients for tuberculosis ( TB ) infection prior to initiating treatment with ILUMYA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions ILUMYA should only be administered by a healthcare provider .
Administer ILUMYA subcutaneously .
Each pre - filled syringe is for single - dose only .
Inject the full amount ( 1 mL ) , which provides 100 mg of tildrakizumab per syringe .
If a dose is missed , administer the dose as soon as possible .
Thereafter , resume dosing at the regularly scheduled interval .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration of ILUMYA Before injection , remove ILUMYA carton from the refrigerator , and let the prefilled syringe ( in the ILUMYA carton with the lid closed ) sit at room temperature for 30 minutes .
Follow the instructions on the ILUMYA carton to remove the prefilled syringe correctly , and remove only when ready to inject .
Do not pull off the needle cover until you are ready to inject .
Inspect ILUMYA visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
ILUMYA is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Do not use if the liquid contains visible particles or the syringe is damaged .
Air bubbles may be present ; there is no need to remove them .
Choose an injection site with clear skin and easy access ( such as abdomen , thighs , or upper arm ) .
Do not administer 2 inches around the navel or where the skin is tender , bruised , erythematous , indurated , or affected by psoriasis .
Also do not inject into scars , stretch marks , or blood vessels .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • While holding the body of the syringe , pull the needle cover straight off ( do not twist ) and discard .
• Inject ILUMYA subcutaneously as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Press down the blue plunger until it can go no further .
This activates the safety mechanism that will ensure full retraction of the needle after the injection is given .
• Remove the needle from the skin entirely before letting go of the blue plunger .
After the blue plunger is released , the safety lock will draw the needle inside the needle guard .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Discard of any unused portion .
Dispose of used syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe .
ILUMYA is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Injection : 100 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ILUMYA is contraindicated in patients with a previous serious hypersensitivity reaction to tildrakizumab or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serious hypersensitivity reaction to tildrakizumab or to any of the excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity : If a serious allergic reaction occurs , discontinue ILUMYA immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Infections : ILUMYA may increase the risk of infection .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if signs or symptoms of clinically important chronic or acute infection occur .
If a serious infection develops , consider discontinuing ILUMYA until the infection resolves .
( 5 . 2 ) • Tuberculosis ( TB ) : Evaluate for TB prior to initiating treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Cases of angioedema and urticaria occurred in ILUMYA treated subjects in clinical trials .
If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue ILUMYA immediately and initiate appropriate therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Infections ILUMYA may increase the risk of infection .
Although infections were slightly more common in the ILUMYA group ( 23 % ) , the difference in frequency of infections between the ILUMYA group and the placebo group was less than 1 % during the placebo - controlled period .
However , subjects with active infections or a history of recurrent infections were not included in clinical trials .
Upper respiratory infections occurred more frequently in the ILUMYA group than in the placebo group [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The rates of serious infections for the ILUMYA group and the placebo group were ≤ 0 . 3 % .
Treatment with ILUMYA should not be initiated in patients with any clinically important active infection until the infection resolves or is adequately treated .
In patients with a chronic infection or a history of recurrent infection , consider the risks and benefits prior to prescribing ILUMYA .
Instruct patients to seek medical help if signs or symptoms of clinically important chronic or acute infection occur .
If a patient develops a clinically important or serious infection or is not responding to standard therapy , monitor the patient closely and consider discontinuation of ILUMYA until the infection resolves [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Pretreatment Evaluation for Tuberculosis Evaluate patients for tuberculosis ( TB ) infection prior to initiating treatment with ILUMYA .
Initiate treatment of latent TB prior to administering ILUMYA .
In clinical trials , of 55 subjects with latent TB who were concurrently treated with ILUMYA and appropriate TB prophylaxis , no subjects developed active TB ( during the mean follow - up of 56 . 5 weeks ) .
One other subject developed TB while receiving ILUMYA .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of active TB during and after ILUMYA treatment .
Consider anti - TB therapy prior to initiation of ILUMYA in patients with a past history of latent or active TB in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed .
Do not administer ILUMYA to patients with active TB infection .
5 . 4 Immunizations Prior to initiating therapy with ILUMYA , consider completion of all age appropriate immunizations according to current immunization guidelines .
Avoid the use of live vaccines in patients treated with ILUMYA .
No data are available on the response to live or inactive vaccines .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common ( ≥ 1 % ) adverse reactions associated with ILUMYA treatment are upper respiratory infections , injection site reactions , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , a total of 1994 subjects with plaque psoriasis were treated with ILUMYA , of which 1083 subjects were treated with ILUMYA 100 mg .
Of these , 672 subjects were exposed for at least 12 months , 587 for 18 months , and 469 for 24 months .
Data from three placebo - controlled trials ( Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 ) in 705 subjects ( mean age 46 years , 71 % males , 81 % white ) were pooled to evaluate the safety of ILUMYA ( 100 mg administered subcutaneously at Weeks 0 and 4 , followed by every 12 weeks [ Q12W ] ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Placebo - Controlled Period ( Weeks 0 - 16 of Trial 1 and Weeks 0 - 12 of Trials 2 and 3 ) In the placebo - controlled period of Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 in the 100 mg group , adverse events occurred in 48 . 2 % of subjects in the ILUMYA group compared to 53 . 8 % of subjects in the placebo group .
The rates of serious adverse events were 1 . 4 % in the ILUMYA group and 1 . 7 % in the placebo group .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of at least 1 % and at a higher rate in the ILUMYA group than in the placebo group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects in the ILUMYA Group and More Frequently than in the Placebo Group in the Plaque Psoriasis Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 Adverse Reaction ILUMYA 100 mg ( N = 705 ) N ( % ) Placebo ( N = 355 ) N ( % ) Upper respiratory infections * 98 ( 14 ) 41 ( 12 ) Injection site reactions † 24 ( 3 ) 7 ( 2 ) Diarrhea 13 ( 2 ) 5 ( 1 ) * Upper respiratory infections include nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , viral upper respiratory tract infection , and pharyngitis .
† Injection site reactions include injection site urticaria , pruritus , pain , reaction , erythema , inflammation , edema , swelling , bruising , hematoma , and hemorrhage .
During the placebo - controlled period of Trials 1 , 2 , and 3 , adverse reactions that occurred at rates less than 1 % but greater than 0 . 1 % in the ILUMYA group and at a higher rate than in the placebo group included dizziness and pain in extremity .
Specific Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity Reactions Cases of angioedema and urticaria occurred in ILUMYA - treated subjects in clinical trials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infections Infections were slightly more common in the ILUMYA group .
The difference in frequency of infections between the ILUMYA group ( 23 % ) and the placebo group was less than 1 % during the placebo - controlled period .
The most common ( ≥ 1 % ) infections were upper respiratory infections .
The rates of severe infections for the ILUMYA group and the placebo group were ≤ 0 . 3 % .
Safety Through Week 52 / 64 Through Week 52 ( Trials 1 and 3 ) and Week 64 ( Trial 2 ) , no new adverse reactions were identified with ILUMYA use and the frequency of the adverse reactions was similar to that observed during the placebo - controlled period .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins there is the potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of incidence of antibodies to tildrakizumab in the studies described below with the incidences of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
Up to Week 64 , approximately 6 . 5 % of subjects treated with ILUMYA 100 mg developed antibodies to tildrakizumab .
Of the subjects who developed antibodies to tildrakizumab , approximately 40 % ( 2 . 5 % of all subjects receiving ILUMYA ) had antibodies that were classified as neutralizing .
Development of neutralizing antibodies to tildrakizumab was associated with lower serum tildrakizumab concentrations and reduced efficacy .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Live Vaccines : Avoid use of live vaccines in patients treated with ILUMYA .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Live Vaccinations Avoid use of live vaccines in patients treated with ILUMYA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited available data with ILUMYA use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Human IgG is known to cross the placental barrier ; therefore , ILUMYA may be transferred from the mother to the fetus .
An embryofetal developmental study conducted with tildrakizumab in pregnant monkeys revealed no treatment - related effects to the developing fetus when tildrakizumab was administered subcutaneously during organogenesis to near parturition at doses up to 159 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
When dosing was continued until parturition , a small increase in neonatal death was observed at 59 times the MRHD [ see Data ] .
The clinical significance of this nonclinical finding is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal developmental study , subcutaneous doses up to 300 mg / kg tildrakizumab were administered to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys once every two weeks during organogenesis to gestation day 118 ( 22 days from parturition ) .
No maternal or embryofetal toxicities were observed at doses up to 300 mg / kg ( 159 times the MRHD of 100 mg , based on AUC comparison ) .
Tildrakizumab crossed the placenta in monkeys .
In a pre - and postnatal developmental study , subcutaneous doses up to 100 mg / kg tildrakizumab were administered to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys once every two weeks from gestation day 50 to parturition .
Neonatal deaths occurred in the offspring of one control monkey , two monkeys at 10 mg / kg dose ( 6 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) , and four monkeys at 100 mg / kg dose ( 59 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
The clinical significance of these nonclinical findings is unknown .
No tildrakizumab - related adverse effects were noted in the remaining infants from birth through 6 months of age .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tildrakizumab in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Human IgG is known to be present in human milk .
Tildrakizumab was detected in the milk of monkeys [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ILUMYA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ILUMYA or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data Very low levels of tildrakizumab were detected in breast milk of monkeys in the pre - and postnatal developmental study described in 8 . 1 .
The mean tildrakizumab concentrations in milk were approximately 0 . 09 – 0 . 2 % of that in serum on postpartum days 28 and 91 .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ILUMYA in pediatric patients ( < 18 years of age ) have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 1083 subjects were exposed to ILUMYA 100 mg during Phase 2 and 3 trials .
A total of 92 subjects were 65 years or older , and 17 subjects were 75 years or older .
Although no differences in safety or efficacy were observed between older and younger subjects , the number of subjects aged 65 and over is not sufficient to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , monitor the patient for any signs or symptoms of adverse reactions and administer appropriate symptomatic treatment immediately .
11 DESCRIPTION Tildrakizumab - asmn is a humanized IgG1 / k antibody that specifically binds to the p19 subunit of interleukin - 23 ( IL - 23 ) .
Tildrakizumab - asmn is produced in a recombinant Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line and has an approximate molecular mass of 147 kilodaltons .
ILUMYA ( tildrakizumab - asmn ) injection , for subcutaneous use , is a sterile , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
ILUMYA is supplied in a single - dose prefilled syringe with a glass barrel and 29 - gauge fixed , 1 / 2 - inch needle .
The syringe is fitted with a passive needle guard and a needle cover .
Each 1 mL single - dose prefilled syringe contains 100 mg of tildrakizumab - asmn formulated in : L - histidine ( 0 . 495 mg ) , L - histidine hydrochloride monohydrate ( 1 . 42 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 5 mg ) , sucrose ( 70 . 0 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP with a pH of 5 . 7 - 6 . 3 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tildrakizumab is a humanized IgG1 / k monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to the p19 subunit of IL - 23 and inhibits its interaction with the IL - 23 receptor .
IL - 23 is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in inflammatory and immune responses .
Tildrakizumab inhibits the release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No formal pharmacodynamics studies have been conducted with ILUMYA .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Tildrakizumab pharmacokinetics increases proportionally over a dose range from 50 mg to 200 mg ( 0 . 5 to 2 times the approved recommended dosage ) following subcutaneous administration in subjects with plaque psoriasis .
Steady - state concentrations were achieved by Week 16 following subcutaneous administration of tildrakizumab at Weeks 0 , 4 , and every 12 weeks thereafter .
At the 100 mg dose at Week 16 , the mean ( ± SD ) steady - state trough concentrations ranged from 1 . 22 ± 0 . 94 mcg / mL to 1 . 47 ± 1 . 12 mcg / mL .
The geometric mean ( CV % ) steady - state Cmax was 8 . 1 mcg / mL ( 34 % ) .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of tildrakizumab was estimated to be 73 - 80 % following subcutaneous injection .
The peak concentration ( Cmax ) was reached by approximately 6 days .
Distribution The geometric mean ( CV % ) volume of distribution is 10 . 8 L ( 24 % ) .
Elimination The geometric mean ( CV % ) systemic clearance was 0 . 32 L / day ( 38 % ) and the half - life was approximately 23 days ( 23 % ) .
Metabolism The metabolic pathway of tildrakizumab has not been characterized .
As a humanized IgG1 / k monoclonal antibody , tildrakizumab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways in a manner similar to endogenous IgG .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of tildrakizumab were observed based on age ( ≥ 18 years ) .
No specific studies have been conducted to determine the effect of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tildrakizumab .
Body Weight Tildrakizumab concentrations were lower in subjects with higher body weight .
Drug Interaction Studies Cytochrome P450 Substrates The AUCinf of dextromethorphan ( CYP2D6 substrate ) increased by 20 % when used concomitantly with tildrakizumab 200 mg ( two times the approved recommended dose ) administered subcutaneously at Weeks 0 and 4 in subjects with plaque psoriasis .
No clinically significant changes in AUCinf of caffeine ( CYP1A2 substrate ) , warfarin ( CYP2C9 substrate ) , omeprazole ( CYP2C19 substrate ) , and midazolam ( CYP3A4 substrate ) were observed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of ILUMYA .
No effects on fertility parameters were observed in male or female cynomolgus monkeys that were administered tildrakizumab at subcutaneous or intravenous doses up to 140 mg / kg once every two weeks for 3 months ( 133 or 155 times the MRHD , respectively , based on AUC comparison ) .
The monkeys were not mated to evaluate fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials ( Trial 2 [ NCT01722331 ] and Trial 3 [ NCT01729754 ] ) , 926 subjects were treated with ILUMYA 100 mg ( N = 616 ) or placebo ( N = 310 ) .
Subjects had a Physician Global Assessment ( PGA ) score of ≥ 3 ( moderate ) on a 5 - point scale of overall disease severity , Psoriasis Area and Severity Index ( PASI ) score ≥ 12 , and a minimum body surface area ( BSA ) involvement of 10 % .
Subjects with guttate , erythrodermic , or pustular psoriasis were excluded .
In both trials , subjects were randomized to either placebo or ILUMYA ( 100 mg at Week 0 , Week 4 , and every twelve weeks thereafter [ Q12W ] ) up to 64 weeks .
Trials 2 and 3 assessed the changes from baseline to Week 12 in the two co - primary endpoints : • PASI 75 , the proportion of subjects who achieved at least a 75 % reduction in the PASI composite score .
• PGA of 0 ( “ cleared ” ) or 1 ( “ minimal ” ) , the proportion of subjects with a PGA of 0 or 1 and at least a 2 - point improvement .
Other evaluated outcomes in Trials 2 and 3 included the proportion of subjects who achieved a reduction from baseline in PASI score of at least 90 % ( PASI 90 ) and a reduction of 100 % in PASI score ( PASI 100 ) at Week 12 and maintenance of efficacy up to Week 64 .
In both trials , subjects in the ILUMYA 100 mg and placebo treatment groups were predominantly men ( 69 % ) and White ( 80 % ) , with a mean age of 46 years .
At baseline , these subjects had a median affected BSA of 27 % , a median PASI score of 17 . 8 , and approximately 33 % had a PGA score of 4 ( “ marked ” ) or 5 ( “ severe ” ) .
Approximately 34 % had received prior phototherapy , 39 % had received prior conventional systemic therapy , and 18 % had received prior biologic therapy for the treatment of psoriasis .
Approximately 16 % of subjects had a history of psoriatic arthritis .
Clinical Response at Week 12 The results of Trials 2 and 3 are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Results at Week 12 in Adults with Plaque Psoriasis in Trials 2 and 3 ( NRI * ) Trial 2 ( NCT01722331 ) Trial 3 ( NCT01729754 ) ILUMYA 100 mg ( N = 309 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 154 ) n ( % ) ILUMYA 100 mg ( N = 307 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 156 ) n ( % ) PGA of 0 or 1 † , ‡ 179 ( 58 ) 11 ( 7 ) 168 ( 55 ) 7 ( 4 ) PASI 75 † 197 ( 64 ) 9 ( 6 ) 188 ( 61 ) 9 ( 6 ) PASI 90 107 ( 35 ) 4 ( 3 ) 119 ( 39 ) 2 ( 1 ) PASI 100 43 ( 14 ) 2 ( 1 ) 38 ( 12 ) 0 ( 0 ) * NRI = Non - Responder Imputation † Co - Primary Endpoints ‡ PGA score of 0 ( “ cleared ” ) or 1 ( “ minimal ” ) Examination of age , gender , race , and previous treatment with a biologic did not identify differences in response to ILUMYA among these subgroups at Week 12 .
Maintenance of Response and Durability of Response In Trial 2 , subjects originally randomized to ILUMYA and who were responders at Week 28 ( i . e . , PASI 75 ) were re - randomized to an additional 36 weeks of either maintaining the same dose of ILUMYA Q12W ( every twelve weeks ) or placebo .
At Week 28 , 229 ( 74 % ) subjects treated with ILUMYA 100 mg were PASI 75 responders .
At Week 64 , 84 % of subjects who continued on ILUMYA 100 mg Q12W maintained PASI 75 compared to 22 % of subjects who were re - randomized to placebo .
In addition , for subjects who were re - randomized and also had a PGA score of 0 or 1 at Week 28 , 69 % of subjects who continued on ILUMYA 100 mg Q12W maintained this response ( PGA 0 or 1 ) at Week 64 compared to 14 % of subjects who were re - randomized to placebo .
For PASI 75 responders at Week 28 who were re - randomized to treatment withdrawal ( i . e . , placebo ) , the median time to loss of PASI 75 was approximately 20 weeks .
In addition , for subjects who were re - randomized to placebo and also had a PGA score of 0 or 1 at Week 28 , the median time to loss of PGA score of 0 or 1 was approximately 16 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ILUMYA ( tildrakizumab - asmn ) Injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
ILUMYA is supplied as one single - dose prefilled syringe per carton that delivers 1 mL of a 100 mg / mL solution .
• NDC 47335 - 177 - 95 Each prefilled syringe is equipped with a passive needle guard and a needle cover .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light until the time of use .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
ILUMYA can be kept at room temperature at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) for up to 30 days in the original carton to protect from light .
Once stored at room temperature , do not place back in the refrigerator .
If not used within 30 days , discard ILUMYA .
Do not store ILUMYA above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and / or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers to read the Medication Guide before starting ILUMYA therapy and to reread the Medication Guide each time the prescription is renewed .
Advise patients of the potential benefits and risks of ILUMYA .
Hypersensitivity Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infections Instruct patients of the importance of communicating any history of infections to the doctor and contacting their doctor if they develop any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Mumbai , Maharashtra India 400 063 U . S . License No . 2092 U . S . Patent No . 8 , 404 , 813 , 8 , 293 , 883 and 9 , 809 , 648 Tildrakizumab - asmn ( active ingred . )
Product of South Korea .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 ILUMYA is a registered trademark of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited © 2022 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited All rights reserved uspi - tildrakizumab - pfs - 00004 Medication Guide ILUMYA ® ( “ e - loom ’ - me - a ” ) ( tildrakizumab - asmn ) injection , for subcutaneous use What is the most important information I should know about ILUMYA ?
ILUMYA may cause serious side effects , including : Serious allergic reactions .
Get emergency medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction : • feel faint • swelling of your face , eyelids , lips , mouth , tongue or throat • skin rash • trouble breathing or throat tightness • chest tightness Infections .
ILUMYA is a medicine that may lower the ability of your immune system to fight infections and may increase your risk of infections .
Your healthcare provider should check you for infections and tuberculosis ( TB ) before starting treatment with ILUMYA and may treat you for TB before you begin treatment with ILUMYA if you have a history of TB or have active TB .
Your healthcare provider should watch you closely for signs and symptoms of TB during and after treatment with ILUMYA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have an infection or have symptoms of an infection , including : • fever , sweats , or chills • cough • shortness of breath • blood in your phlegm ( mucus ) • muscle aches • warm , red , or painful skin or sores on your body different from your psoriasis • weight loss • diarrhea or stomach pain • burning when you urinate or urinating more often than normal See “ What are the possible side effects of ILUMYA ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is ILUMYA ?
ILUMYA is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who may benefit from taking injections , pills ( systemic therapy ) or treatment using ultraviolet or UV light ( phototherapy ) .
It is not known if ILUMYA is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Do not use ILUMYA if you have had a severe allergic reaction to tildrakizumab or any of the other ingredients in ILUMYA .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ILUMYA .
Before receiving ILUMYA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have any of the conditions or symptoms listed in the section “ What is the most important information I should know about ILUMYA ? ”
• have an infection that does not go away or that keeps coming back .
• have TB or have been in close contact with someone with TB .
• recently received or are scheduled to receive a vaccine ( immunization ) .
You should avoid receiving live vaccines during treatment with ILUMYA .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ILUMYA can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ILUMYA passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive ILUMYA ?
• ILUMYA should only be given to you by a healthcare provider .
• ILUMYA is given as an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous injection ) in areas of your body such as your thighs , stomach area ( abdomen ) , or upper arm .
• If you miss a follow - up appointment and do not receive your dose of ILUMYA , schedule another appointment as soon as possible .
What are the possible side effects of ILUMYA ?
ILUMYA may cause serious side effects .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about ILUMYA ? ”
The most common side effects of ILUMYA include : • upper respiratory infections • injection site reactions • diarrhea These are not all of the possible side effects of ILUMYA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ILUMYA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about ILUMYA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ILUMYA ?
Active ingredient : tildrakizumab - asmn Inactive ingredients : L - histidine , L - histidine hydrochloride monohydrate , polysorbate 80 , sucrose , and Water for Injection , USP .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited , Mumbai , Maharashtra India 400 063 U . S . License No . 2092 U . S . Patent No . 8 , 404 , 813 , 8 , 293 , 883 and 9 , 809 , 648 Tildrakizumab - asmn ( active ingred . )
Product of South Korea .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 ILUMYA is a registered trademark of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited © 2022 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited All rights reserved usmg - tildrakizumab - pfs - 00004 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : xx / 2022 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 47335 - 177 - 95 Rx only ILUMYA ® tildrakizumab - asmn injection 100 mg / mL For Subcutaneous Use Only Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Single - dose prefilled syringe .
Discard unused portion .
Sterile Solution - Contains No Preservative Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
