1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EMVERM ® is indicated for the treatment of patients two years of age and older with gastrointestinal infections caused by Ancylostoma duodenale ( hookworm ) , Ascaris lumbricoides ( roundworm ) , Enterobius vermicularis ( pinworm ) , Necator americanus ( hookworm ) , and Trichuris trichiura ( whipworm ) .
EMVERM ® is an anthelmintic indicated for the treatment of patients two years of age and older with gastrointestinal infections caused by : • Ancylostoma duodenale ( hookworm ) , • Ascaris lumbricoides ( roundworm ) , • Enterobius vermicularis ( pinworm ) , • Necator americanus ( hookworm ) , and • Trichuris trichiura ( whipworm ) , ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage for EMVERM ® is described in Table 1 below .
The same dosage schedule applies to adults and pediatric patients two years of age and older .
The tablet may be chewed , swallowed , or crushed and mixed with food .
Table 1 : Dosage of EMVERM in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( two years of age and older ) Pinworm ( enterobiasis ) Whipworm ( trichuriasis ) Roundworm ( ascariasis ) Hookworm Dose 1 tablet once 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days If the patient is not cured three weeks after treatment , a second course of treatment is advised .
No special procedures , such as fasting or purging , are required .
Adults and Pediatrics : The tablet may be chewed , swallowed , or crushed and mixed with food ( 2 ) .
Pinworm ( enterobiasis ) Whipworm ( trichuriasis ) Roundworm ( ascariasis ) Hookworm Dose 1 tablet once 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 1 tablet morning and evening for 3 consecutive days 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS EMVERM ® ( mebendazole ) Chewable Tablet , USP : 100 mg , round , light peach - colored , unscored , debossed “ ap ” above “ 107 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
• Chewable Tablet : 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EMVERM ® is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or its excipients .
• Patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or its excipients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Convulsions : Convulsions in infants below the age of 1 year have been reported ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hematologic Effects : Neutropenia and agranulocytosis have been reported in patients receiving mebendazole at higher doses and for prolonged duration .
Monitor blood counts in these patients ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Metronidazole and Serious Skin Reactions : Stevens - Johnson syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis ( SJS / TEN ) have been reported with the concomitant use of mebendazole and metronidazole .
Avoid concomitant use of mebendazole and metronidazole ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Risk of Convulsions Although EMVERM ® is approved for use in children two years of age and older , convulsions have been reported in infants below the age of 1 year during post - marketing experience with mebendazole , including EMVERM ® [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hematologic Effects Agranulocytosis and neutropenia have been reported with mebendazole use at higher doses and for more prolonged durations than is recommended for the treatment of soil - transmitted helminth infections .
Monitor blood counts if EMVERM ® is used at higher doses or for prolonged duration .
5 . 3 Metronidazole Drug Interaction and Serious Skin Reactions Stevens - Johnson syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis ( SJS / TEN ) have been reported with the concomitant use of mebendazole and metronidazole .
Avoid concomitant use of mebendazole , including EMVERM ® and metronidazole .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were anorexia , abdominal pain , diarrhea , flatulence , nausea , vomiting and rash ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of mebendazole was evaluated in 6276 subjects who participated in 39 clinical trials for treatment of single or mixed parasitic infections of the gastrointestinal tract .
In these trials , the formulations , dosages and duration of mebendazole treatment varied .
Adverse reactions reported in mebendazole - treated subjects from the 39 clinical trials are shown in Table 2 below .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Reported in Mebendazole - treated Subjects from 39 Clinical Trials * Adverse Reaction ( s ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Anorexia Abdominal Pain Diarrhea Flatulence Nausea Vomiting Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash * Includes mebendazole formulations , dosages and treatment duration other than EMVERM ® 100 mg tablet 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified in adult and pediatric patients postmarketing with mebendazole formulations and dosages other than the EMVERM ® 100 mg chewable tablet .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Identified During Postmarketing Experience with Mebendazole * Adverse Reaction ( s ) Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Agranulocytosis , Neutropenia Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity including anaphylactic reactions Nervous System Disorders Convulsions , Dizziness Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatitis , Abnormal liver tests Renal and Urinary Disorders Glomerulonephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , Exanthema , Angioedema , Urticaria , Alopecia * Includes mebendazole formulations , dosages and treatment duration other than EMVERM ® 100 mg chewable tablets 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of mebendazole , including EMVERM ® , and metronidazole should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available published literature on mebendazole use in pregnant women has not reported a clear association between mebendazole and a potential risk of major birth defects or miscarriages [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated helminthic infection during pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , adverse developmental effects ( i . e . , skeletal malformations , soft tissue malformations , decreased pup weight , embryolethality ) were observed when mebendazole was administered to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at single oral doses as low as 10 mg / kg ( approximately 0 . 5 - fold the total daily maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] ) .
Maternal toxicity was present at the highest of these doses [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risks Untreated soil transmitted helminth infections in pregnancy are associated with adverse outcomes including maternal iron deficiency anemia , low birth weight , neonatal and maternal death .
Data Human Data Several published studies , including prospective pregnancy registries , case - control , retrospective cohort , and randomized controlled studies , have reported no association between mebendazole use and a potential risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
Overall , these studies did not identify a specific pattern or frequency of major birth defects with mebendazole use .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any mebendazole - associated risk because of methodological limitations , including recall bias , confounding factors and , in some cases , small sample size or exclusion of first trimester mebendazole exposures .
Animal Data Embryo - fetal developmental toxicity studies in rats revealed no adverse effects on dams or their progeny at doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day on gestation days 6 – 15 ( the period of organogenesis ) .
Dosing at ≥ 10 mg / kg / day resulted in a lowered body weight gain and a decreased pregnancy rate .
Maternal toxicity , including body weight loss in one animal and maternal death in 11 of 20 animals , was seen at 40 mg / kg / day .
At 10 mg / kg / day , increased embryo - fetal resorption ( 100 % were resorbed at 40 mg / kg / day ) , decreased pup weight and increased incidence of malformations ( primarily skeletal ) were observed .
Mebendazole was also embryotoxic and teratogenic in pregnant rats at single oral doses during organogenesis as low as 10 mg / kg ( approximately 0 . 5 - fold the total daily MRHD , based on mg / m2 ) .
In embryo - fetal developmental toxicity studies in mice dosed on gestation days 6 – 15 , doses of 10 mg / kg / day and higher resulted in decreased body weight gain at 10 and 40 mg / kg / day and a higher mortality rate at 40 mg / kg / day .
At doses of 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 2 - fold the total daily MRHD , based on mg / m2 ) and higher , embryo - fetal resorption increased ( 100 % at 40 mg / kg ) and fetal malformations , including skeletal , cranial , and soft tissue anomalies , were present .
Dosing of hamsters and rabbits did not result in embryotoxicity or teratogenicity at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 6 to 3 . 9 - fold the total daily MRHD , based on mg / m2 ) .
In a peri - and post - natal toxicity study in rats , mebendazole did not adversely affect dams or their progeny at 20 mg / kg / day .
At 40 mg / kg ( 1 . 9 - fold the total daily MRHD , based on mg / m2 ) , a reduction of the number of live pups was observed and there was no survival at weaning .
No abnormalities were found on gross and radiographic examination of pups at birth .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited data from case reports demonstrate that a small amount of mebendazole is present in human milk following oral administration .
There are no reports of effects on the breastfed infant , and the limited reports on the effects on milk production are inconsistent .
The limited clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of EMVERM ® to a breastfed infant ; therefore , developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for EMVERM ® and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from EMVERM ® or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of EMVERM ® 100 mg chewable tablets has not been established in pediatric patients less than two years of age .
Convulsions have been reported with mebendazole use in children less than one year of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of mebendazole did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE In patients treated at dosages substantially higher than recommended or for prolonged periods of time , the following adverse reactions have been reported : alopecia , reversible transaminase elevations , hepatitis , agranulocytosis , neutropenia , and glomerulonephritis .
Symptoms and signs In the event of accidental overdose , gastrointestinal signs / symptoms may occur .
Treatment There is no specific antidote .
11 DESCRIPTION EMVERM ® ( mebendazole ) is an orally administered , synthetic anthelmintic available as chewable tablets , each containing 100 mg of mebendazole , USP .
Inactive ingredients are : microcrystalline cellulose , corn starch , anhydrous lactose NF , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , stearic acid , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium saccharin , and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
Chemically , mebendazole is methyl 5 - benzoylbenzimidazole - 2 - carbamate with a molecular formula of C16H13N3O3 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mebendazole , USP is a white to slightly yellow powder with a molecular weight of 295 . 29 .
It is less than 0 . 05 % soluble in water , dilute mineral acid solutions , alcohol , ether and chloroform , but is soluble in formic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mebendazole , a benzimidazole , is an anthelmintic drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of mebendazole , the majority of the dose remains in the gastrointestinal tract where it exerts an anthelmintic effect locally .
Following administration of 100 mg twice daily for three consecutive days , plasma concentrations of EMVERM ® ( mebendazole ) and its primary metabolite , the 2 - amine hydrolyzed metabolite , do not exceed 0 . 03 mcg / mL and 0 . 09 mcg / mL , respectively .
Dosing with a high fat meal increases the bioavailability of mebendazole , although the overall effect of food on the amount of drug remaining in the gastrointestinal tract is not expected to be substantial .
Distribution The plasma protein binding of mebendazole is 90 to 95 % .
The volume of distribution is 1 to 2 L / kg , indicating that absorbed mebendazole penetrates areas outside the vascular space .
Metabolism Orally administered mebendazole is extensively metabolized primarily by the liver .
Plasma concentrations of its major metabolites ( hydrolyzed and reduced forms of mebendazole ) are higher than those of mebendazole .
All metabolites are devoid of anthelmintic activity .
Impaired hepatic function , impaired metabolism , or impaired biliary elimination may lead to higher plasma concentrations of mebendazole .
Excretion Mebendazole , the conjugated forms of mebendazole , and its metabolites likely undergo some degree of enterohepatic recirculation .
The apparent elimination half - life after an oral dose ranges from 3 to 6 hours in most patients .
Less than 2 % of orally administered mebendazole is excreted in urine and the remainder in the feces as unchanged drug or its metabolites .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Mebendazole interferes with cellular tubulin formation in the helminth and causes ultrastructural degenerative changes in its intestine .
As a result , its glucose uptake and the digestive and reproductive functions are disrupted , leading to immobilization , inhibition of egg production and death of the helminth .
Antimicrobial Activity Mebendazole is active against : Ancylostoma duodenale Ascaris lumbricoides Enterobius vermicularis Necator americanus Trichuris trichiura Resistance There is a potential for development of resistance to mebendazole .
The mechanism of resistance to mebendazole is likely due to changes of beta - tubulin protein , which reduces binding of mebendazole to beta - tubulin ; however , the clinical significance of this is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In carcinogenicity tests of mebendazole in mice and rats , no carcinogenic effects were seen at doses as high as 40 mg / kg ( one to two times the human dose , based on mg / m2 ) given daily over two years .
No mutagenic activity was observed with mebendazole in a bacterial reverse gene mutation test .
Mebendazole was mutagenic in the absence of S - 9 when tested using a continuous ( 24 hour ) treatment incubation period in the mouse lymphoma thymidine kinase assay .
Mebendazole was aneugenic in vitro in mammalian somatic cells .
In the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , orally administered mebendazole induced an increased frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes with evidence suggestive of aneugenicity .
Doses up to 40 mg / kg in rats ( 2 times the total daily human dose , based on mg / m2 ) , given to males for 60 days and to females for 14 days prior to gestation , had no effect upon fetuses and offspring .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy rates derived from various studies are shown in Table 4 below : Table 4 : Mean Cure Rates and Egg Reductions from Clinical Studies Pinworm ( enterobiasis ) Whipworm ( trichuriasis ) Roundworm ( ascariasis ) Hookworm Cure rates mean 95 % 68 % 98 % 96 % Egg reduction mean - 93 % 99 % 99 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING EMVERM ® ( mebendazole ) Chewable Tablet , USP is available as a 100 mg , round , light peach - colored , unscored , debossed “ ap ” above “ 107 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Blister package of 1 tablet NDC 64896 - 669 - 30 Store at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients that : • Taking EMVERM ® and metronidazole together may cause serious skin reactions and should be avoided [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• EMVERM ® can be taken with or without food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Alcami Wilmington , NC 28405 Distributed by : Amneal Specialty , a division of Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 08 - 2021 - 01 PATIENT INFORMATION EMVERM ® ( EM - verm ) ( mebendazole ) Chewable Tablets USP , for oral use What is EMVERM ?
Emverm is a prescription medicine used to treat adults and children 2 years of age and older with intestinal worm infections caused by pinworm , whipworm , roundworm , or hookworm .
Who should not take EMVERM ?
Do not take Emverm if you are allergic to mebendazole or any of the ingredients in Emverm .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Emverm .
Before you take EMVERM , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EMVERM will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
EMVERM can pass into your milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take EMVERM .
Do not breastfeed while taking EMVERM .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using EMVERM with certain other medicines can change the way these medicines act , causing serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take EMVERM ?
• Take EMVERM exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Take EMVERM by mouth with or without food .
• EMVERM tablets may be chewed , swallowed , or crushed and mixed with food .
• If you take too much EMVERM , you might have symptoms that include stomach cramps , nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
What should I avoid while taking EMVERM ?
Do not take Emverm with metronidazole ( a medicine used to treat bacterial and protozoan infections ) as serious skin reactions called Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) can happen .
What are the possible side effects of EMVERM ?
EMVERM may cause serious side effects , including : • Low white blood cell count ( neutropenia ) .
Neutropenia can cause you to get other infections .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood count regularly during your treatment with EMVERM .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have a fever or any signs of an infection while taking EMVERM • Severe skin reactions ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) .
EMVERM may cause rare , but serious skin reactions when taken with metronidazole and other medicines that contain mebendazole .
These severe allergic reactions may be life - threatening and need to be treated in a hospital .
Call your healthcare provider right away or get emergency medical help if you have any allergic reactions or the following symptoms : • severe skin blisters • sores around the mouth , nose , eyes , vagina or penis ( genitals ) • peeling skin • swollen face , lips , mouth , tongue or throat • itchy rash ( hives ) The most common side effects of EMVERM include : • loss of appetite ( anorexia ) • stomach pain • diarrhea • passing gas • nausea • vomiting • rash Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of EMVERM .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EMVERM ?
• Store at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep EMVERM and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of EMVERM .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EMVERM for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EMVERM to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about EMVERM that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in EMVERM ?
Active ingredient : mebendazole , USP .
Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , corn starch , anhydrous lactose NF , sodium starch glycolate , magnesium stearate , stearic acid , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium saccharin , and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
Manufactured by : Alcami Wilmington , NC 28405 Distributed by : Amneal Specialty , a division of Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 For more information , call Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rev . 08 - 2021 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
