1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE COAGADEX , Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) , is a plasma - derived human blood coagulation Factor indicated in adults and children with hereditary Factor X deficiency for : • Routine prophylaxis to reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes • On - demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes • Perioperative management of bleeding in patients with mild and moderate hereditary Factor X deficiency COAGADEX , Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) , is a plasma - derived human blood coagulation factor indicated in adults and children with hereditary Factor X deficiency for : • Routine prophylaxis to reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes ( 1 ) • On - demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes ( 1 ) • Perioperative management of bleeding in patients with mild and moderate hereditary Factor X deficiency ( 1 ) Limitation of Use Perioperative management of bleeding in major surgery in patients with severe hereditary Factor X deficiency has not been studied .
Limitation of Use Perioperative management of bleeding in major surgery in patients with severe hereditary Factor X deficiency has not been studied .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use after reconstitution only For intravenous use only after reconstitution .
• Each vial of COAGADEX contains the labeled amount of Factor X in international units ( IU ) ( 2 ) • The dosage and duration of treatment depend on the severity of the Factor X deficiency , on the location and extent of the bleeding and on the patient ' s clinical condition ( 2 . 1 ) • For prophylaxis of bleeding episodes ( 2 . 1 ) : Age Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age 40 IU / kg twice weekly Monitor trough blood levels of Factor X targeting ≥ 5 IU / dL and adjust dosage to clinical response and trough levels .
Do not exceed a peak level of 120 IU / dL .
Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older 25 IU / kg twice weekly • For treatment of bleeding episodes ( 2 . 1 ) : Age Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age 30 IU / kg Repeat at intervals of 24 hours until the bleed stops .
Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older 25 IU / kg • For perioperative management ( 2 . 1 ) : Age Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age Use a factor of 0 . 6 to calculate the required dose ( see formula in 2 . 1 ) Pre - surgery : raise plasma Factor X levels to 70 - 90 IU / dL Post - surgery : maintain plasma Factor X levels at ≥ 50 IU / dL until the patient is no longer at risk of bleeding due to surgery Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older Use a factor of 0 . 5 to calculate the required dose ( see formula in 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dose • Dose and duration of the treatment depend on the severity of the Factor X deficiency , location and extent of the bleeding , the patient ' s age ( < 12 years or > 12 years ) and on the patient ' s clinical condition .
• Base the dose and frequency on the individual clinical response .
Do not administer more than 60 IU / kg daily .
• Each vial of COAGADEX is labeled with the actual Factor X potency / content in International Units ( IU ) .
• For adolescents and adults ( at least 12 years of age ) , estimate the expected in vivo peak increase in Factor X level expressed as IU / dL ( or % of normal ) using the following formula : Estimated Increment of Factor X ( IU / dL or % of normal ) = [ Total Dose ( IU ) / Body Weight ( kg ) ] × 2 The dose to achieve a desired in vivo peak increase in Factor X level may be calculated using the following formula : Dose ( IU ) = Body Weight ( kg ) × Desired Factor X Rise ( IU / dL or % of normal ) × 0 . 5 Note : The desired Factor X rise is the difference between the patient ' s plasma Factor X level and the desired level .
The dosing formula is based on the observed recovery of approximately 2 IU / dL per IU / kg for adults and adolescents at least 12 years of age .
• For young children ( less than 12 years of age ) , the incremental recovery is approximately 1 . 7 IU / dL per IU / kg so the number at the end of each of the above formulae changes as follows : Estimated Increment of Factor X ( IU / dL or % of normal ) = [ Total Dose ( IU ) / Body Weight ( kg ) ] × 1 . 7 The dose to achieve a desired in vivo peak increase in Factor X level may be calculated using the following formula : Dose ( IU ) = Body Weight ( kg ) × Desired Factor X Rise ( IU / dL ) × 0 . 6 Prophylaxis of bleeding episodesAge Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age 40 IU / kg twice weekly Due to inter - and intra - patient variability , it is recommended that trough blood levels of Factor X should be monitored at intervals , especially in the first weeks of therapy or after dosages changes .
Adjust dosage regimen to clinical response and trough levels of Factor X of at least 5 IU / dL .
Do not exceed a peak level of 120 IU / dL .
Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older 25 IU / kg twice weekly On – demand treatment and control of bleeding episodesAge Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age 30 IU / kg Infuse COAGADEX when the first sign of bleeding occurs [ see Clinical Trial Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Repeat at intervals of 24 hours until the bleed stops .
Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older 25 IU / kg Perioperative management of bleedingAge Initial dose Further management Children : Less than 12 years of age Calculate dose ( IU ) using 0 . 6 as shown in the ' Dose ' formula ( 2 . 1 ) .
The increment of Factor X can be estimated using in vivo recovery value of 1 . 7 ( see formula above ) Measure post - infusion plasma Factor X levels for each patient before and after surgery to ensure that hemostatic levels are obtained and maintained .
Pre - surgery : calculate the dose of COAGADEX to raise plasma Factor X levels to 70 - 90 IU / dL Post - surgery : Repeat dose as necessary to maintain plasma Factor X levels at a minimum of 50 IU / dL until the patient is no longer at risk of bleeding due to surgery Adults and adolescents : 12 years of age or older Calculate dose ( IU ) using 0 . 5 as shown in the ' Dose ' formula ( 2 . 1 ) The increment of Factor X can be estimated using in vivo recovery value of 2 . 0 ( see formula above ) 2 . 2 Preparation and Reconstitution • Always work on a clean surface and wash your hands before performing the following procedures .
• To reconstitute , use the diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection ) and transfer device ( Mix2Vial ) provided in the COAGADEX carton .
• To administer , you will also need a syringe and suitable needle ( not provided in the COAGADEX carton ) .
• Bring the vials of COAGADEX and the Sterile Water for Injection to room temperature before mixing .
• The reconstitution is performed as follows : Table 1 COAGADEX Reconstitution Instructions [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 • Remove the cap from the vial of COAGADEX and clean the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab ( not supplied ) and allow to dry prior to opening the Mix2Vial package .
• Repeat this step with the vial of sterile water .
Step 2 • Peel back the top of the Mix2Vial package .
Do not remove the device from the package .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 • Place the blue end of the Mix2Vial over the water vial and push straight down until the spike penetrates the rubber stopper and snaps into place .
• Remove the plastic outer packaging from the Mix2Vial and discard it .
Do not touch the exposed end of the device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 • With the COAGADEX vial placed on a flat surface , invert the water vial with the Mix2Vial device still attached .
• Place the clear end of the Mix2Vial on the product vial and push straight down until the spike penetrates the rubber stopper and snaps into place .
• The water will automatically transfer into the COAGADEX vial by the vacuum contained within it .
Do not use if the water is not pulled into the vial of COAGADEX .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 • Gently swirl the COAGADEX vial to make sure that the powder is fully dissolved .
Do not shake the vial .
• The reconstituted solution should be clear or a slightly pearl - like solution .
Do not use if particulate matter or discoloration is observed and contact BPL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 • Separate the empty water vial and blue part of the Mix2Vial from the clear part that is attached to the COAGADEX vial by unscrewing counter - clockwise .
Step 7 • Draw air into an empty , sterile syringe ( not supplied ) by pulling the plunger to the volume of water added .
• Connect the syringe to the clear part of the Mix2Vial and push the air in the syringe into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 • Immediately invert the COAGADEX vial .
The solution will automatically be drawn into the syringe .
Draw the remaining solution into the syringe by pulling the plunger back slowly .
• Disconnect the filled syringe from the device .
• Use the product immediately after reconstitution .
Do not store the reconstituted product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Administration For intravenous administration only • If the dose requires more than one vial of COAGADEX : • Reconstitute each vial ( steps 1 to 5 ) using a new Mix2Vial for each vial • Draw up all of the solution into a single syringe ( steps 6 to 8 ) • Visually inspect the final solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , and whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use if particulate matter or discoloration is observed • Attach a suitable needle to the syringe • Administer by intravenous infusion at a rate of 10 mL / min , but no more than 20 mL / min 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS COAGADEX is available as a white or off - white lyophilized powder for reconstitution in single - use vials containing nominally ( approximately ) 250 IU or 500 IU of Factor X activity .
The exact potency / content is listed on the vial label .
When reconstituted using the Sterile Water for Injection supplied with the kit , the final concentration is approximately 100 IU / mL .
Factor X activity in COAGADEX is defined in IU and determined using an in vitro chromogenic assay and a Factor X concentrate reference standard calibrated against the World Health Organization ( WHO ) 3 rd International Standard for Blood Coagulation Factors II and X , Concentrate .
COAGADEX is available as a lyophilized powder for reconstitution in single - use vials containing nominally ( approximately ) 250 IU or 500 IU of Factor X activity .
When reconstituted using the Sterile Water for Injection supplied with the kit , the final concentration is approximately 100 IU / mL ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS COAGADEX is contraindicated in patients who have had life - threatening hypersensitivity reactions to COAGADEX [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
Do not use in patients who have had life - threatening hypersensitivity reactions to COAGADEX ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , are possible .
Should symptoms occur , discontinue COAGADEX and administer appropriate treatment ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Development of neutralizing antibodies ( inhibitors ) may occur .
If expected plasma Factor X activity levels are not attained , or if bleeding is not controlled with an appropriate dose , perform an assay that measures Factor X inhibitor concentration ( 5 . 2 ) .
• COAGADEX is made from human blood and therefore carries a risk of transmitting infectious agents , e . g . viruses , the variant Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( vCJD ) agent and , theoretically , the Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) agent ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , are possible .
Early signs of hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema , infusion site inflammation ( e . g . burning , stinging , erythema ) , chills , cough , dizziness , fever , flushing , generalized urticaria , headache , hives , hypotension , lethargy , musculoskeletal pains , nausea , pruritus , rash , restlessness , tachycardia , tightness of the chest , tingling , vomiting , wheezing .
If hypersensitivity symptoms occur , discontinue use of the product immediately and administer appropriate emergency treatment .
COAGADEX contains traces of human proteins other than Factor X . 5 . 2 Neutralizing Antibodies The formation of neutralizing antibodies ( inhibitors ) to Factor X may occur .
Monitor all patients treated with COAGADEX for the development of inhibitors by appropriate clinical observations and laboratory tests .
If expected Factor X activity levels are not attained , or if bleeding is not controlled with an expected dose , perform an assay that measures Factor X inhibitor concentration .
5 . 3 Transmissible Infectious Agents As COAGADEX is made from human blood , it may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents , e . g . viruses , the variant Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( vCJD ) agent and , theoretically , the Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) agent .
There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in the product .
The risk that the product will transmit viruses has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses , by testing for the presence of certain current virus infections , and by inactivating and removing certain viruses during manufacture .
Despite these measures , this product may still potentially transmit diseases .
All infections suspected by a physician possibly to have been transmitted by this product should be reported by the physician or other healthcare providers to BPL USA Inc . at 1 - 844 - 427 - 5872 or medinfo @ bpl - us . com 5 . 4 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests • Monitor plasma Factor X activity by performing a validated test ( e . g . one - stage clotting assay ) , to confirm that adequate Factor X levels have been achieved and maintained [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Monitor for the development of Factor X inhibitors .
Perform a Nijmegen - Bethesda inhibitor assay if expected Factor X plasma levels are not attained , or if bleeding is not controlled with the expected dose of COAGADEX .
Use Nijmegen - Bethesda Units ( BU ) to report inhibitor levels .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse drug reactions ( frequency ≥ 5 % of subjects ) observed in clinical trials were infusion site erythema , infusion site pain , fatigue , and back pain .
The most common adverse drug reactions ( frequency ≥ 5 % of subjects ) observed in clinical trials were infusion site erythema , infusion site pain , fatigue and back pain ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact BPL USA Inc . , at 1 - 844 - 427 - 5872 or medinfo @ bpl - us . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience As clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
During the clinical development of COAGADEX involving three multicenter , open - label , non - randomized clinical studies , 27 individual subjects with hereditary Factor X deficiency received at least one dose of COAGADEX .
Sixteen subjects aged 12 to 58 years with moderate to severe hereditary Factor X deficiency ( basal FX : C < 5 IU / dL ) received doses of COAGADEX for pharmacokinetic evaluation , on - demand treatment for control of bleeding episodes , and / or perioperative management of minor surgical or dental procedures .
A total of 468 infusions were administered , including 242 for on - demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes , 6 for perioperative management and 31 for PK assessments .
Spontaneous , traumatic and menorrhagic bleeding episodes were treated with an on - demand dose of 25 IU / kg for up to 2 years .
Two subjects aged 55 and 59 years with mild hereditary Factor X deficiency ( basal FX : C 6 IU / dL and 8 IU / dL ) received COAGADEX for perioperative management of four major surgical procedures .
There were 40 exposure days to COAGADEX .
Six adverse reactions were reported in 2 of the 18 subjects .
These were infusion site erythema ( 2 reports in 1 subject [ 5 . 6 % ] ) , fatigue ( 2 reports in 1 subject [ 5 . 6 % ] ) , back pain ( 1 report [ 5 . 6 % ] ) and infusion site pain ( 1 report [ 5 . 6 % ] ) .
In a separate study , nine children ( aged 2 to 11 years ) , of whom four were less than 6 years of age , received 537 ( mean 59 . 7 ) doses of COAGADEX as routine prophylaxis of bleeding episodes during a period of at least 6 months .
In addition , 22 infusions were given to treat a bleed , equivalent to 2 . 1 bleeds per subject per year .
There were no adverse drug reactions in this study .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity All subjects ( adults and children ) underwent Factor X inhibitor testing ( inhibitor screen and Nijmegen - Bethesda assay ) at baseline , end of study and at 3 - monthly intervals in between .
For subjects who underwent surgery , inhibitor testing was done pre - surgery and on discharge .
All inhibitor tests were negative .
Additionally , comparison of pharmacokinetic ( PK ) parameters at the repeat PK assessment with those at first dose did not suggest development of any inhibitors to Factor X .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , it may be misleading to compare the incidence of antibodies to COAGADEX in the studies described above with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interaction studies have not been performed .
Use with caution in patients who are receiving other plasma products that may contain Factor X ( e . g . fresh frozen plasma , prothrombin complex concentrates ) .
Based on the mechanism of action , COAGADEX is likely to be counteracted by direct and indirect Factor Xa inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There is limited data with COAGADEX in pregnant women to inform on drug - associated risk .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted using COAGADEX .
It is not known whether COAGADEX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of COAGADEX in human milk , the effects on the breast - fed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breast - feeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for COAGADEX and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed infant from COAGADEX or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use COAGADEX has been studied in 9 young children and 2 adolescents less than 16 years of age ( 2 . 1 , 6 . 1 , 12 . 3 , 14 ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of COAGADEX did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE One case of accidental overdosage was reported in the clinical trials , in which a subject received approximately 80 IU / kg Factor X to treat a bleed .
No adverse events were reported relating to this overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION COAGADEX is a plasma - derived , sterile , purified concentrate of human coagulation Factor X that contains sucrose as a stabilizer .
It is formulated as a lyophilized powder for solution for intravenous administration .
When reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection it forms a colorless , clear or slightly pearl - like solution .
COAGADEX contains nominally ( approximately ) 100 IU / mL of coagulation Factor X and the following inactive ingredients : chloride , phosphate , citrate , sucrose and sodium .
Each vial of COAGADEX is labeled with the actual Factor X activity / content expressed in IU per vial .
Factor X activity in IU is determined using an in vitro chromogenic assay and a Factor X concentrate reference standard calibrated against the WHO 3 rd International Standard for Blood Coagulation Factors II and X Concentrate .
COAGADEX contains no added biological components such as heparin , albumin or anti - thrombin .
The content of Factor II and Factor IX are ≤ 1 IU / mL of the reconstituted product .
Factor Xa and Factor IIa were not detectable by Non - activated Partial Thromboplastin Time ( NaPTT ) or Fibrinogen Clotting Time ( FCT ) tests for potential thrombogenicity , and comprised < 10 parts per million by weight when tested by more sensitive analytical methods .
The specific activity of COAGADEX is typically 80 - 137 IU per mg protein .
The product contains no preservatives .
COAGADEX is manufactured from plasma , obtained from healthy US donors , who have passed viral screening tests .
All donors are subjected to medical examinations , laboratory tests , and a review of their medical history before being allowed to donate blood or plasma .
All plasma donations are screened for antibody to human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) - 1 / 2 , hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) , and hepatitis B surface antigen ( HBsAg ) .
Additional testing of donations is carried out in plasma mini - pools ( 512 donations per pool ) with nucleic acid amplification testing ( NAT ) for HIV , hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) , hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) , hepatitis A virus ( HAV ) and human parvovirus B19 .
Furthermore , each manufacturing pool is tested to be negative for HBsAg and anti - HIV - 1 / 2 antibodies .
Also , manufacturing pools are non - reactive by nucleic acid test for HAV , HBV , HCV , and HIV - 1 .
The limit for human parvovirus B19 in the manufacturing pools is set not to exceed 104 IU / mL .
Three processing steps specifically designed to remove or inactivate viruses are : 1 ) Solvent / detergent treatment targeted to inactivate enveloped viruses 2 ) A 15 - nm filtration step designed to remove small viruses including non - enveloped viruses 3 ) Terminal dry - heat treatment at 80 ° C for 72 hours in the final container to inactivate enveloped and non - enveloped viruses The capacity of the manufacturing process to remove and / or inactivate enveloped and non - enveloped viruses has been validated by laboratory spiking studies on a scaled - down process model .
Overall virus reduction was calculated only from steps that were mechanistically independent from each other .
Table 2 presents the contribution of each process step to virus reduction and the overall process reduction .
Table 2 Viral Reduction by Process Step Process Log10 Reduction of Virus ( LRV ) over manufacturing step Virus Type ( Envelope / Genome ) Size ( nm ) Solvent / detergent 15 - nm filtration Terminal dry - heat treatment Total LRV HIV : Human immunodeficiency virus SIN : Sindbis virus , model for HCV WNV : West Nile Virus BVDV : Bovine viral diarrhea virus , model for HCV IBR : Infectious bovine rhinotracheitis , bovine herpes virus model for enveloped DNA viruses including HBV HAV : Hepatitis A virus HSV : Herpes simplex virus CPV : Canine parvovirus , model for human parvovirus B19 NA : Not applicable , solvent / detergent treatment step is limited to the inactivation of enveloped viruses NT : Not tested HIV Env / RNA 80 - 100 > 4 . 6 > 6 . 8 5 . 5 > 16 . 9 SIN Env / RNA 60 - 70 6 . 0 NT NT 6 . 0 BVDV Env / RNA 50 - 70 > 5 . 1 > 4 . 5 > 5 . 2 > 14 . 8 HSV Env / DNA 120 - 200 > 5 . 4 5 . 8 3 . 5 > 14 . 7 IBR Env / DNA 120 - 200 > 5 . 3 NT NT > 5 . 3 WNV Env / RNA 40 - 60 4 . 9 NT NT 4 . 9 HAV Non - Env / RNA 25 - 30 NA > 5 . 0 > 6 . 1 > 11 . 1 CPV Non - Env / RNA 18 - 24 NA 4 . 3 [ 1 ] 4 . 2 8 . 5 [ 1 ] Studies using human parvovirus B19 , which are considered experimental in nature , have demonstrated a virus reduction factor of > 5 . 9 log10 by 15 - nm filtration using a PCR method 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COAGADEX temporarily replaces the missing Factor X needed for effective hemostasis .
Factor X is an inactive zymogen , which can be activated by Factor IXa ( via the intrinsic pathway ) or by Factor VIIa ( via the extrinsic pathway ) .
Factor X is converted from its inactive form to the active form ( Factor Xa ) by the cleavage of a 52 - residue peptide from the heavy chain .
Factor Xa associates with Factor Va on a phospholipid surface to form the prothrombinase complex , which activates prothrombin to thrombin in the presence of calcium ions .
Thrombin then acts upon soluble fibrinogen and Factor XIII to generate a cross - linked fibrin clot .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The administration of COAGADEX increases plasma levels of Factor X and can temporarily correct the coagulation defect in these patients , as reflected by decrease in the aPTT and PT .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a clinical study of COAGADEX in subjects with severe or moderate Factor X deficiency ( basal FX : C < 5 IU / dL ) , the pharmacokinetics of COAGADEX were assessed after intravenous infusion ( mean [ range ] infusion rate 5 . 9 [ 1 . 3 - 17 . 1 ] mL / min ) of 25 IU / kg COAGADEX .
Pharmacokinetic ( PK ) parameters were calculated from plasma Factor X : C activity measurements after subtraction of the pre - dose value .
The PK assessment was repeated at least 6 months after the first dose .
The PK parameters following a single dose are summarized in Table 3 .
The pharmacokinetics of COAGADEX were similar following the single and repeat dosing .
Table 3 Mean PK Parameters of COAGADEX Following a Single 25 IU / kg Dose to Subjects 12 years of Age and Older First Dose Mean ( CV % ) ( n = 16 ) CV : Coefficient of variation Cmax ( IU / mL ) 0 . 504 ( 17 . 2 ) Half - life ( hr ) 30 . 3 ( 22 . 8 ) AUC0 - 144 h ( IU . hr / mL ) 17 . 1 ( 21 . 0 ) AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) ( IU . hr / mL ) 18 . 0 ( 20 . 9 ) Vss ( mL / kg ) 56 . 3 ( 24 . 0 ) CL ( mL / kg / hr ) 1 . 35 ( 21 . 7 ) MRT ( hr ) 41 . 8 ( 21 . 7 ) Incremental recovery ( IU / dL per IU / kg ) [ 1 ] 2 . 04 ( 19 . 5 ) [ 1 ] Using peak increment within 30 minutes post - dose Incremental recovery in children < 12 years of age was assessed at baseline and 6 months after the first dose .
Values are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 Incremental Recovery ( IU / mL per IU / kg ) in Young Children Under 12 Years of AgePediatric age group Visit 1 [ 1 ] Mean ( Min - Max ) End of Study [ 2 ] Mean ( Min - Max ) Aged 6 - 11 years ( n = 5 ) 1 . 83 ( 1 . 6 – 2 . 2 ) 1 . 99 ( 1 . 8 – 2 . 2 ) Aged 0 - 5 years ( n = 4 ) 1 . 45 ( 1 . 3 – 1 . 6 ) 1 . 62 ( 1 . 3 – 1 . 8 ) [ 1 ] First dose of COAGADEX ; [ 2 ] After at least 6 months ; Studies were not conducted to evaluate the impact of gender or renal / hepatic function on the pharmacokinetics of COAGADEX .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Nonclinical studies evaluating the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of COAGADEX have not been conducted .
No animal studies regarding impairment of fertility following COAGADEX dosing were conducted ; however , no macroscopic or microscopic pathologies in reproductive organs were observed in rats dosed every other day with 6 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of 60 IU / kg COAGADEX for 28 days .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES On - demand Treatment and Control of Bleeding Episodes In a multicenter , open - label , non - randomized clinical trial to evaluate the pharmacokinetics , safety and efficacy of COAGADEX , 16 subjects with moderate to severe hereditary Factor X deficiency ( FX : C < 5 IU / dL ) received a dose of 25 IU / kg COAGADEX to treat spontaneous , traumatic and menorrhagic bleeding episodes .
If hemostasis was not achieved with a single dose of COAGADEX , additional doses could be given until the bleed stopped .
Subjects could also continue with treatment after the bleed had stopped to reduce the risk of recurrence of a given bleed .
Subjects were aged 12 to 58 years , including 6 pediatric subjects aged 12 to 17 years .
Six subjects were male , 10 were female , and 12 were Caucasian .
The efficacy of COAGADEX in treating bleeding episodes was assessed by the subject and / or investigator for each new bleeding episode , using a bleed - specific ordinal rating scale of excellent , good , poor and unassessable for each type of bleed ( overt , covert or menorrhagic ) .
Overt bleed : ' excellent ' if bleeding stopped within 12 hours with a single dose ; ' good ' if within 24 hours with ≤ 2 doses .
Covert bleed : ' excellent ' if bleeding stopped within 48 hours with 1 or 2 doses ; ' good ' if within 48 hours with ≤ 3 doses .
Menorrhagic bleed : ' excellent ' if ≤ 2 doses within 48 hours ; ' good ' if 2 doses over > 48 hours .
Each bleed was reviewed by a Data Review Committee for its suitability for the efficacy evaluation .
Of the 208 bleeding episodes treated with COAGADEX , 187 bleeding episodes in 15 subjects were evaluated for efficacy .
Of these 187 bleeding episodes , 79 ( 42 % ) occurred spontaneously , 47 ( 25 % ) were traumatic and 61 ( 33 % ) were menorrhagic .
Seventy three ( 39 % ) were mucosal in origin , 63 ( 34 % ) were joint bleeds , 26 ( 14 % ) were muscle bleeds , and 25 ( 13 % ) were located elsewhere .
Ninety eight ( 53 % ) were major bleeding episodes , and 88 ( 47 % ) were minor bleeds ( one bleed not assessed ) .
COAGADEX was considered to be good ( 7 % ) or excellent ( 91 % ) in treating 98 % of bleeding episodes .
Of the 187 bleeding episodes in the efficacy analysis , a total of 155 bleeds ( 83 % ) were treated with one infusion , 28 bleeds ( 15 % ) with two infusions , 3 bleeds ( 2 % ) with three infusions and 1 bleed ( 0 . 5 % ) with four infusions .
The mean dose per infusion and total dose of COAGADEX were 25 . 4 IU / kg and 30 . 4 IU / kg , respectively .
Four bleeding episodes in two subjects were considered treatment failures .
The recommended dose of 25 IU / kg COAGADEX to treat a bleed was maintained during the study for 14 of the 16 subjects .
The other two subjects used doses up to 30 IU / kg and 33 IU / kg .
Prophylaxis of Bleeding Episodes In a multicenter , open - label , non - randomized clinical trial , the use of COAGADEX in routine prophylaxis of bleeding episodes was evaluated in nine children aged less than 12 years of age .
The mean age was 7 . 3 ( range 2 . 6 to 11 . 9 ) years .
Eight subjects had severe FX deficiency and the other had moderate deficiency .
Four subjects were between 0 and 5 years of age and five were between 6 and 11 years of age inclusive .
The majority of subjects were Asian ( 7 ; 77 . 8 % ) and the remainder were Caucasian / White ( 2 ; 22 . 2 % ) .
After the first dose of COAGADEX 50 IU / kg , given at a rate not exceeding 3 mL / minute , all subjects underwent a 30 - minute post - dose incremental recovery assessment .
Routine prophylaxis was started on Day 2 or 3 with unit doses of 40 - 50 IU / kg and during the first 6 weeks trough levels of Factor X were measured to adjust the dosage regimen to maintain a trough level of at least 5 IU / dL .
At the end of the study ( at least 6 months and at least 50 exposure days ) a repeat 30 - minute incremental recovery was performed .
A total of 537 ( mean 59 . 7 per subject ) prophylactic infusions were administered .
The median prophylactic dose per infusion per subject was 39 . 60 IU / kg ( mean 38 . 76 IU / kg ) , and ranged from 18 . 0 to 47 . 3 IU / kg .
Median and mean doses per infusion in the four children less than 6 years of age were both 40 . 1 IU / kg ( 95 % CI 30 . 70 , 49 . 57 ) and in the five children 6 to 11 years of age inclusive , median dose was 39 . 6 IU / kg and mean dose was 37 . 7 IU / kg ( 95 % CI : 23 . 42 , 51 . 91 ) .
The median dosing interval for all of the nine children was 3 days ( range 2 to 8 days ) .
Investigators ' assessment following 6 months of routine prophylaxis was rated excellent in all 9 subjects ; excellent was defined as ' no minor or major bleeds occurred during the study period ' or ' lower frequency of bleeds than expected , given subject ' s medical / treatment history ' .
In addition , 22 infusions were given to treat a bleed , equivalent to 2 . 1 bleeds per subject per year .
One subject had three episodes of epistaxis and the other bleeds were due to trauma or menorrhagia .
All bleeds were treated with a single infusion ; the median and mean doses per subject were both 31 . 7 IU / kg ( range 24 . 6 to 38 . 8 IU / kg ) and all recorded efficacy ratings were categorized as ' excellent ' i . e . Overt bleed : bleeding stopped within 12 hours with a single dose ; Menorrhagic bleed : no additional doses required ; Covert bleeds : there were none in this study .
Perioperative Management of Bleeding The safety and efficacy of COAGADEX for perioperative management was evaluated in five subjects aged 14 to 59 years with mild ( n = 2 ) , moderate ( n = 1 ) , and severe ( n = 2 ) disease , who underwent a total of seven surgical procedures .
For all surgical procedures , COAGADEX was assessed as excellent ( no post - operative bleeding , no requirement of blood transfusions , and blood loss was no more than ' as expected ' ) in controlling blood loss during and after surgery .
For major surgeries , a median of 13 infusions ( range 2 to 15 infusions ) and a median cumulative dose of 181 IU / kg ( range 45 to 210 IU / kg ) were required to maintain hemostasis .
For minor surgeries , a median of 2 . 5 infusions ( range 1 to 4 infusions ) and a median cumulative dose of 89 IU / kg ( range 51 to 127 IU / kg ) were required to maintain hemostasis .
One subject had insertion of a central venous access device ( Portacath ) and was given 6 infusions of COAGADEX during 5 days , a total of 2 , 750 IU ( 27 IU / kg ) ; there were no bleeding complications or safety concerns .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied COAGADEX is supplied in single - use glass vials containing a nominal ( approximate ) 250 IU or 500 IU ( approximately 100 IU / mL after reconstitution ) of Factor X activity , packaged with 2 . 5 mL or 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , respectively , and a Mix2Vial transfer device .
The vials are closed with a synthetic rubber stopper .
The stopper is not made with natural rubber latex .
The stopper is secured with an aluminum overseal with a flip - off polypropylene cap .
Strength Kit NDC Number 250 IU Range 64208 - 7752 - 1 500 IU Range 64208 - 7753 - 1 Storage and Handling • Store COAGADEX in its original package to protect it from light .
• Store the COAGADEX package in a refrigerator or at room temperature at 36 ° F to 86 ° F ( 2 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Do not use COAGADEX or the Sterile Water for Injection after the expiration date printed on the vial and carton labels .
• Use reconstituted COAGADEX within one hour of reconstitution .
• Do not use COAGADEX if the reconstituted solution is cloudy or contains any particles .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise the patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
• Inform patients to immediately report the following early signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions to their healthcare professional : angioedema , infusion site inflammation ( e . g . burning , stinging , erythema ) , chills , cough , dizziness , fever , flushing , generalized urticaria , headache , hives , hypotension , lethargy , musculoskeletal pains , nausea , pruritus , rash , restlessness , tachycardia , tightness of the chest , tingling , vomiting , wheezing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that the development of inhibitors to Factor X is a possible complication of treatment with COAGADEX .
Advise the patients to contact their healthcare provider for further treatment and / or assessment if they experience a lack of clinical response to COAGADEX because this may be a manifestation of an inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Inform patients that COAGADEX is made from human plasma and may contain infectious agents that can cause diseases .
While the risk that COAGADEX can transmit an infection has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure , testing donated plasma , and inactivating or removing certain viruses during manufacturing , patients should report any symptoms that concern them [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Dagger Lane , Elstree , Borehamwood , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom .
U . S . Distributor : BPL USA , Inc . , 302 East Pettigrew Street , Suite C - 190 , Durham , NC 27701 , USA US License No : 1811 COAGADEX ® is a registered trade mark of Bio Products Laboratory Limited .
Mix2Vial ™ is a trade mark of West Pharmaceutical services .
Version 4 Patient Information COAGADEX ® ( co - ag - a - dex ) Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) This Patient Information leaflet summarizes important information about COAGADEX .
Please read it carefully before using COAGADEX and each time you get a refill , as there may be new information .
This Patient Information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment , and it does not include all of the important information about COAGADEX .
If you have any questions about COAGADEX after reading this information , ask your healthcare provider .
What is the most important information I need to know about COAGADEX ?
Do not attempt to do an infusion yourself unless you have been taught how by your healthcare provider or hemophilia center .
You must carefully follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions regarding the dose and schedule for infusing COAGADEX so that your treatment will work best for you .
What is COAGADEX ?
COAGADEX is a medicine given as an injection into the vein to replace the clotting factor that is missing in people with Factor X deficiency .
Factor X deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder that prevents blood from clotting normally .
COAGADEX is used to treat , control or reduce bleeding in patients with hereditary Factor X deficiency .
Your healthcare provider may give you COAGADEX when you have surgery .
Who should not use COAGADEX ?
You should not use COAGADEX if you are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to any of the ingredients in COAGADEX .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or breast - feeding because COAGADEX may not be right for you .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before I use COAGADEX ?
You should tell your healthcare provider if you : • Have or have had any medical problems • Have any allergies • Take any prescription and non - prescription medicines , including over - the - counter medicines , supplements or herbal medicines • Are breast - feeding .
It is not known if COAGADEX passes into your milk and if it can harm your baby • Are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if COAGADEX may harm your unborn baby • Have been told you have inhibitors to Factor X How should I use COAGADEX ?
You get COAGADEX as an infusion into your vein .
You may infuse COAGADEX at a hemophilia treatment center , at your healthcare provider ' s office or in your home .
You should be trained on how to do infusions by your healthcare provider or hemophilia treatment center .
Many people with coagulation factor deficiencies learn to infuse their treatment by themselves or with the help of a family member or caregiver .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much COAGADEX to use based on your weight , the severity of your Factor X deficiency , and where you are bleeding from .
You may need blood tests done after using COAGADEX to be sure that the level of Factor X in your blood is high enough to clot your blood .
Call your healthcare provider right away if your bleeding does not stop after using COAGADEX .
What are the possible side - effects of COAGADEX ?
You can have an allergic reaction to COAGADEX .
Stop treatment and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : difficulty breathing , chest tightness , swelling of the face , rash or hives .
Common side effects of COAGADEX are infusion site redness , infusion site pain , tiredness , and back pain .
Your body can also make antibodies , called " inhibitors , " against COAGADEX , which may stop COAGADEX from working properly .
Your healthcare provider may give you blood tests to check for inhibitors .
These are not all of the possible side effects of COAGADEX .
Tell your healthcare provider about any side effects that bother you or do not go away .
What are the COAGADEX dosage strengths ?
COAGADEX is packaged with a suitable volume ( 2 . 5 mL or 5 mL ) of Sterile Water for Injection , and one Mix2Vial transfer device .
COAGADEX comes in two different dosage strengths : Approximately 250 International Units ( IU ) – to be reconstituted with 2 . 5 mL of sterile water .
Approximately 500 International Units ( IU ) - to be reconstituted with 5 mL of sterile water .
The actual strength will be printed on the vial label and on the box .
Once dissolved , the concentrations in these two vials will be the same , 100 IU per mL .
Always check the actual dosage printed on the label to make sure you are using the vial size prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Always check the expiration date printed on the box .
Do not use the product after the expiration date printed on the box .
How do I store COAGADEX ?
• Keep COAGADEX in its original package to protect it from light .
• Store COAGADEX in a refrigerator ( not below 36 ° F [ 2 ° C ] ) or at room temperature ( not to exceed 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) .
Do not freeze .
What else should I know about COAGADEX ?
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed here .
Do not use COAGADEX for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not share COAGADEX with other people , even if they have the same symptoms or condition that you have .
For further information or if you have any questions about COAGADEX , please contact BPL Inc . at the address below or through medinfo @ bpl - us . com U . S . Distributor : BPL USA , Inc . , 302 East Pettigrew Street , Suite C - 190 , Durham , NC 27701 , USA Version 4 Instructions for Use COAGADEX ® ( co - ag - a - dex ) Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) Important : Do not attempt to give an infusion to yourself unless you have been taught how to by your healthcare provider or hemophilia center .
Always follow the specific instructions given by your healthcare provider .
The steps listed below are general guidelines for using COAGADEX .
If you are unsure of the procedures , please call your healthcare provider before using .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the dose and when to use COAGADEX .
Contact your healthcare provider right away if you accidentally take more than the prescribed dose .
Your healthcare provider may need to take blood tests from time to time .
Talk to your healthcare provider before traveling .
Plan to take enough COAGADEX for your treatment during this time .
Dispose of all materials , including any leftover reconstituted COAGADEX product , in an appropriate container .
How should I dissolve COAGADEX before use ?
COAGADEX must be dissolved in the sterile water provided with the product using the provided transfer device called Mix2Vial ™ .
See below for step - by - step instructions for reconstituting COAGADEX .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 • Bring the vials of COAGADEX and sterile water to room temperature before mixing .
• Remove the cap from the vial of COAGADEX and clean the top of the stopper with an alcohol swab .
• Repeat this step with the vial of sterile water .
Step 2 • Peel back the top of the Mix2Vial package but leave the device in the package .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 • The sterile water will be pulled into the vial of COAGADEX by the vacuum contained within it .
• Gently swirl the vial to make sure the powder is thoroughly mixed .
Do not shake the vial .
• A clear or slightly pearl - like solution should be obtained , usually in less than 1 minute ( 5 minutes maximum ) .
Note : If the water is not pulled into the vial of COAGADEX .
This indicates a loss of vacuum in the vial .
Do not use the product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 • Place the blue end of the Mix2Vial on the sterile water vial and push straight down until the spike penetrates the rubber stopper and snaps into place .
• Remove the plastic outer packaging from the Mix2Vial and discard it .
Do not touch the exposed end of the device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 • Separate the empty sterile water vial and blue part from the clear part by unscrewing counter - clockwise .
Step 7 • Draw air into the syringe by pulling the plunger to the required volume of sterile water added .
• Connect the syringe to the clear part of the Mix2Vial .
• Push the air in the syringe into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 • Turn the sterile water vial upside down with the device still attached .
• Place the clear end of the Mix2Vial on the product vial and push straight down until the spike penetrates the rubber stopper and snaps into place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 • Immediately invert the COAGADEX vial .
The solution will be drawn into the syringe .
• Disconnect the filled syringe from the device .
• Use the product immediately or within one hour of reconstitution .
Do not store the reconstituted product .
Note : If there are any particles in the syringe , or if the solution is cloudy , or if a gel or clot forms , contact the manufacturer to report the batch number printed on the vial .
If you have to use more than one vial of COAGADEX to make up your dose , repeat steps 1 to 5 to reconstitute each vial and draw up all of the solution into one syringe for your injection .
You must use a new Mix2Vial to draw the contents of each vial up into the plastic syringe .
How do I inject COAGADEX ?
Inspect the solution before injection .
Do not use if there are any particles in the syringe , or if the solution is cloudy , or if a gel or clot forms .
Do not add the solution to any other fluids and do not mix it together with any other medicine .
To inject the medicine : • Attach a suitable needle to the syringe containing COAGADEX solution .
• Inject the dose at a suggested rate of 10 mL / min , but no more than 20 mL / min into your vein .
Important : Contact your healthcare provider or local hemophilia treatment center if you experience any problems .
Manufactured by : Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Dagger Lane , Elstree , Borehamwood , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom U . S . Licence No : 1811 U . S . Distributor : BPL USA , Inc . , 302 East Pettigrew Street , Suite C - 190 , Durham , NC 27701 , USA Version 4 COAGADEX ® is a registered trade mark of Bio Products Laboratory Limited .
Mix2Vial ™ is a trade mark of West Pharmaceutical services .
FXUSPI4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 IU Kit Carton NDC : 64208 - 7752 - 1 250 IU Range Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) Coagadex ® LYOPHILIZED POWDER FOR SOLUTION FOR INJECTION FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY Rx ONLY Manufactured by : Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Dagger Lane , Elstree , Borehamwood , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom U . S . License No . 1811 Bio Products Laboratory [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 IU Vial Label Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) Coagadex ® 250 IU Range • FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
• Read enclosed package insert before use .
• Rx only .
• Store between 36 ° F – 86 ° F ( 2 ° C – 30 ° C ) .
• DO NOT FREEZE .
NDC : 64208 - 7754 - 1 FXRNUS2L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 5 mL Vial Label Sterile Water for Injection 2 . 5 mL Store between 36 ° F – 86 ° F ( 2 ° C – 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not use unless clear .
NDC : 64208 - 7755 - 1 Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Elstree , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom WWBNUS2L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 IU Kit Carton NDC : 64208 - 7753 - 1 500 IU Range Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) Coagadex ® LYOPHILIZED POWDER FOR SOLUTION FOR INJECTION FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY Rx ONLY Manufactured by : Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Dagger Lane , Elstree , Borehamwood , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom U . S . License No . 1811 Bio Products Laboratory [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 IU Vial Label Coagulation Factor X ( Human ) Coagadex ® 500 IU Range • FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
• Read enclosed package insert before use .
• Rx only .
• Store between 36 ° F – 86 ° F ( 2 ° C – 30 ° C ) .
• DO NOT FREEZE .
NDC : 64208 - 7756 - 1 FXSNUS2L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Vial Label Sterile Water for Injection 5 mL Store between 36 ° F – 86 ° F ( 2 ° C – 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not use unless clear .
NDC : 64208 - 7755 - 2 Bio Products Laboratory Ltd . , Elstree , WD6 3 BX , United Kingdom WWENUS2L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
