( acetylcholine chloride intraocular solution ) 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) Sterile 1 : 100 with Electrolyte Diluent FOR INTRAOCULAR USE ONLY DESCRIPTION Miochol ™ - E ( acetylcholine chloride intraocular solution ) is a parasympathomimetic preparation for intraocular use .
It is packaged in a blister pack containing one vial and one diluent ampule .
The vial contains 20 mg acetylcholine chloride and 56 mg mannitol .
The accompanying ampule contains 2 mL of a modified diluent of calcium chloride dihydrate , magnesium chloride hexahydrate , potassium chloride , sodium acetate trihydrate , and sterile water for injection .
The reconstituted liquid will be a sterile isotonic solution ( 275 – 330 milliosmoles / kg ) containing 20 mg acetylcholine chloride ( 1 : 100 solution ) and 2 . 8 % mannitol .
The pH range is 5 . 0 – 8 . 2 .
Mannitol is used in the process of lyophilizing acetylcholine chloride , and is not considered an active ingredient .
The chemical name for acetylcholine chloride , C7H16ClNO2 , is Ethanaminium , 2 - ( acetyloxy ) - N , N , N - trimethyl - , chloride and is represented by the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acetylcholine is a naturally occurring neurohormone which mediates nerve impulse transmission at all cholinergic sites involving somatic and autonomic nerves .
After release from the nerve ending , acetylcholine is rapidly inactivated by the enzyme acetylcholinesterase by hydrolysis to acetic acid and choline .
Direct application of acetylcholine to the iris will cause rapid miosis of short duration .
Topical ocular instillation of acetylcholine to the intact eye causes no discernible response as cholinesterase destroys the molecule more rapidly than it can penetrate the cornea .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To obtain miosis of the iris in seconds after delivery of the lens in cataract surgery , in penetrating keratoplasty , iridectomy , and other anterior segment surgery where rapid miosis may be required .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Miochol - E is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS DO NOT GAS STERILIZE .
If blister or peelable backing is damaged or broken , sterility of the enclosed vial and ampule cannot be assured .
Open under aseptic conditions only .
PRECAUTIONS General If miosis is to be obtained quickly with Miochol - E , anatomical hindrances to miosis , such as anterior or posterior synechiae , must be released , prior to administration of Miochol - E .
During cataract surgery , use Miochol - E only after delivery of the lens .
Aqueous solutions of acetylcholine chloride are unstable .
Prepare solution immediately before use .
Do not use solution which is not clear and colorless .
Discard any solution that has not been used .
Drug Interactions Although clinical studies with acetylcholine chloride and animal studies with acetylcholine or carbachol revealed no interference , and there is no known pharmacological basis for an interaction , there have been reports that acetylcholine chloride and carbachol have been ineffective when used in patients treated with topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Infrequent cases of corneal edema , corneal clouding , and corneal decompensation have been reported with the use of intraocular acetylcholine .
Adverse reactions have been reported rarely , which are indicative of systemic absorption .
These include bradycardia , hypotension , flushing , breathing difficulties , and sweating .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Atropine sulfate ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg ) should be given intramuscularly or intravenously and should be readily available to counteract possible overdosage .
Epinephrine ( 0 . 1 to 1 mg subcutaneously ) is also of value in overcoming severe cardiovascular or bronchoconstrictor responses .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Miochol ™ - E ( acetylcholine chloride intraocular solution ) is instilled into the anterior chamber before or after securing one or more sutures .
Instillation should be gentle and parallel to the iris face and tangential to pupil border .
If there are no mechanical hindrances , the pupil starts to constrict in seconds and the peripheral iris is drawn away from the angle of the anterior chamber .
Any anatomical hindrance to miosis must be released to permit the desired effect of the drug .
In most cases , 0 . 5 to 2 mL produces satisfactory miosis .
Note that the syringe filter supplied with Miochol - E has a priming volume of 0 . 6 mL ( approximately ) .
In cataract surgery , use Miochol - E only after delivery of the lens .
Aqueous solutions of acetylcholine chloride are unstable .
Prepare solution immediately before use .
Do not use solution that is not clear and colorless .
Discard any solution that has not been used .
DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING MIOCHOL ™ - E : STERILE UNLESS PACKAGE OPEN OR BROKEN • 1 .
Inspect the unopened blister , vial , and ampule to ensure that they are all intact .
Peel open the blister under a sterile field .
Maintain sterility of the outer containers of the vial and ampule during preparation of solution .
• 2 .
Aseptically attach a sterile 18 – 20 gauge , beveled needle to the luer tip of a sterile disposable syringe with a twisting motion to assure a secure fit .
• 3 .
Break open the ampule containing the diluent .
The One Point Cut ( OPC ) ampule must be opened as follows : Hold the bottom part of the ampule with the thumb pointing to the colored dot .
Grasp the top of the ampule with the other hand , positioning the thumb at the colored dot , and press back to break at the existing cut under the dot .
• 4 .
Remove the needle protector and withdraw the diluent from the ampule into the syringe .
Discard the ampule .
• 5 .
Remove and discard the cap from the top of the vial .
• 6 .
Insert the needle through the center of the vial stopper , and transfer the diluent from the syringe to the vial .
Shake gently to dissolve the powder .
• 7 .
Slowly withdraw the solution from the vial through the needle into the syringe .
Discard the needle .
• 8 .
Aseptically open the syringe filter pouch , and attach the filter onto the luer tip of the syringe with a twisting motion to assure a secure fit .
• 9 .
Aseptically attach a sterile blunt tip irrigation cannula to the male luer of the filter prior to intraocular irrigation .
Discard the filter appropriately after use .
Do not reuse the syringe filter .
Do not aspirate and inject through the same filter .
HOW SUPPLIED Miochol ™ - E ( acetylcholine chloride intraocular solution ) NDC 24208 - 539 - 20 One blister pack containing the following components : • • Vial of 20 mg acetylcholine chloride powder for intraocular solution • • Ampule of 2 mL diluent One 0 . 2 micron sterile filter • • Priming volume 0 . 6 mL ( approximately ) Storage Store at 4 ° to 25 ° C ( 39 ° to 77 ° F ) .
KEEP FROM FREEZING .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Sanofi s . r . l . Via Valcanello , 4 03012 Anagni ( FR ) Italy Miochol is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2021 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Rev . 01 / 2021 9214905 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 24208 - 539 - 20 Miochol ™ - E ( acetylcholine chloride intraocular solution ) 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) Sterile 1 : 100 with Electrolyte Diluent FOR INTRAOCULAR USE ONLY Rx Only Contents : One Blister Pack containing : - 20 mg vial - 2 mL diluent ampule One 0 . 2 micron sterile filter BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ]
