ADD - Vantage ® Vials Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection and other antibacterial drugs , vancomycin hydrochloride for injection , should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection , USP is a lyophilized powder , for preparing intravenous ( IV ) infusions , in ADD - Vantage ® vials each containing the equivalent of 500 mg , 750 mg or 1 g vancomycin base .
500 mg of the base are equivalent to 0 . 34 mmol , 750 mg of the base are equivalent to 0 . 51 mmol , and 1 g of the base are equivalent to 0 . 67 mmol .
When reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection to a concentration of 50 mg / mL , the pH of the solution is between 2 . 5 and 4 . 5 .
This product is oxygen sensitive .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP should be administered intravenously in diluted solution ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Vancomycin is a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic derived from Amycolatopsis orientalis ( formerly Nocardia orientalis ) .
The chemical name for vancomycin hydrochloride is 3 S - [ 3 R * , 6 S * ( S * ) , 7 S * , 22 S * , 23 R * , 26 R * , 36 S * , 38 aS * ] ] - 3 - ( 2 - Amino - 2 - oxoethyl ) - 44 - [ [ 2 - O - ( 3 - amino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - α - L - lyxo - hexopyranosyl ) - ß - D - glucopyranosyl ] oxy ] - 10 , 19 - dichloro - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 36 , 37 , 38 , 38 a - tetradecahydro - 7 , 22 , 28 , 30 , 32 - pentahydroxy - 6 - [ [ 4 - methyl - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 1 - oxopentyl ] amino ] - 2 , 5 , 24 , 38 , 39 - pentaoxo - 22 H - 8 , 11 : 18 , 21 - dietheno - 23 , 36 - ( iminomethano ) - 13 , 16 : 31 , 35 - dimetheno - 1 H , 16 H - [ 1 , 6 , 9 ] oxadiazacyclohexadecino [ 4 , 5 - m ] [ 10 , 2 , 16 ] - benzoxadiazacyclotetracosine - 26 - carboxylic acid , monohydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C66H75Cl2N9O24 ∙ HCl and the molecular weight is 1 , 485 . 74 .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The solutions contain no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent ( except vancomycin ) or buffer and are intended for use only as a single - dose injection only with the ADD - Vantage Flexible Diluent Container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vancomycin is poorly absorbed after oral administration .
In subjects with normal kidney function , multiple intravenous dosing of 1 g of vancomycin ( 15 mg / kg ) infused over 60 minutes produces mean plasma concentrations of approximately 63 mcg / mL immediately after the completion of infusion , mean plasma concentrations of approximately 23 mcg / mL 2 hours after infusion , and mean plasma concentrations of approximately 8 mcg / mL 11 hours after the end of the infusion .
Multiple dosing of 500 mg infused over 30 minutes produces mean plasma concentrations of about 49 mcg / mL at the completion of infusion , mean plasma concentrations of about 19 mcg / mL 2 hours after infusion , and mean plasma concentrations of about 10 mcg / mL 6 hours after infusion .
The plasma concentrations during multiple dosing are similar to those after a single dose .
The mean elimination half - life of vancomycin from plasma is 4 to 6 hours in subjects with normal renal function .
In the first 24 hours , about 75 % of an administered dose of vancomycin is excreted in urine by glomerular filtration .
Mean plasma clearance is about 0 . 058 L / kg / h , and mean renal clearance is about 0 . 048 L / kg / h .
Renal dysfunction slows excretion of vancomycin .
In anephric patients , the average half - life of elimination is 7 . 5 days .
The distribution coefficient is from 0 . 3 to 0 . 43 L / kg .
There is no apparent metabolism of the drug .
About 60 % of an intraperitoneal dose of vancomycin administered during peritoneal dialysis is absorbed systemically in 6 hours .
Serum concentrations of about 10 mcg / mL are achieved by intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg / kg of vancomycin .
However , the safety and efficacy of the intraperitoneal use of vancomycin has not been established in adequate and well - controlled trials ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Total systemic and renal clearance of vancomycin may be reduced in the elderly .
Vancomycin is approximately 55 % serum protein bound as measured by ultrafiltration at vancomycin serum concentrations of 10 to 100 mcg / mL .
After IV administration of vancomycin , inhibitory concentrations are present in pleural , pericardial , ascitic , and synovial fluids ; in urine ; in peritoneal dialysis fluid ; and in atrial appendage tissue .
Vancomycin does not readily diffuse across normal meninges into the spinal fluid ; but , when the meninges are inflamed , penetration into the spinal fluid occurs .
MICROBIOLOGY The bactericidal action of vancomycin results primarily from inhibition of cell - wall biosynthesis .
In addition , vancomycin alters bacterial - cell - membrane permeability and RNA synthesis .
There is no cross - resistance between vancomycin and other antibiotics .
Vancomycin is not active in vitro against gram - negative bacilli , mycobacteria , or fungi .
Synergy The combination of vancomycin and an aminoglycoside acts synergistically in vitro against many strains of Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus bovis , enterococci , and the viridans group streptococci .
Vancomycin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Diphtheroids Enterococci ( e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis ) Staphylococci , including Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis ( including heterogeneous methicillin - resistant strains ) Streptococcus bovis Viridans group streptococci The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Vancomycin exhibits in vitro MIC ' s of 1 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of streptococci listed below and MIC ' s of 4 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of other listed microorganisms ; however , the safety and effectiveness of vancomycin in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic gram - positive microorganisms Listeria monocytogenes Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus pneumoniae ( including penicillin - resistant strains ) Streptococcus agalactiae Anaerobic gram - positive microorganisms Actinomyces species Lactobacillus species Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is indicated for the treatment of serious or severe infections caused by susceptible strains of methicillin - resistant ( β - lactam - resistant ) staphylococci .
It is indicated for penicillin - allergic patients , for patients who cannot receive or who have failed to respond to other drugs , including the penicillins or cephalosporins , and for infections caused by vancomycin - susceptible organisms that are resistant to other antimicrobial drugs .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is indicated for initial therapy when methicillin - resistant staphylococci are suspected , but after susceptibility data are available , therapy should be adjusted accordingly .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is effective in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis .
Its effectiveness has been documented in other infections due to staphylococci , including septicemia , bone infections , lower respiratory tract infections , skin and skin structure infections .
When staphylococcal infections are localized and purulent , antibiotics are used as adjuncts to appropriate surgical measures .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection has been reported to be effective alone or in combination with an aminoglycoside for endocarditis caused by S . viridans or S . bovis .
For endocarditis caused by enterococci ( e . g . , E . faecalis ) , vancomycin has been reported to be effective only in combination with an aminoglycoside .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection has been reported to be effective for the treatment of diphtheroid endocarditis .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection has been used successfully in combination with either rifampin , an aminoglycoside , or both in early - onset prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by S . epidermidis or diphtheroids .
Specimens for bacteriologic cultures should be obtained in order to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibilities to vancomycin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection and other antibacterial drugs , vancomycin hydrochloride for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
The parenteral form of vancomycin hydrochloride may be administered orally for treatment of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by C . difficile and for staphylococcal enterocolitis .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin hydrochloride alone is of unproven benefit for these indications .
Vancomycin is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to this antibiotic .
WARNINGS Infusion Reactions Rapid bolus administration ( e . g . , over several minutes ) may be associated with exaggerated hypotension , including shock and rarely cardiac arrest .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection should be administered in a diluted solution over a period of not less than 60 minutes to avoid rapid - infusion - related reactions .
Stopping the infusion usually results in prompt cessation of these reactions .
Nephrotoxicity Systemic vancomycin exposure may result in acute kidney injury ( AKI ) .
The risk of AKI increases as systemic exposure / serum levels increase .
Monitor renal function in all patients , especially patients with underlying renal impairment , patients with co - morbidities that predispose to renal impairment , and patients receiving concomitant therapy with a drug known to be nephrotoxic .
Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride for injection .
It may be transient or permanent .
It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive doses , who have an underlying hearing loss , or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent , such as an aminoglycoside .
Vancomycin should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency because the risk of toxicity is appreciably increased by high , prolonged blood concentrations .
Dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection must be adjusted for patients with renal dysfunction ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Severe Dermatologic Reactions Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullous dermatosis ( LABD ) have been reported in association with the use of vancomycin .
Cutaneous signs or symptoms reported include skin rashes , mucosal lesions , and blisters .
Discontinue vancomycin hydrochloride for injection at the first appearance of signs and symptoms of TEN , SJS , DRESS , AGEP , or LABD .
Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including vancomycin hydrochloride for injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis ( HORV ) Hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculitis , including permanent loss of vision , occurred in patients receiving intracameral or intravitreal administration of vancomycin during or after cataract surgery .
The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by the intracameral or the intravitreal route have not been established by adequate and well - controlled trials .
Vancomycin is not indicated for the prophylaxis of endophthalmitis .
PRECAUTIONS Clinically significant serum concentrations have been reported in some patients being treated for active C . difficile - induced pseudomembranous colitis after multiple oral doses of vancomycin .
Prolonged use of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
In rare instances , there have been reports of pseudomembranous colitis due to C . difficile developing in patients who received intravenous vancomycin hydrochloride for injection .
Serial tests of auditory function may be helpful in order to minimize the risk of ototoxicity .
Reversible neutropenia has been reported in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride for injection ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients who will undergo prolonged therapy with vancomycin hydrochloride for injection or those who are receiving concomitant drugs which may cause neutropenia should have periodic monitoring of the leukocyte count .
Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is irritating to tissue and must be given by a secure IV route of administration .
Pain , tenderness , and necrosis occur with intramuscular ( IM ) injection of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection or with inadvertent extravasation .
Thrombophlebitis may occur , the frequency and severity of which can be minimized by administering the drug slowly as a dilute solution ( 2 . 5 to 5 g / L ) and by rotation of venous access sites .
There have been reports that the frequency of infusion - related events ( including hypotension , flushing , erythema , urticaria , and pruritus ) increases with the concomitant administration of anesthetic agents .
Infusion - related events may be minimized by the administration of vancomycin as a 60 - minute infusion prior to anesthetic induction .
The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by the intrathecal ( intralumbar or intraventricular ) route or by the intraperitoneal route have not been established by adequate and well - controlled trials .
Reports have revealed that administration of sterile vancomycin by the intraperitoneal route during continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD ) has resulted in a syndrome of chemical peritonitis .
To date , this syndrome has ranged from cloudy dialysate alone to a cloudy dialysate accompanied by variable degrees of abdominal pain and fever .
This syndrome appears to be short - lived after discontinuation of intraperitoneal vancomycin .
Prescribing vancomycin hydrochloride for injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine - like flushing ( see Pediatric Use - PRECAUTIONS ) and anaphylactoid reactions ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Monitor renal function in patients receiving vancomycin and concurrent and / or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially neurotoxic and / or nephrotoxic drugs , such as amphotericin B , aminoglycosides , bacitracin , polymixin B , colistin , viomycin , or cisplatin .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Although no long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no mutagenic potential of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection was found in standard laboratory tests .
No definitive fertility studies have been performed .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with vancomycin .
It is not known whether vancomycin can affect reproduction capacity .
In a controlled clinical study , the potential ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects of vancomycin on infants were evaluated when the drug was administered to pregnant women for serious staphylococcal infections complicating intravenous drug abuse .
Vancomycin was found in cord blood .
No sensorineural hearing loss or nephrotoxicity attributable to vancomycin was noted .
One infant whose mother received vancomycin in the third trimester experienced conductive hearing loss that was not attributed to the administration of vancomycin .
Because the number of patients treated in this study was limited and vancomycin was administered only in the second and third trimesters , it is not known whether vancomycin causes fetal harm .
Vancomycin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Because of the potential for adverse events , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use In pediatric patients , it may be appropriate to confirm desired vancomycin serum concentrations .
Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine - like flushing in pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Geriatric Use The natural decrement of glomerular filtration with increasing age may lead to elevated vancomycin serum concentrations if dosage is not adjusted .
Vancomycin dosage schedules should be adjusted in elderly patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients Severe Dermatologic Reactions Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations .
Instruct patients to stop vancomycin hydrochloride for injection immediately and promptly seek medical attention at the first signs or symptoms of skin rash , mucosal lesions , and blisters ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including vancomycin hydrochloride for injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by vancomycin hydrochloride for injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Infusion - Related Events During or soon after rapid infusion of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection , patients may develop anaphylactoid reactions , including hypotension ( see ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , wheezing , dyspnea , urticaria , or pruritus .
Rapid infusion may also cause flushing of the upper body ( " red neck " ) or pain and muscle spasm of the chest and back .
These reactions usually resolve within 20 minutes but may persist for several hours .
Such events are infrequent if vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is given by a slow infusion over 60 minutes .
In studies of normal volunteers , infusion - related events did not occur when vancomycin hydrochloride for injection was administered at a rate of 10 mg / min or less .
Nephrotoxicity Systemic vancomycin exposure may result in acute kidney injury ( AKI ) .
The risk of AKI increases as systemic exposure / serum levels increase .
Additional risk factors for AKI in patients receiving vancomycin include receipt of concomitant drugs known to be nephrotoxic , in patients with pre - existing renal impairment , or with co - morbidities that predispose to renal impairment .
Interstitial nephritis has also been reported in patients receiving vancomycin .
Gastrointestinal Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Ototoxicity A few dozen cases of hearing loss associated with vancomycin have been reported .
Most of these patients had kidney dysfunction or a preexisting hearing loss or were receiving concomitant treatment with an ototoxic drug .
Vertigo , dizziness , and tinnitus have been reported rarely .
Hematopoietic Reversible neutropenia , usually starting 1 week or more after onset of therapy with vancomycin or after a total dosage of more than 25 g , has been reported for several dozen patients .
Neutropenia appears to be promptly reversible when vancomycin is discontinued .
Thrombocytopenia has rarely been reported .
Although a causal relationship has not been established , reversible agranulocytosis ( granulocytes < 500 / mm3 ) has been reported rarely .
Phlebitis Inflammation at the injection site has been reported .
Miscellaneous Patients have been reported to have had anaphylaxis , drug fever , nausea , chills , eosinophilia , rashes including exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( see WARNINGS , Severe Dermatologic Reactions ) , and vasculitis in association with the administration of vancomycin .
Chemical peritonitis has been reported following intraperitoneal administration ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Post Marketing Reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of vancomycin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullous dermatosis ( LABD ) ( see WARNINGS , Severe Dermatologic Reactions ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Supportive care is advised , with maintenance of glomerular filtration .
Vancomycin is poorly removed by dialysis .
Hemofiltration and hemoperfusion with polysulfone resin have been reported to result in increased vancomycin clearance .
The median lethal intravenous dose is 319 mg / kg in rats and 400 mg / kg in mice .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion - related events are related to both the concentration and the rate of administration of vancomycin .
Concentrations of no more than 5 mg / mL and rates of no more than 10 mg / min are recommended in adults ( see also age - specific recommendations ) .
In selected patients in need of fluid restriction , a concentration up to 10 mg / mL may be used ; use of such higher concentrations may increase the risk of infusion - related events .
An infusion rate of 10 mg / min or less is associated with fewer infusion - related events ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Infusion - related events may occur , however , at any rate or concentration .
The use of ADD - Vantage vials of vancomycin hydrochloride is indicated only when doses of 500 mg , 750 mg or 1 g are appropriate .
Patient factors , such as renal function and age , are critical in calculating correct dosage regimens ( see below ) .
If doses of 500 mg , 750 mg or 1 g are determined to be inappropriate , conventional vials of vancomycin hydrochloride should be used .
ADD - VANTAGE VIALS OF VANCOMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD NOT BE USED IN NEONATES , INFANTS , OR PEDIATRIC PATIENTS WHO REQUIRE DOSES OF LESS THAN 500 MG .
Patients with Normal Renal Function Adults The usual daily intravenous dose is 2 g divided either as 500 mg every 6 hours or 1 g every 12 hours .
Each dose should be administered at no more than 10 mg / min or over a period of at least 60 minutes , whichever is longer .
Other patient factors , such as age or obesity , may call for modification of the usual intravenous daily dose .
Pediatric patients The usual intravenous dosage of vancomycin is 10 mg / kg per dose given every 6 hours .
Each dose should be administered over a period of at least 60 minutes .
Close monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be warranted in these patients .
Neonates In pediatric patients up to the age of 1 month , the total daily intravenous dosage may be lower .
In neonates , an initial dose of 15 mg / kg is suggested , followed by 10 mg / kg every 12 hours for neonates in the 1 st week of life and every 8 hours thereafter up to the age of 1 month .
Each dose should be administered over 60 minutes .
In premature infants , vancomycin clearance decreases as postconceptional age decreases .
Therefore , longer dosing intervals may be necessary in premature infants .
Close monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin is recommended in these patients .
Patients with Impaired Renal Function and Elderly Patients Dosage adjustment must be made in patients with impaired renal function .
In premature infants and the elderly , greater dosage reductions than expected may be necessary because of decreased renal function .
Measurement of vancomycin serum concentrations can be helpful in optimizing therapy , especially in seriously ill patients with changing renal function .
Vancomycin serum concentrations can be determined by use of microbiologic assay , radioimmunoassay , fluorescence polarization immunoassay , fluorescence immunoassay , or high - pressure liquid chromatography .
If creatinine clearance can be measured or estimated accurately , the dosage for most patients with renal impairment can be calculated using the following table .
The dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection per day in mg is about 15 times the glomerular filtration rate in mL / min ( see following table ) .
DOSAGE TABLE FOR VANCOMYCIN IN PATIENTS WITH IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION ( Adapted from Moellering et al1 ) Creatinine Clearance mL / min Vancomycin Dose mg / 24 h 100 1 , 545 90 1 , 390 80 1 , 235 70 1 , 080 60 925 50 770 40 620 30 465 20 310 10 155 The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg / kg , even in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency .
The table is not valid for functionally anephric patients .
For such patients , an initial dose of 15 mg / kg of body weight should be given to achieve prompt therapeutic serum concentrations .
The dose required to maintain stable concentrations is 1 . 9 mg / kg / 24 h .
In patients with marked renal impairment , it may be more convenient to give maintenance doses of 250 to 1 , 000 mg once every several days rather than administering the drug on a daily basis .
In anuria , a dose of 1 , 000 mg every 7 to 10 days has been recommended .
When only serum creatinine is known , the following formula ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to calculate creatinine clearance .
Calculated creatinine clearances ( mL / min ) are only estimates .
The creatinine clearance should be measured promptly .
Men : [ Weight ( kg ) × ( 140 – age in years ) ] 72 × serum creatinine concentration ( mg / dL ) Women : 0 . 85 × above value The serum creatinine must represent a steady state of renal function .
Otherwise , the estimated value for creatinine clearance is not valid .
Such a calculated clearance is an overestimate of actual clearance in patients with conditions : ( 1 ) characterized by decreasing renal function , such as shock , severe heart failure , or oliguria ; ( 2 ) in which a normal relationship between muscle mass and total body weight is not present , such as in obese patients or those with liver disease , edema , or ascites ; and ( 3 ) accompanied by debilitation , malnutrition , or inactivity .
The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administration by the intrathecal ( intralumbar or intraventricular ) routes have not been established .
Intermittent infusion is the recommended method of administration .
Preparation and Stability Vancomycin Hydrochloride ADD - Vantage vials should be used only with approved diluents ( 5 % dextrose injection or 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection ) ( see INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ) .
Chemical Stability It has been shown that after reconstitution , the admixture solution prepared in either dextrose injection or sodium chloride injection may be stored for 24 hours at room temperature or in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency .
However , this information is not intended to suggest that it is acceptable practice to administer such an admixture well after the time of preparation .
Admixtures should be prepared as close to the time of administration as is reasonable .
Intermittent infusion is the recommended method of administration .
The 500 mg ADD - Vantage vial should be joined with at least a 100 mL ADD - Vantage flexible diluent container , the 750 mg and the 1 g ADD - Vantage vial should be joined only to a 250 mL ADD - Vantage flexible diluent container .
The desired dose diluted in this manner should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of at least 60 minutes .
Compatibility with Intravenous Fluids Solutions that are diluted with 5 % Dextrose Injection or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency .
Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause physical instability when it is mixed with other compounds .
Mixtures of solutions of vancomycin and beta - lactam antibiotics have been shown to be physically incompatible .
The likelihood of precipitation increases with higher concentrations of vancomycin .
It is recommended to adequately flush the intravenous lines between the administration of these antibiotics .
It is also recommended to dilute solutions of vancomycin to 5 mg / mL or less .
Although intravitreal injection is not an approved route of administration for vancomycin , precipitation has been reported after intravitreal injection of vancomycin and ceftazidime for endophthalmitis using different syringes and needles .
The precipitates dissolved gradually , with complete clearing of the vitreous cavity over two months and with improvement of visual acuity .
Parenteral drug products should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution or container permits .
For Oral Administration NOTE : For information only .
ADD - Vantage Vials cannot be used to supply vancomycin for this purpose .
Oral vancomycin is used in treating antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C . difficile and for staphylococcal enterocolitis .
Vancomycin is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections .
The usual adult total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g given in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dose in children is 40 mg / kg of body weight in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g .
The appropriate dose may be diluted in 1 oz of water and given to the patients to drink .
Common flavoring syrups may be added to the solution to improve the taste for oral administration .
The diluted solution may be administered via a nasogastric tube .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Use Vial in ADD - Vantage Flexible Diluent Container To Open : Peel overwrap at corner and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows : • To remove the breakaway vial cap , swing the pull ring over the top of the vial and pull down far enough to start the opening ( See Figure 1 . )
, then pull straight up to remove the cap .
( See Figure 2 . )
NOTE : Do not access vial with syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • To remove the vial port cover , grasp the tab on the pull ring , pull up to break the tie membrane , then pull back to remove the cover .
( See Figure 3 . )
• Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no further .
THE VIAL MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL .
This occurs approximately 1 / 2 turn ( 180 ° ) after the first audible click .
( See Figure 4 . )
The clicking sound does not assure a seal ; the vial must be turned as far as it will go .
NOTE : Once vial is seated , do not attempt to remove .
( See Figure 4 . )
• Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further in the direction of assembly .
• Label appropriately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] To Reconstitute the Drug : • Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial .
• With the other hand , push the drug vial down into the container telescoping the walls of the container .
Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls of the container .
( See Figure 5 . )
• Pull the inner cap from the drug vial .
( See Figure 6 . )
Verify that the rubber stopper has been pulled out , allowing the drug and diluent to mix .
• Mix container contents thoroughly and use within the specified time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparation for Administration : ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • Confirm the activation and admixture of vial contents .
• Check for leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
• Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• Lift the free end of the hanger loop on the bottom of the vial , breaking the two tie strings .
Bend the loop outward to lock it in the upright position , then suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible containers in series connections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP is supplied as a sterile powder in single - dose ADD - Vantage vials that contain either 500 mg , 750 mg or 1 g . Unit of Sale Fill NDC 0409 - 6534 - 01 Tray of 10 single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials 500 mg / vial NDC 0409 - 6531 - 01 Tray of 10 single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials 750 mg / vial NDC 0409 - 6535 - 01 Tray of 10 single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials 1 g / vial Prior to reconstitution , store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY In animal studies , hypotension and bradycardia occurred in dogs receiving an intravenous infusion of vancomycin hydrochloride 25 mg / kg , at a concentration of 25 mg / mL and an infusion rate of 13 . 3 mL / min .
REFERENCES 1 .
Moellering RC , Krogstad DJ , Greenblatt DJ : Vancomycin therapy in patients with impaired renal function : A nomogram for dosage .
Ann Inter Med 1981 ; 94 : 343 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 0982 - 8 . 0 Revised : 10 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 750 mg Vial Label Single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vial Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP Equivalent to 750 mg / vial Vancomycin For Intravenous Use .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 750 mg Vial Tray 10 Single - Dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials Sterile Powder Rx only NDC 0409 - 6531 - 01 Contains 10 of NDC 0409 - 6531 - 11 Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP Equivalent to 750 mg / vial Vancomycin For Intravenous Use .
MUST BE FURTHER DILUTED BEFORE USE .
SEE INSERT .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 g Vial Label Single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vial Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Equivalent to 1 g / vial Vancomycin Distributed by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 g Vial Tray 10 Single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials Sterile Powder Rx only NDC 0409 - 6535 - 01 Contains 10 of NDC 0409 - 6535 - 11 Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP For Intravenous Use IMPORTANT : Read insert for precautions and directions before use .
Equivalent to 1 g / vial Vancomycin Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Vial Label Single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vial Sterile Powder Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Equivalent to 500 mg / vial Vancomycin Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Vial Tray 10 Single - dose ADD - Vantage ® Vials Sterile Powder Rx only NDC 0409 - 6534 - 01 Contains 10 of NDC 0409 - 6534 - 11 Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection , USP For Intravenous Use .
Equivalent to 500 mg / vial Vancomycin Important – Read insert for precautions and directions before use .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
