Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • • temporary relief of irritation and burning aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only When using this product • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • bleeding occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • open the lid on the top of the wipes pouch • • peel back wipes seal , remove completely and discard • • grab the top wipe at the edge of the center fold and pull out of pouch • • close lid after each use to retain moisture • • adults : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area • • use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying topical hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • • for best results , flush only one or two wipes at a time store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , anhydrous citric acid , cocamidopropyl betaine , cocamidopropyl dimethylamine , diazolidinyl urea , dichloroacetic , dimethylaminopropylamine , glycerin , methylparaben , monochloroacetic acid , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , sodium glycolate , water Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 800 - 99 PrepH or 1 - 800 - 997 - 7374 Additional information Other Uses • • for vaginal care – cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• • for use as a moist compress – if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold new wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 For most recent product information , visit www . preparationh . com Trademarks owned or licensed by GSK © 2022 GSK or licensor Principal Display Panel PREPARATIONH Medicated Wipes HEMORRHOIDAL WIPES WITH WITCH HAZEL gentle , everyday cleansing to reduce irritation FLUSHABLE & SEPTIC SAFE • • Cools , Soothes and Comforts • • Convenient , Easy to Use • • For Hemorrhoidal and Vaginal Care WITH ALOE 3 60 COUNT POUCHES 180 MEDICATED WIPES 6 x 5 in .
( 15 . 2 x 12 . 7 cm ) 000077729 Front Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
