Active Ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 02 % ( 0 . 01 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use Aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings for this product Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older : • use twice a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • vigorously swish 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients water , alcohol ( 8 % ) , hydrogen peroxide , poloxamer 407 , sodium saccharin , sucralose , menthol , phosphoric acid , disodium phosphate , flavor Other information • store at room temperature ( 59º - 77ºF ) Contains peroxide which releases oxygen while whitening .
This may cause the bottle to inflate slightly or release air when opened .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine HealthyWhite Vibrant Anticavity Mouthrinse To open : remove tamper evident neckband .
Squeeze both tabs at base of cap while turning the cap until loose .
To close : Place cap back on bottle and turn cap until it clicks twice and feels secure Distributed by Liberty Procurement Co .
Inc .
Union , NJ 07083 USA www . facevalues . com SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Or Your Money Back principal display panel CORE VALUES Compare to Listerine Healty White Vibrant Advanced WHITENING ANTICAVITY MOUTHRINSE • Begins working on contact • Safely whitens teeth • Kills germs that cause bad breath 5 DAYS to Whiter Teeth Fresh Mint IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use .
946 mL ( 32 FL OZ ) Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
