Active Ingredients : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Lidocaine HCL 0 . 5 % Purpose : First aid antiseptic , external analgesic Uses : First aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with : minor cuts , scrapes , burns Warning : For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes , in large quantities , over raw blistered areas , or on deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , for more than one week Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Clean affected area , Apply small amount not more than 3 times daily .
May be covered with a sterile bandage .
Other Information : Store at room temperature LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20130301 Genuine First Aid Burn Cream Antiseptic Pain Relief With Aloe Net Wt 0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for Genuine First Aid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : Purpose Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 40 % ... First Aid Antiseptic Use : For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warning : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur .
Consult a physician immediately .
Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body .
Directions : Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive Ingredient : Purified water LOT / EXP : Made in CHINA 20130301 Antiseptic Towelette Genuine First Aid LLC , Clearwater FL 33755 www . GenuineFirstAid . com GENUINE FIRST AID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient : ......... Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Uses : To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes ; burns Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage Other information : Store at room temperature .
Genuine Triple Antibiotic First Aid Ointment To Help Prevent Infection Each Gram Contains : Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Net Wt .
0 . 5 g ; ( 1 / 64 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for GENUINE FIRST AID .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Small Cuts and Burns 10 Adhesive Plastic Bandages 3 / 4 " x3 " 10 Junior Plastic Bandages 3 / 8 " x1 - 1 / 2 " 5 Adhesive Plastic Bandages 1 " x3 " 1 Knuckle Fabric Bandage 10 Adhesive Spot Bandages 7 / 8 " x7 / 8 " 1 Fingertip Fabric Bandage 1 Elbow / Knee Adhesive Bandage 1 Burn Cream 5 Antiseptic Towelettes 1 Antibiotic Ointment 2 Sterile Gauge Pads 2 " x2 " 10 Cotton Tipped Applicators Manufactured in China for : Acme United Corporation 60 Round Hill Road Fairfield , CT 06824 www . acmeunited . com © 2009 Acme United Corporation PhysiciansCare ® and are registered Trademarks of Acme United Corporation Physicians CARE Copyright C 2009 Genuine First Aid LLC .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
