DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 6 ( 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 308 mOsmol / liter pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 154 ; Chloride 154 Sodium Chloride Injection USP is sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC , or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a homogenous blend of polypropylene and thermoplastic modifier specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
Addition of medication should be accomplished using complete aseptic technique .
The closure system has two ports ; one for the administration set and the other is a medication addition site .
Each port has a tamper evident cover .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium Chloride Injection USP provides electrolytes and is a source of water for hydration .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This intravenous solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of electrolytes and water for hydration .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP is indicated for extracellular fluid replacement , treatment of metabolic alkalosis in the presence of fluid loss and mild sodium depletion .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP is also indicated for use as a priming solution in hemodialysis procedures and may be used to initiate and terminate blood transfusions without hemolyzing red blood cells .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP is also indicated as a pharmaceutic aid and diluent for the infusion of compatible drug additives .
Refer to prescribing information accompanying additive drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This solution is contraindicated where the administration of sodium or chloride could be clinically detrimental .
WARNINGS The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
Infusion of isotonic ( 0 . 9 % ) sodium chloride during or immediately after surgery may result in excessive sodium retention .
Use the patient ’ s circulatory system status as a guide .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require tailoring of the electrolyte pattern , in these or alternative solutions .
This solution should be used with care in patients with hypervolemia , renal insufficiency , urinary tract obstruction , or impending or frank cardiac decompensation .
Extraordinary electrolyte losses such as may occur during protracted nasogastric suction , vomiting , diarrhea or gastrointestinal fistula drainage may necessitate additional electrolyte supplementation .
Additional essential electrolytes , minerals and vitamins should be supplied as needed .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Care should be exercised in administering solutions containing sodium to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
Infusion of more than one liter of isotonic ( 0 . 9 % ) sodium chloride per day may supply more sodium and chloride than normally found in serum , and can exceed normal tolerance , resulting in hypernatremia ; this may also cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration and periodically during administration .
Do not use plastic container in series connection .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Sodium Chloride Injection USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection USP .
It is also not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Chloride Injection USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of sodium chloride injections in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of electrolyte solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ’ s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only .
Dosage is to be directed by a physician and is dependent upon age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
In the average adult , daily requirements of sodium and chloride are met by the infusion of one liter of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ( 154 mEq each of sodium and chloride ) .
There is no specific pediatric dose .
The dose is dependent on weight , clinical condition and laboratory results .
Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference text .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP may also be administered intravascularly as a priming fluid in hemodialysis procedures .
When Sodium Chloride Injection USP is used as a diluent for infusion of compatible drug additives , refer to dosage and administration information accompanying additive drugs .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Chloride Injection USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in Plastic Containers packaged 12 per case .
NDC REF Size 0264 - 7800 - 09 E8000 1000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Directions for Use of Plastic Container Caution : Do not use plastic container in series connection .
To Open Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
NOTE : Before use , perform the following checks : Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Preparation for Administration • Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
To Add Medication Before Solution Administration • Prepare medication site by removing the additive port closure .
Swab the exposed medication site before puncturing .
• Using syringe with 18 - 22 Ga . needle , puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close clamp on the set .
• Prepare medication site by removing the additive port closure .
Swab the exposed medication site before puncturing .
• Using syringe with 18 - 22 Ga . needle of appropriate length ( at least 5 / 8 inch ) , puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
Initiated : January 2014 LD - 436 - 2 Y36 - 002 - 859 Package Insert Rx only B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 www . bbraun . com Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP REF E8000 NDC 0264 - 7800 - 09 1000 mL Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with HCl NF pH : 5 . 6 ( 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 308 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 154 Cl – 154 Sterile .
Single dose container .
For intravenous use only .
WARNINGS : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Not made with natural rubber latex , DEHP , or PVC .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 www . bbraun . com Made in USA Y38 - 000 - 059 LD - 362 - 6 ADD SET EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
