BOXED WARNING Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
DESCRIPTION Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen is supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Hydrocodone bitartrate is an opioid analgesic and antitussive and occurs as fine , white crystals or as a crystalline powder .
It is affected by light .
The chemical name is 4 , 5α - Epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one tartrate ( 1 : 1 ) hydrate ( 2 : 5 ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C18H21NO3 • C4H6O6 • 2 ½ H2O M . W . = 494 . 49 Acetaminophen , 4 ´ - Hydroxyacetanilide , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C8H9NO2 M . W . = 151 . 16 Each tablet contains : Hydrocodone Bitartrate ......
5 mg Acetaminophen .................. 325 mg In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , stearic acid and sugar spheres which are composed of starch derived from corn , sucrose , and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
Most of these involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle .
The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known , although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system .
In addition to analgesia , narcotics may produce drowsiness , changes in mood and mental clouding .
The analgesic action of acetaminophen involves peripheral influences , but the specific mechanism is as yet undetermined .
Antipyretic activity is mediated through hypothalamic heat regulating centers .
Acetaminophen inhibits prostaglandin synthetase .
Therapeutic doses of acetaminophen have negligible effects on the cardiovascular or respiratory systems ; however , toxic doses may cause circulatory failure and rapid , shallow breathing .
Pharmacokinetics : The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Hydrocodone : Following a 10 mg oral dose of hydrocodone administered to five adult male subjects , the mean peak concentration was 23 . 6 ± 5 . 2 ng / mL .
Maximum serum levels were achieved at 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours and the half - life was determined to be 3 . 8 ± 0 . 3 hours .
Hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism including O - demethylation , N - demethylation and 6 - keto reduction to the corresponding 6 - α - and 6 - β - hydroxymetabolites .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Acetaminophen : Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen .
Patients known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross - sensitivity to hydrocodone .
WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self - harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen - containing products .
The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day , even if they feel well .
Hypersensitivity / anaphylaxis : There have been post - marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen .
Clinical signs included swelling of the face , mouth , and throat , respiratory distress , urticaria , rash , pruritus , and vomiting .
There were infrequent reports of life - threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention .
Instruct patients to discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms .
Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy .
Respiratory Depression : At high doses or in sensitive patients , hydrocodone may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem respiratory center .
Hydrocodone also affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm , and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure : The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions : The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
PRECAUTIONS General : Special Risk Patients : As with any narcotic analgesic agent , hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ’ s disease , prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind .
Cough Reflex : Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease .
Information for Patients / Caregivers : · Do not take Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP if you are allergic to any of its ingredients .
· If you develop signs of allergy such as a rash or difficulty breathing stop taking Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP and contact your healthcare provider immediately .
· Do not take more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day .
Call your doctor if you took more than the recommended dose .
Hydrocodone , like all narcotics , may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery ; patients should be cautioned accordingly .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and should be avoided .
Hydrocodone may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Laboratory Tests : In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions : Patients receiving other narcotics , antihistamines , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
When combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether hydrocodone or acetaminophen have a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal .
Labor and Delivery : As with all narcotics , administration of this product to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
Nursing Mothers : Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known .
It is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone and acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of hydrocodone bitartrate 5 mg and acetaminophen 500 mg did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea and vomiting .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients , and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include : Central Nervous System : Drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , psychic dependence , mood changes .
Gastrointestinal System : Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may produce constipation .
Genitourinary System : Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates .
Respiratory Depression : Hydrocodone bitartrate may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem respiratory center ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Special Senses : Cases of hearing impairment or permanent loss have been reported predominantly in patients with chronic overdose .
Dermatological : Skin rash , pruritus .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are classified as a Schedule III controlled substance .
Abuse and Dependence : Psychic dependence , physical dependence , and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics ; therefore , this product should be prescribed and administered with caution .
However , psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used for a short time for the treatment of pain .
Physical dependence , the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome , assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued narcotic use , although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy .
Tolerance , in which increasingly large doses are required in order to produce the same degree of analgesia , is manifested initially by a shortened duration of analgesic effect , and subsequently by decreases in the intensity of analgesia .
The rate of development of tolerance varies among patients .
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from hydrocodone or acetaminophen .
Signs and Symptoms : Hydrocodone : Serious overdose with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
Acetaminophen : In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and coagulation defects may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
Treatment : A single or multiple drug overdose with hydrocodone and acetaminophen is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered .
For hydrocodone overdose , primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics , including hydrocodone .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance , and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
A narcotic antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
Gastric decontamination with activated charcoal should be administered just prior to N - acetylcysteine ( NAC ) to decrease systemic absorption if acetaminophen ingestion is known or suspected to have occurred within a few hours of presentation .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained immediately if the patient presents 4 hours or more after ingestion to assess potential risk of hepatotoxicity ; acetaminophen levels drawn less than 4 hours post - ingestion may be misleading .
To obtain the best possible outcome , NAC should be administered as soon as possible where impending or evolving liver injury is suspected .
Intravenous NAC may be administered when circumstances preclude oral administration .
Vigorous supportive therapy is required in severe intoxication .
Procedures to limit the continuing absorption of the drug must be readily performed since the hepatic injury is dose dependent and occurs early in the course of intoxication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
However , it should be kept in mind that tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related .
The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 8 tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets USP , contain hydrocodone bitartrate 5 mg and acetaminophen 325 mg .
They are supplied as white with orange specks , capsule - shaped , bisected tablets , debossed WATSON on one side and 3202 on the other side , in bottles of 100 .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
A Schedule CIII Narcotic .
Mfd .
for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Mfd .
by : Mikart , Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30318 Rev . 06 / 2011 Code 667D00 PACKAGE LABEL - HYDROCODONE / APAP C - III 5 / 325 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
