To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of minocycline hydrochloride tablets and other antibacterial drugs , minocycline hydrochloride tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Minocycline hydrochloride , is a semisynthetic derivative of tetracycline , 4 , 7 - Bis ( dimethylamino ) ‑ 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - tetrahydroxy - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 ‑ naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C23H27N3O7 · HCl M . W . 493 . 94 Minocycline hydrochloride tablets for oral administration contain minocycline HCl equivalent to 50 mg , 75 mg or 100 mg of minocycline .
In addition , 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose NF , Lactose Anhydrous NF , Povidone USP , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide NF , Magnesium Stearate NF , and Sodium Starch Glycolate NF .
The 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg tablets also contain Opadry White which contains : Titanium Dioxide USP , Hypromellose Type 2910 USP , Polyethylene Glycol 400 NF , and Polysorbate 80 NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following a single dose of one 100 mg tablet of minocycline hydrochloride administered to 28 normal fasting adult volunteers , maximum serum concentrations were attained in 1 to 3 hours ( average 1 . 71 hours ) and ranged from 491 . 71 to 1292 . 70 ng / mL ( average 758 . 29 ng / mL ) .
The serum half - life in the normal volunteers ranged from 11 . 38 to 24 . 31 hours ( average 17 . 03 hours ) .
When minocycline hydrochloride tablets were given concomitantly with a meal , which included dairy products , the extent of absorption of minocycline hydrochloride tablets was slightly decreased ( 6 % ) .
The peak plasma concentrations were slightly decreased ( 12 % ) and delayed by 1 . 09 hours when administered with food , compared to dosing under fasting conditions .
Minocycline HCl may be administered with or without food .
In previous studies with other minocycline dosage forms , the minocycline serum half - life ranged from 11 to 16 hours in 7 patients with hepatic dysfunction , and from 18 to 69 hours in 5 patients with renal dysfunction .
The urinary and fecal recovery of minocycline when administered to 12 normal volunteers was one - half to one - third that of other tetracyclines .
Microbiology The tetracyclines are primarily bacteriostatic and are thought to exert their antimicrobial effect by the inhibition of protein synthesis .
The tetracyclines , including minocycline , have similar antimicrobial spectra of activity against a wide range of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
Cross - resistance of these organisms to tetracycline is common .
Minocycline has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : AEROBIC GRAM - POSITIVE MICROORGANISMS Because many strains of the following gram - positive microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility testing are especially recommended .
Tetracycline antibiotics should not be used for streptococcal diseases unless the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible .
Tetracyclines are not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection .
Bacillus anthracisa Listeria monocytogenesa Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus pneumoniae AEROBIC GRAM - NEGATIVE MICROORGANISMS Bartonella bacilliformis Brucella species Calymmatobacterium granulomatis Campylobacter fetus Francisella tularensis Haemophilus ducreyi Vibrio cholerae Yersinia pestis Because many strains of the following groups of gram - negative microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility tests are especially recommended .
Acinetobacter species Enterobacter aerogenes Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella species Neisseria gonorrhoeae a Neisseria meningitidis a “ OTHER ” MICROORGANISMS Actinomyces speciesa Borrelia recurrentis Chlamydia psittaci Chlamydia trachomatis Clostridium species a Entamoeba species Fusobacterium nucleatum subspecies fusiformea Mycobacterium marinum Mycoplasma pneumoniae Propionibacterium acnes Rickettsiae Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum a Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue a Ureaplasma urealyticum a When penicillin is contraindicated , tetracyclines are alternative drugs in the treatment of infections caused by the cited microorganisms .
Susceptibility Tests Susceptibility testing should be performed with tetracycline since it predicts susceptibility to minocycline .
However , certain organisms ( e . g . , some staphylococci , and Acinetobacter species ) may be more susceptible to minocycline and doxycycline than to tetracycline .
Dilution techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method1 , 3 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of tetracycline powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For testing aerobic gram - negative microorganisms ( Enterobacteriaceae ) , Acinetobacter species and Staphylococcus aereus : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 4 Susceptible ( S ) 8 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 16 Resistant ( R ) For testing Haemophilusinfluenzaband Streptococcus pneumoniac : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 2 Susceptible ( S ) 4 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 8 Resistant ( R ) bThese interpretative standards are applicable only to broth microdilution susceptibility testing with Haemophilus influenzae using Haemophilus Test Medium . 1 cThese interpretative standards are applicable only to broth microdilution susceptibility testing using cation - adjusted Muller - Hinton broth with 2 – 5 % lysed horse blood . 1 For testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaed : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 0 . 25 Susceptible ( S ) 0 . 5 - 1 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 2 Resistant ( R ) dThese interpretative standards are applicable only to agar dilution susceptibility testing using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplements . 1 A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard tetracycline powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 0 . 5 - 2 Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212 8 - 32 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 25 - 1 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 4 - 32 Streptococcus pneumoniae ATCC 49619 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 0 . 25 - 1 Diffusion techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure2 , 3 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 mcg tetracycline ( class disk ) or 30 mcg minocycline to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to minocycline .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 mcg tetracycline or minocycline disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For testing aerobic gram - negative microorganisms ( Enterobacteriaceae ) , Acinetobacter species and Staphylococcus aureus : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 19 Susceptible ( S ) 15 - 18 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) For testing Haemophilus influenzaee : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 29 Susceptible ( S ) 26 - 28 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 25 Resistant ( R ) e These zone diameter standards are applicable only to susceptibility testing with Haemophilus influenzae using Haemophilus Test Medium and 30 mcg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaef : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 38 Susceptible ( S ) 31 - 37 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 30 Resistant ( R ) f These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing using GC agar and 1 % growth supplements , and a 30 mcg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Streptococcus pneumoniaeg : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 23 Susceptible ( S ) 19 - 22 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 18 Resistant ( R ) gThese interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing using Muller - Hinton agar adjusted with 5 % sheep blood and a 30 mcg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Vibrio choleraeh : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 19 Susceptible ( S ) 15 - 18 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) h These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing performed with a 30 mcg tetracycline disk . 2 Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for tetracycline .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 mcg tetracycline or minocycline disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter Range ( mm ) Tetracycline Minocycline Escherichia coli ATCC25922 18 - 25 19 - 25 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 24 - 30 25 - 30 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 14 - 22 --- Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 30 - 42 --- Streptococcus pneumoniae ATCC 49619 27 - 31 --- INDICATIONS AND USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms : • • Rocky Mountain spotted fever , typhus fever and the typhus group , Q fever , rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae .
• • Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae .
• • Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis .
• • Psittacosis ( Ornithosis ) due to Chlamydia psittaci .
• • Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated , as judged by immunofluorescence .
• • Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis .
• • Nongonococcal urethritis , endocervical , or rectal infections in adults caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum or Chlamydia trachomatis • • Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis .
• • Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi • • Plague due to Yersinia pestis .
• • Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis .
• • Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae .
• • Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus .
• • Brucellosis due to Brucella species ( in conjunction with streptomycin ) .
• • Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis • • Granuloma inguinale caused by Calymmatobacterium granulomatis .
Minocycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram - negative microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : • • Escherichia coli .
• • Enterobacter aerogenes .
• • Shigella species .
• • Acinetobacter species .
• • Respiratory tract infection caused by Haemophilus influenzae .
• • Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections cause by Kiebsiella species .
Minocycline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram - positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : • • Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae • • Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus .
( Note : Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection ) .
When penicillin is contraindicated , minocycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections : • • Uncomplicated urethritis in men due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae and for the treatment of other gonococcal infections .
• • Infections in women caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
• • Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum .
• • Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue .
• • Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes .
• • Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis .
• • Vincent ’ s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme .
• • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii .
• • Infections caused by Clostridium species .
In acute intestinal amebiasis , minocycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides .
In severe acne , minocycline may be useful adjunctive therapy .
Oral minocycline is indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic carriers of Neisseria meningitidis to eliminate the meningococci from the nasopharynx .
In order to preserve the usefulness of minocycline in the treatment of asymptomatic meningococcal carriers , diagnostic laboratory procedures , including serotyping and susceptibility testing , should be performed to establish the carrier state and the correct treatment .
It is recommended that the prophylactic use of minocycline be reserved for situations in which the risk of meningococcal meningitis is high .
Oral minocycline is not indicated for the treatment of meningococcal infection .
Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted , limited clinical data show that oral minocycline hydrochloride has been used successfully in the treatment of infections caused by Mycobacterium marinum .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness ofminocycline hydrochloride tablets and other antibacterial drugs , minocycline hydrochloride tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or to any of the components of the product formulation .
WARNINGS MINOCYCLINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS , LIKE OTHER TETRACYCLINE CLASS ANTIBIOTICS , CAN CAUSE FETAL HARM WHEN ADMINISTERED TO A PREGNANT WOMAN .
IF ANY TETRACYCLINE IS USED DURING PREGNANCY OR IF THE PATIENT BECOMES PREGNANT WHILE TAKING THESE DRUGS , THE PATIENT SHOULD BE APPRISED OF THE POTENTIAL HAZARD TO THE FETUS .
THE USE OF DRUGS OF THE TETRACYCLINE CLASS DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT ( LAST HALF OF PREGNANCY , INFANCY , AND CHILDHOOD TO THE AGE OF 8 YEARS ) MAY CAUSE PERMANENT DISCOLORATION OF THE TEETH ( YELLOW – GRAY - BROWN ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
TETRACYCLINE DRUGS , THEREFORE , SHOULD NOT BE USED DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT UNLESS OTHER DRUGS ARE NOT LIKELY TO BE EFFECTIVE OR ARE CONTRAINDICATED .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in the fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every six hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
Drug rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) including fatal cases have been reported with minocycline use .
If this syndrome is recognized , the drug should be discontinued immediately .
The anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
Under such conditions , monitoring of creatinine and BUN is recommended , and the total daily dosage should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to systemic accumulation of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
This has been reported with minocycline .
Central nervous system side effects including light - headedness , dizziness , or vertigo have been reported with minocycline therapy .
Patients who experience these symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy .
These symptoms may disappear during therapy and usually disappear rapidly when the drug is discontinued .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including minocycline hydrochloride , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General : As with other antibiotic preparations , use of this drug may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , the antibiotic should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) in adults has been associated with the use of tetracyclines .
The usual clinical manifestations are headache and blurred vision .
Bulging fontanels have been associated with the use of tetracyclines in infants .
While both of these conditions and related symptoms usually resolve after discontinuation of the tetracycline , the possibility for permanent sequelae exists .
Hepatotoxicity has been reported with minocycline ; therefore , minocycline should be used with caution in patients with hepatic dysfunction and in conjunction with other hepatotoxic drugs .
Incision and drainage or other surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy when indicated .
Prescribing minocycline hydrochloride tablets in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information For Patients Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs , and treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema .
This reaction has been reported with use of minocycline .
Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
Concurrent use of tetracycline with oral contraceptives may render oral contraceptives less effective ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including minocycline hydrochloride tablets should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When minocycline hydrochloride tablets are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by minocycline hydrochloride tablets or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Unused supplies of tetracycline antibiotics should be discarded by the expiration date .
Laboratory Tests In venereal disease when coexistent syphilis is suspected , a dark - field examination should be done before treatment is started and the blood serology repeated monthly for at least four months .
Periodic laboratory evaluations of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal , and hepatic , should be performed .
Drug Interactions Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium , or magnesium , and iron - containing preparations .
The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
Concurrent use of tetracyclines with oral contraceptives may render oral contraceptives less effective .
Administration of isotretinoin should be avoided shortly before , during , and shortly after minocycline therapy .
Each drug alone has been associated with pseudotumor cerebri ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Increased risk of ergotism when ergot alkaloids or their derivatives are given with tetracyclines .
Drug and / or Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Dietary administration of minocycline in long term tumorigenicity studies in rats resulted in evidence of thyroid tumor production .
Minocycline has also been found to produce thyroid hyperplasia in rats and dogs .
In addition , there has been evidence of oncogenic activity in rats in studies with a related antibiotic , oxytetracycline ( i . e . , adrenal and pituitary tumors ) .
Likewise , although mutagenicity studies of minocycline have not been conducted , positive results in in vitro mammalian cell assays ( i . e . , mouse lymphoma and Chinese hamster lung cells ) have been reported for related antibiotics ( tetracycline hydrochloride and oxytetracycline ) .
Segment I ( fertility and general reproduction ) studies have provided evidence that minocycline impairs fertility in male rats .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D ( see WARNINGS ) .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcome regardless of drug exposure .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies on the use of minocycline in pregnant women .
Minocycline , like other tetracycline - class antibiotics , crosses the placenta and may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Rare spontaneous reports of congenital anomalies including limb reduction have been reported in post - marketing experience .
Only limited information is available regarding these reports ; therefore , no conclusion on causal association can be established .
If minocycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : ( see WARNINGS ) .
Labor and Delivery The effect of tetracyclines on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers Tetracyclines are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from the tetracyclines , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use Minocycline is not recommended for use in children below 8 years of age unless the expected benefits of therapy outweigh the risks ( see WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of oral minocycline did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Due to oral minocycline ’ s virtually complete absorption , side effects to the lower bowel , particularly diarrhea , have been infrequent .
The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving tetracyclines .
Body as a whole : Fever , and discoloration of secretions .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia , stomatitis , glossitis , dysphagia , enamel hypoplasia , enterocolitis , pseudomembranous colitis , pancreatitis , inflammatory lesions ( with monilial overgrowth ) in the oral and anogenital regions .
Instances of esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients taking the tetracycline - class antibiotics in capsule and tablet form .
Most of these patients took the medication immediately before going to bed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Genitourinary : Vulvovaginitis .
Hepatic toxicity : Hyperbilirubinemia , hepatic cholestasis , increases in liver enzymes , fatal hepatic failure , and jaundice .
Hepatitis , including autoimmune hepatitis , and liver failure have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Skin : Alopecia , erythema nodosum , hyperpigmentation of nails , pruritus , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and vasculitis .
Maculopapular and erythematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported .
Fixed drug eruptions have been reported .
Lesions occurring on the glans penis have caused balanitis .
Erythema multiforme and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been reported .
Photosensitivity is discussed above ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pigmentation of the skin and mucous membranes has been reported .
Respiratory : Cough , dyspnea , bronchospasm , exacerbation of asthma , and pneumonitis .
Renal toxicity : Interstitial nephritis .
Elevations in BUN have been reported and are apparently dose related ( see WARNINGS ) .
Reversible acute renal failure has been reported .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , arthritis , bone discoloration , myalgia , joint stiffness , and joint swelling .
Hypersensitivity reactions : Urticaria , angioneurotic edema , polyarthralgia , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reaction ( including shock and fatalities ) , anaphylactoid purpura , myocarditis , pericarditis , exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus and pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia have been reported .
A transient lupus - like syndrome and serum sickness - like reactions also have been reported .
Blood : Agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , neutropenia , pancytopenia , and eosinophilia have been reported .
Central Nervous System : Convulsions , dizziness , hypesthesia , paresthesia , sedation , and vertigo .
Bulging fontanels in infants and benign intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) in adults have been reported ( see PRE ‑ CAUTIONS — General ) .
Headache has also been reported .
Other : Thyroid cancer has been reported in the post - marketing setting in association with minocycline products .
When minocycline therapy is given over prolonged periods , monitoring for signs of thyroid cancer should be considered .
When given over prolonged periods , tetracyclines have been reported to produce brown - black microscopic discoloration of the thyroid gland .
Cases of abnormal thyroid function have been reported .
Tooth discoloration in children less than 8 years of age , and also in adults , has been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Oral cavity discoloration ( including tongue , lip , and gum ) have been reported .
Tinnitus and decreased hearing have been reported in patients on minocycline hydrochloride .
The following syndromes have been reported .
In some cases involving these syndromes , death has been reported .
As with other serious adverse reactions , if any of these syndromes are recognized , the drug should be discontinued immediately : Hypersensitivity syndrome consisting of cutaneous reaction ( such as rash or exfoliative dermatitis ) , eosinophilia , and one or more of the following : hepatitis , pneumonitis , nephritis , myocarditis , and pericarditis .
Fever and lymphadenopathy may be present .
Lupus - like syndrome consisting of positive antinuclear antibody ; arthralgia , arthritis , joint stiffness , or joint swelling ; and one or more of the following : fever , myalgia , hepatitis , rash , and vasculitis .
Serum sickness - like syndrome consisting of fever ; urticaria or rash ; and arthralgia , arthritis , joint stiffness , or joint swelling .
Eosinophilia may be present .
DRUG ABUSE DRUG DEPENDENCE OVERDOSAGE The adverse events more commonly seen in overdose are dizziness , nausea , and vomiting .
No specific antidote for minocycline is known .
In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures .
Minocycline is not removed in significant quantities by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES .
EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS .
Minocycline hydrochloride tablets may be taken with or without food ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline - class is recommended to reduce For Pediatric Patients Above 8 Years of Age Usual pediatric dose : 4 mg / kg initially followed by 2 mg / kg every 12 hours , not to exceed the usual adult dose .
Adults The usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride tablets is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours .
Alternatively , if more frequent doses are preferred , two or four 50 mg tablets may be given initially followed by one 50 mg tablet four times daily .
Uncomplicated gonococcal infections other than urethritis and anorectal infections in men : 200 mg initially , followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of four days , with post - therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days .
In the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis in men , 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days is recommended .
For the treatment of syphilis , the usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride should be administered over a period of 10 to 15 days .
Close follow - up , including laboratory tests , is recommended .
In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state , the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for five days .
Mycobacterium marinum infections : Although optimal doses have not been established , 100 mg every 12 hours for 6 to 8 weeks have been used successfully in a limited number of cases .
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical , or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum : 100 mg orally , every 12 hours for at least seven days .
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline - class is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration .
The pharmacokinetics of minocycline in patients with renal impairment ( CLCR < 80 mL / min ) have not been fully characterized .
Current data are insufficient to determine if a dosage adjustment is warranted .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours .
However , due to the anti - anabolic effect of tetracyclines , BUN and creatinine should be monitored ( see WARNINGS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Minocycline hydrochloride tablets are supplied as aqueous film coated tablets containing minocycline hydrochloride equivalent to 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg minocycline .
The 50 mg tablets are white , unscored , modified capsule shaped , coated tablet debossed with “ Par ” on one side and “ 511 ” on the other .
Each tablet contains minocycline hydrochloride equivalent to 50 mg minocycline , supplied as follows : NDC49884 - 096 - 01 Bottle of 100 The 75 mg tablets are white , unscored , modified capsule shaped , coated tablet debossed with “ Par ” on one side and “ 512 ” on the other .
Each tablet contains minocycline hydrochloride equivalent to 75 mg minocycline , supplied as follows : NDC49884 - 097 - 01 Bottle of 100 The 100 mg tablets are white , unscored , modified capsule shaped , coated tablet debossed with “ Par ” on one side and “ 513 ” on the other .
Each tablet contains minocycline hydrochloride equivalent to 100 mg minocycline , supplied as follows : NDC49884 - 098 - 03 Bottle of 50 Store at 20 to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect from light , moisture , and excessive heat .
Dispense in a tight , light - ¬ resistant container as defined in the USP .
Text Here ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND / OR TOXICOLOGY Minocycline hydrochloride has been observed to cause a dark discoloration of the thyroid in experimental animals ( rats , minipigs , dogs and monkeys ) .
In the rat , chronic treatment with minocycline hydrochloride has resulted in goiter accompanied by elevated radioactive iodine uptake and evidence of thyroid tumor production .
Minocycline hydrochloride has also been found to produce thyroid hyperplasia in rats and dogs .
CLINICAL STUDIES REFERENCES 1 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Fourth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M7 - A4 , Vol .
17 , No . 2 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA .
January 1997 .
2 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Sixth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M2 - A6 , Vol .
17 , No . 1 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA . January 1997 .
3 .
National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests – Eighth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M100 - S8 , Vol .
18 , No . 1 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA .
January 1998 .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS DYNACIN ® [ dī - na - sĭn ] ( Minocycline Hydrochloride Tablets , USP ) 50 mg , 75 mg , and 100 mg Read the Patient Information that comes with DYNACIN ® Tablets before you or a family member starts taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is DYNACIN ® ?
DYNACIN ® is a tetracycline - class antibiotic medicine .
DYNACIN ® is used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria .
These include infections of the skin , respiratory tract , urinary tract , some sexually transmitted diseases , and others .
DYNACIN ® may be used along with other treatments for severe acne .
Sometimes , other germs , called viruses cause infections .
The common cold is a virus .
DYNACIN ® , like other antibiotics , does not treat viruses .
Who should not use DYNACIN ® ?
Do not take DYNACIN ® if you are allergic to minocycline or other tetracycline antibiotics .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medications if you are not sure .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in DYNACIN ® .
DYNACIN ® is not recommended for pregnant women or children up to 8 years old because : • 1 .
DYNACIN ® may harm an unborn baby .
• 2 .
DYNACIN ® may permanently turn a baby ’ s or child ’ s teeth yellow ¬ gray ¬ brown during tooth development .
Tooth development happens in the last half of pregnancy and birth to age 8 years .
What should I tell my doctor before starting DYNACIN ® Tablets ?
Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • Have liver or kidney problems .
• • Are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
DYNACIN ® may harm your unborn baby .
Stop taking DYNACIN ® and call your doctor if you become pregnant while taking it .
• • Are breast feeding .
DYNACIN ® passes into your milk and may harm your baby .
You should decide whether to use DYNACIN ® or breastfeed , but not both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you are taking including prescription and non prescription medications , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
DYNACIN ® and other medicines may interact .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • birth control pills .
DYNACIN ® may make your birth control pills less effective .
• • A blood thinner medicine .
The dose of your blood thinner may have to be lowered .
• • A penicillin antibiotic medicine .
DYNACIN ® and penicillins should not be used together .
• • Migraine medicines called ergot alkaloids .
• • An acne medicine called isotretinoin ( Accutane ® , Amnesteem ® , Claravis ® , Sotret ® ) .
• • Antacids that contain aluminum , calcium , or magnesium , or iron - containing products .
Know the medicines you take , keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take DYNACIN ® Tablets ?
• • Take DYNACIN ® Tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take them .
Skipping doses or not taking all your DYNACIN ® may : • • Decrease the effectiveness of the treatment .
• • Increase the chance that bacteria will develop resistance to DYNACIN ® .
• • Take DYNACIN ® with a full glass of liquid .
Taking DYNACIN ® with enough liquid may lower your chance of getting irritation or ulcers in your esophagus .
Your esophagus is the tube that connects your mouth to your stomach .
• • DYNACIN ® Tablets may be taken with or without food .
If you forget to take DYNACIN ® , take it as soon as you remember .
• • If you take too much DYNACIN ® , call you doctor or poison control center right away .
What are the possible side effects of DYNACIN ® ?
DYNACIN ® may cause serious side effects .
Stop DYNACIN ® and call your doctor if you have : • • watery diarrhea • • bloody stools • • stomach cramps • • unusual headaches • • blurred vision • • fever • • rash • • joint pain • • feeling very tired DYNACIN ® may also cause : • • central nervous system effects .
Symptoms include light - headedness , dizziness , and a spinning feeling ( vertigo ) .
You should not drive or operate machines if you have these symptoms .
• • sun sensitivity ( photosensitivity ) .
You may get a worse sunburn with DYNACIN ® .
Avoid sun exposure and the use of sunlamps or tanning beds .
Protect your skin while out in the sunlight .
Stop DYNACIN ® and call your doctor if your skin turns red .
These are not all the side effects with DYNACIN ® .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I store DYNACIN ® Tablets ?
• • Store DYNACIN ® Tablets at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture .
• • Throw away any DYNACIN ® that is outdated or no longer needed .
• • Keep DYNACIN ® Tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General advice about DYNACIN ® Tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use DYNACIN ® Tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DYNACIN ® Tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about DYNACIN ® .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you information about DYNACIN ® that is written for health care professionals .
For more information , you can also call Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 .
What are the ingredients in DYNACIN ® Tablets ?
Active ingredient : minocycline hydrochloride , 50 mg , 75 mg , and 100 mg Inactive ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose NF , Lactose Anhydrous NF , Povidone USP , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide NF , Magnesium Stearate NF , and Sodium Starch Glycolate NF .
The 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg tablets also contain Opadry White which contains : Titanium Dioxide USP , Hypromellose Type 2910 USP , Polyethylene Glycol 400 NF , and Polysorbate 80 NF .
DYNACIN is a registered trademark of Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation licensed to Par Pharmaceutical , Inc .
PAR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES , INC .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 Revised : 11 / 2011 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 75 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 MG TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
