Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 1 . 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses • For the management of acne • Penetrates pores to control blackheads • Helps prevent new acne blemishes and blackheads from forming Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Using other topical acne drugs at the same time or right after use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
• If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive Ingredients Silybum Marianum ( Milk Thistle ) Seed Oil , Nigella Sativa ( Black Cumin ) Seed Oil , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Seed Oil , Punica Granatum ( Pomegranate ) Seed Oil , Diisopropyl Sebacate , Vaccinium Macrocarpon ( Cranberry ) Seed Oil , Dimethyl Isosorbide , Linum Usitatissimum ( Flax ) Seed Oil , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Prunus Armeniaca ( Apricot ) Kernel Oil , Hexylresorcinol , Ethyl Linoleate , Melia Azadirachta Leaf Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Oil , Citrus Aurantium Amara ( Bitter Orange ) Flower Oil , Melia Azadirachta ( Neem ) Flower Extract , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , 4 - Terpineol , Linalool , Coccinia Indica Fruit Extract , Limonene , Solanum Melongena ( Eggplant ) Fruit Extract , Amber Powder , Curcuma Longa ( Turmeric ) Root Extract , Ocimum Sanctum Leaf Extract , Isopropyl Alcohol , Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe ) Flower Extract , Corallina Officinalis Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Moringa Oleifera Seed Oil , Tocopherol , Farnesol , Geraniol , Aqua , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Peel Oil , Ocimum Basilicum ( Basil ) Flower / Leaf Extract .
for oily to acne - prone skin ultra - clarifying For the treatment and prevention of acne and blackheads , this 1 . 5 % Salicylic Acid medicated , dry oil clears congested pores for smoother , blemish - free skin With 1 . 5 % Salicylic Acid , this fast - acting , medicated treatment oil clears acne and blackhead - causing buildup and debris from congested pores for smoother , blemish - free skin .
Tea tree oil and black cumin seed oil support clear skin , while hexylresorcinol and licorice naturally brighten the appearance of old acne discolorations , for a visibly more even - toned complexion .
Non - greasy milk thistle and cucumber seed oil prevent Salicylic Acid from over - drying the skin , while smoothing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles .
Chamomile and neroli soothe stressed , blemish - prone skin .
DIRECTIONS : Can be applied day or night .
After cleansing skin , massage in U . F . O . to skin , neck , and chest , as needed .
U . F . O . is a dry oil and will absorb quickly .
Can also be applied to congested areas on the body .
PRO TIPS : If you are new to using Salicylic Acid , start by using U . F . O . 3 x / week and work your way up to daily use .
You can also mix 1 - 2 drops of U . F . O . into your foundation , before application , giving acne - fighting power to your makeup routine .
Made in USA of responsibly sourced domestic and foreign ingredients Dist : Sunday Riley Modern Skincare , LLC Houston , TX 77027 USA EU RP : Obelis s . a . , 1030 Brussels , BE www . sundayriley . com PACKAGE LABEL NDC 73001 - 460 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL NDC 73001 - 460 - 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
