Active ingredients Purpose Oxymetazoline Hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Nesal Decongestant Uses temporarily relief nasal decongestion due to : - common cold - hay fever - upper respiratory allergies - shrinks swollen membranes - temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Do not use this product if person has heart disease , high blood pressure , thyroid disease , diabetes , or if adult has difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product Do not exceed recommended dosage .
This product may cause temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge .
The use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask doctor if Symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of the children Directions .
Adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
Children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor shake well before each use .
Before using for the first time remove the protective cap from the tip and prime mitered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To remove the cap , squeeze cap at the base on opposite sides on the two smooth impressions with fingers .
While squeezing , twist cap counterclockwise to remove .
Remove clip and press down to use .
Refer to directions on top of each cap .
To reapply cap , turn cap on pump clockwise until it locks .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second flingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Inactive ingredients Benzalkonium Chloride Camphor Disodium EDTA Disodium Phosphate Eucalyptol Menthol Polysorbate 20 Propylene Glycol Sodium Phosphate Water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
