Drug Facts Active ingredient Povidone - iodine , 0 . 5 % ( 0 . 05 % available iodine ) Purpose Oral Antiseptic Uses • For preparation of the oral mucosa prior to injection , dental surgery , or tooth extraction Warnings Do not use this product • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a dentist or doctor • if you are allergic to povidone - iodine or any other ingredients in this product • if you have any thyroid conditions When using this product • do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
If irritation persists , consult a doctor • do not swallow • do not use with hydrogen peroxide Stop use and ask a doctor or dentist if • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use full strength • Apply 10 to 20 milliliters of solution to the operative site .
Instruct the patient to rinse for 30 seconds and then spit out .
• Wait 2 minutes , and apply another 10 to 20 milliliters of solution to the operative site .
Instruct the patient to rinse again for 30 seconds and then spit out .
• With a standard syringe and a blunt , angulated needle , irrigate the operative site and the surrounding gingival mucosa for 1 minute with 10 to 20 milliliters of the solution .
Instruct the patient to spit out the solution after the irrigation procedure .
Other information • store at 25 ⁰ C ( 77 ⁰ F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ⁰ - 30 ⁰ C ( 59 ⁰ - 86 ⁰ F ) • may stain clothing or dental work • avoid contact with jewelry , especially silver Inactive ingredients citric acid , flavor , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium hydroxide Dist .
by : Avrio Health L . P . Stamford , CT 06901 - 3431 305765 - 0 B Betadine Oral Rinse NDC : 67618 - 182 - 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
