Drug Facts Active Ingredients Active Ingredient Purpose Zinc Oxide 25 . 0 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • Provides high protection against sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : at least every 2 hours • Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : - limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . - wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Other Information • Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
• Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• You may report a serious adverse reaction to : 9685 Research Dr . , Irvine , CA 92618 Inactive Ingredients Mica , Hydroxyapatite , Polymethyl Methacrylate , HDI / Trimethylol Hexyllactone Crosspolymer , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Butter , Bronze Powder , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Bisabolol , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Ethyl Ferulate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Melanin , Pentylene Glycol , Water , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbic Acid , Retinyl Palmitate , Phenoxyethanol , Iron Oxides .
Dist .
by ZO Skin Health , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92618 Made in USA with US & imported materials Principal Display Panel ZO ® SKIN HEALTH BY ZEIN OBAGI MD NDC 42851 - 049 - 27 SUNSCREEN + POWDR BROAD - SPECTRUM SPF 45 ZOX12 ™ LIGHT Net Wt .
2 . 7 g / 0 . 09 Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
