[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : Metronidazole Topical Gel contains metronidazole , USP , at a concentration of 7 . 5 mg per gram ( 0 . 75 % ) in a gel consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
Metronidazole is classified therapeutically as an antiprotozoal and antibacterial agent .
Chemically , metronidazole is named 2 - methyl - 5 - nitro - 1 H - imidazole - 1 - ethanol and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Bioavailability studies on the topical administration of 1 gram of Metronidazole Topical Gel ( 7 . 5 mg of metronidazole ) to the face of 10 rosacea patients showed a maximum serum concentration of 66 nanograms per milliliter in one patient .
This concentration is approximately 100 times less than concentrations afforded by a single 250 mg oral tablet .
The serum metronidazole concentrations were below the detectable limits of the assay at the majority of time points in all patients .
Three of the patients had no detectable serum concentrations of metronidazole at any time point .
The mean dose of gel applied during clinical studies was 600 mg which represents 4 . 5 mg of metronidazole per application .
Therefore , under normal usage levels , the formulation affords minimal serum concentrations of metronidazole .
The mechanisms by which Metronidazole Topical Gel acts in the treatment of rosacea are unknown , but appear to include an anti - inflammatory effect .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Metronidazole Topical Gel is indicated for topical application in the treatment of inflammatory papules and pustules of rosacea .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Metronidazole Topical Gel is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole , parabens , or other ingredients of the formulation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Metronidazole Topical Gel has been reported to cause tearing of the eyes .
Therefore , contact with the eyes should be avoided .
If a reaction suggesting local irritation occurs , patients should be directed to use the medication less frequently or discontinue use .
Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole and should be used with care in patients with evidence of , or history of blood dyscrasia .
Information for patients : This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Drug interactions : Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of coumarin and warfarin resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
The effect of topical metronidazole on prothrombin time is not known .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Metronidazole has shown evidence of carcinogenic activity in a number of studies involving chronic , oral administration in mice and rats but not in studies involving hamsters .
Metronidazole has shown evidence of mutagenic activity in several in vitro bacterial assay systems .
In addition , a dose - response increase in the frequency of micronuclei was observed in mice after intraperitoneal injections and an increase in chromosome aberrations have been reported in patients with Crohn ’ s disease who were treated with 200 - 1200 mg / day of metronidazole for 1 to 24 months .
However , no excess chromosomal aberrations in circulating human lymphocytes have been observed in patients treated for 8 months .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy category B : There has been no experience to date with the use of Metronidazole Topical Gel in pregnant patients .
Metronidazole crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation rapidly .
No fetotoxicity was observed after oral metronidazole in rats or mice .
However , because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response and since oral metronidazole has been shown to be a carcinogen in some rodents , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : After oral administration , metronidazole is secreted in breast milk in concentrations similar to those found in the plasma .
Even though Metronidazole Topical Gel blood levels are significantly lower than those achieved after oral metronidazole , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following adverse experiences have been reported with the topical use of metronidazole : burning , skin irritation , dryness , transient redness , metallic taste , tingling or numbness of extremities and nausea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply and rub in a thin film of Metronidazole Topical Gel twice daily , morning and evening , to entire affected areas after washing .
Areas to be treated should be cleansed before application of Metronidazole Topical Gel .
Patients may use cosmetics after application of Metronidazole Topical Gel .
HOW SUPPLIED : Metronidazole Topical Gel is supplied in a 45 g aluminum tube – NDC 66993 - 962 - 45 .
Storage conditions : STORE AT CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE : 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
Marketed by : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA P52259 - 1 Revised : September 2014 PACKAGE LABEL - 45 g Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prasco NDC 66993 - 962 - 45 NET WT .
45 g Metronidazole Topical Gel 0 . 75 % TOPICAL GEL Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPTHALMIC USE .
STORE AT CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Ususal dosage : Apply a thin film to the entire affected areas after washing .
Use morning and evening or as directed by physician .
Avoid application close to the eyes .
Each gram contains : 7 . 5 mg of metronidazole as the active ingredient with 0 . 8 mg of methylparaben and 0 . 2 mg of propylparaben as preservatives in a gel consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
Marketed By : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA Made in Canada .
P52258 - 2
