TO THE PHARMACIST : IMPORTANT : PLEASE READ COMPLETE COMPOUNDING DIRECTIONS NOTE : TAP VIAL UNTIL ALL POWDER FLOWS FREELY .
ADD INDICATED AMOUNT OF ROOM TEMPERATURE 70 % ETHYL ALCOHOL TO VIAL ( TO THE MARK ) AND IMMEDIATELY SHAKE / DISSOLVE COMPLETELY .
Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP Topical Gel : erythromycin ( 3 % ) , benzoyl peroxide ( 5 % ) For Dermatological Use Only – Not for Ophthalmic Use Reconstitute Before Dispensing DESCRIPTION Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP contains erythromycin [ ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - 0 - methyl - α - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) - oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - dimethylamino ) - β - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione ] .
Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced from a strain of Saccharopolyspora erythraea ( formerly Streptomyces erythreus ) .
It is a base and readily forms salts with acids .
Chemically , erythromycin is ( C37H67NO13 ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Erythromycin has the molecular weight of 733 . 94 .
It is a white crystalline powder and has a solubility of approximately 1 mg / mL in water and is soluble in alcohol at 25 ˚ C .
Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP also contains benzoyl peroxide for topical use .
Benzoyl peroxide is an antibacterial and keratolytic agent .
Chemically , benzoyl peroxide is ( C14H10O4 ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Benzoyl peroxide has the molecular weight of 242 . 23 .
It is a white granular powder and is sparingly soluble in water and alcohol and soluble in acetone , chloroform and ether .
Each gram of Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP contains , as dispensed , 30 mg ( 3 % ) of erythromycin and 50 mg ( 5 % ) of benzoyl peroxide in a base of purified water USP , carbomer 940 NF , ethyl alcohol 20 % , sodium hydroxide NF , docusate sodium and fragrance .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism by which erythromycin reduces lesions of acne vulgaris is not fully known ; however , the effect appears to be due in part to the antibacterial activity of the drug .
Benzoyl peroxide has a keratolytic and desquamative effect which may also contribute to its efficacy .
Benzoyl peroxide has been shown to be absorbed by the skin where it is converted to benzoic acid .
Microbiology Erythromycin acts by inhibition of protein synthesis in susceptible organisms by reversibly binding to 50 S ribosomal subunits , thereby inhibiting translocation of aminoacyl transfer - RNA and inhibiting polypeptide synthesis .
Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between erythromycin , lincomycin , chloramphenicol and clindamycin .
Benzoyl peroxide is an antibacterial agent which has been shown to be effective against Propionibacterium acnes , an anaerobe found in sebaceous follicles and comedones .
The antibacterial action of benzoyl peroxide is believed to be due to the release of active oxygen .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including erythromycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis . ”
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General : For topical use only ; not for ophthalmic use .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating or abrasive agents .
If severe irritation develops , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
The use of antibiotic agents may be associated with the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If this occurs , discontinue use and take appropriate measures .
Avoid contact with eyes and all mucous membranes .
Information for Patients : Patients using Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should not use any other topical acne preparation unless otherwise directed by physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP may bleach hair or colored fabric .
• Keep product refrigerated and discard after 3 months .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Data from a study using mice known to be highly susceptible to cancer suggests that benzoyl peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of topical erythromycin .
However , long - term ( 2 - year ) oral studies in rats with erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin base did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
There was no apparent effect on male or female fertility in rats fed erythromycin ( base ) at levels up to 0 . 25 % of diet .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy CATEGORY C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP or benzoyl peroxide .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or any other adverse effect on reproduction in female rats fed erythromycin base ( up to 0 . 25 % diet ) prior to and during mating , during gestation and through weaning of two successive litters .
There are no well - controlled trials in pregnant women with Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP .
It also is not known whether Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Women : It is not known whether Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP is excreted in human milk after topical application .
However , erythromycin is excreted in human milk following oral and parenteral erythromycin administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of this product in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP was approximately 3 % .
These were dryness and urticarial reaction .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported occasionally : irritation of the skin including peeling , itching , burning sensation , erythema , inflammation of the face , eyes and nose , and irritation of the eyes .
Skin discoloration , oiliness and tenderness of the skin have also been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP should be applied twice daily , morning and evening , or as directed by a physician , to affected areas after the skin is thoroughly washed , rinsed with warm water and gently patted dry .
How Supplied and Compounding Directions Size ( Net weight ) NDC Benzoyl Peroxide Gel Active Erythromycin Powder ( In Plastic Vial ) 70 % Ethyl Alcohol To Be Added 23 . 3 grams ( as dispensed ) 64980 - 328 - 01 20 grams 0 . 8 grams 3 mL 46 . 6 grams ( as dispensed ) 64980 - 328 - 02 40 grams 1 . 6 grams 6 mL Prior to dispensing , tap vial until all powder flows freely .
Add indicated amount of room temperature 70 % ethyl alcohol to vial ( to the mark ) and immediately shake to completely dissolve erythromycin .
Add this solution to gel and stir until homogeneous in appearance ( 1 to 1 - 1 / 2 minutes ) .
Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP should then be stored under refrigeration .
Do not freeze .
Place a 3 - month expiration date on the label .
Note : Prior to reconstitution , store at room temperature between 15 ˚ and 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ - 86 ˚ F ) .
After reconstitution , store under refrigeration between 2 ˚ and 8 ˚ C ( 36 ˚ - 46 ˚ F ) .
Do not freeze .
Keep tightly closed .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Rx only Mfd .
by : Lyne Laboratories , Inc . , Brockton , MA 02301 Dist .
by : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Saddle Brook , NJ 07663 R2 - 05 / 18 ——— PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 23 . 3 g ——— Rising ® NDC 64980 - 328 - 01 Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Rx only One 23 . 3 g Jar ( as dispensed ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ——— PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 46 . 6 g ——— Rising ® NDC 64980 - 328 - 02 Erythromycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Topical Gel USP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Rx only One 46 . 6 g Jar ( as dispensed ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
