1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older ( 1 ) .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
( 2 ) • Discontinue treatment when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended .
( 2 ) • Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings , unless directed by the physician ( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face , axilla or groin .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) Apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % as a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
Do not bandage or otherwise cover or wrap the treated skin unless directed by the physician .
Discontinue treatment when control is achieved .
Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended .
Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
Avoid use on the face , axilla or groin .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is for external use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Spray , 0 . 25 % w / w ( 3 ) Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % .
Each gram of desoximetasone topical spray contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone USP in a clear , colorless liquid .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ) None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Effect on Endocrine System : Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during or after treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) • High potency corticosteroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure and young age may predispose patients to HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients and use in pediatric patients is not recommended .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions : Topical corticosteroid products may increase the risk of cataracts and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist .
( 5 . 3 . )
.
• Flammability : Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is flammable ; keep away from heat or flame .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Effect on Endocrine System Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is a topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
In a study including 21 evaluable subjects 18 years of age or older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis , adrenal suppression was identified in 1 out of 12 subjects having involvement of 10 to 15 % of body surface area ( BSA ) and 2 out of 9 subjects having involvement of > 15 % of BSA after treatment with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % twice a day for 28 days .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of high potency steroids , larger treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure and young age .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
Use in patients under 18 years of age is not recommended due to numerically high rates of HPA axis suppression ( the safety and effectiveness of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % have not been established in pediatric patients ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] 5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids , including Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % , may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported with the postmarketing use of topical corticosteroid products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Avoid contact of Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % with eyes .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % may cause eye irritation .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 5 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 6 Flammability Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is flammable ; keep away from heat or flame .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are application site dryness , application site irritation and application site pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In randomized , multicenter , prospective vehicle - controlled clinical trials , subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the body applied desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % or vehicle spray twice daily for 4 weeks .
A total of 149 subjects applied desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Number ( % ) of Subjects with Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % Another less common adverse reaction ( < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % ) was folliculitis .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % b . i . d ( N = 149 ) Vehicle spray b . i . d . ( N = 135 ) Number of Subjects with Adverse Reactions 13 ( 8 . 7 % ) 18 ( 13 . 3 % ) Application site dryness 4 ( 2 . 7 % ) 7 ( 5 . 2 % ) Application site irritation 4 ( 2 . 7 % ) 5 ( 3 . 7 % ) Application site pruritus 3 ( 2 . 0 % ) 5 ( 3 . 7 % ) Another less common adverse reaction ( < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % ) was folliculitis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids included atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , itching , dryness , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Ophthalmic adverse reactions of cataracts , glaucoma , and increased intraocular pressure have been reported during use of topical corticosteroids .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on desoximetasone use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Observational studies suggest maternal use of high to super - high potency topical steroids , including Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % , may be associated with an increased risk of low birthweight infants ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant woman that Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % may increase the potential risk of low birth weight infants and to use Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible .
Desoximetasone has been shown to cause malformations and be embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration at doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % based on a body surface area comparison .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Available observational studies in pregnant women did not identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality with the use of topical corticosteroids of any potency .
However , when the dispensed amount of high to super - high potency topical corticosteroids exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , maternal use was associated with an increased risk of low birth weight in infants .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of topically administered desoximetasone in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breast milk , use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % have not been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of plaque psoriasis .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is not recommended for use in patients less than 18 years of age due to the high incidence of HPA axis suppression observed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression The HPA axis suppression potential of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % was assessed in an open - label , sequential cohort , safety trial in 129 subjects 2 years to less than 18 years of age with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis defined as a Physician Global Assessment ( PGA ) score of ≥ 3 with involvement of at least 10 % of their body surface area ( excluding the face and scalp ) .
In total , 100 pediatric subjects were evaluated for HPA axis function via cosyntropin stimulation testing at baseline and following 4 weeks of twice daily application of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Overall , 36 % of pediatric subjects 2 years to less than 18 years of age demonstrated HPA axis suppression defined as a serum cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL 30 - minutes post cosyntropin stimulation .
The proportion of subjects demonstrating HPA axis suppression was 35 . 0 % in Cohort 1 ( 12 years to less than 18 years of age ) and 43 . 3 % in Cohort 2 ( 6 years to less than 12 years of age ) .
Trial enrollment in the youngest cohort ( 2 years to less than 6 years of age ) was discontinued early due to high incidence of HPA axis suppression observed in the two oldest cohorts ( 6 years to less than 18 years of age ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse reactions including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 11 DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % for dermatologic use contains desoximetasone as the active ingredient .
Desoximetasone is a corticosteroid with the chemical name of pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11ß , 16α ) - .
Desoximetasone has the molecular formula of C22H29FO4 and a molecular weight of 376 . 47 .
The CAS Registry Number is 382 - 67 - 2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of Desoximetasone USP in a clear , colorless liquid with the following inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , citric acid anhydrous , diisopropyl adipate , isopropyl alcohol ( 23 . 4 % ) , L - menthol , medium - chain triglycerides , mineral oil and sorbitan monooleate .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is co - packaged with a manual spray pump for installation by the pharmacist prior to dispensing to patients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in psoriasis is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay Vasoconstrictor studies performed with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % in healthy subjects indicate that it is in the high to super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression The potential for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression was evaluated in two trials .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % was applied twice a day for 28 days and HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL 30 - min post cosyntropin stimulation .
In the first trial , out of 24 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis , 21 .
subjects had evaluable serum cortisol levels .
The proportion of subjects demonstrating HPA axis suppression was 8 . 3 % ( 1 out of 12 ) in subjects having psoriasis involvement of 10 - 15 % of body surface area ( BSA ) , and 22 . 2 % ( 2 out of 9 ) in subjects having psoriasis involvement of > 15 % of their BSA .
In the 2 subjects with available follow - up values , suppression reversed 28 days after the end of treatment .
In another trial , the HPA axis suppression was evaluated in 106 pediatric subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
One hundred subjects had evaluable serum cortisol levels .
The proportion of subjects demonstrating HPA axis suppression was 35 . 0 % ( 21 out of 60 ) in Cohort 1 ( 12 years to less than 18 years of age , with a mean baseline BSA involvement of 16 % ) , and 43 . 3 % ( 13 out of 30 ) in Cohort 2 ( 6 years to less than 12 years of age , with a mean baseline BSA involvement of 19 % ) .
Trial enrollment in the youngest cohort ( 2 years to less than 6 years of age ) was discontinued early due to high incidence of HPA axis suppression observed in the two oldest cohorts ( 6 years to less than 18 years of age ) .
The overall HPA axis suppression rate was 36 % in pediatric subjects 2 years to less than 18 years of age .
Due to high incidence of HPA axis suppression observed from this trial , desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is not recommended for use in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Plasma concentrations of desoximetasone were measured at two single random time points in the HPA axis suppression trial in 24 adult subjects with psoriasis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The mean ( % Coefficient of Variation ) concentration of desoximetasone was 449 pg / mL ( 86 % ) at Day 14 and 678 pg / mL ( 135 % ) at Day 28 .
The concentration time profile following application of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is not known .
In the pediatric HPA axis suppression trial , plasma concentrations of desoximetasone were measured in a subset of subjects in Cohorts 1 and 2 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
High inter subject variability in plasma concentrations was observed in both cohorts .
The mean ( % Coefficient of Variation ) maximum concentration on Day 29 was 1881 pg / mL ( 127 % ) in Cohort 1 ( n = 11 ) and 1116 pg / mL ( 94 % ) in Cohort 2 ( n = 8 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
In a 13 - week repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of desoximetasone spray at concentrations of 0 . 001 , 0 . 005 and 0 . 02 % BID ( which corresponds to dose levels of 0 . 01 , 0 . 05 , or 0 . 2 mg / kg / dose BID , respectively ) resulted in a toxicity profile consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids , including adrenal atrophy and histopathological changes in several organ systems indicative of severe immune suppression .
A no observable adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) could not be determined in this study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Desoximetasone revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of male or female fertility was observed at subcutaneous desoximetasone doses up to 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 mg / m2 / day ) in Sprague - Dawley rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two multi - center , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials were conducted in 239 subjects aged 18 years and older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the body .
In both trials , randomized subjects applied desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % or vehicle spray to the affected areas twice daily for 4 weeks .
Enrolled subjects had a minimum body surface area of involvement of 10 % , and a Physician ' s Global Assessment score ( PGA ) of 3 ( moderate ) or 4 ( severe ) .
Efficacy was assessed at Week 4 as the proportion of subjects who were considered a Clinical Success ( " clear " ( 0 ) or " almost clear " ( 1 ) according to the PGA scale ) .
Table 2 presents the efficacy results .
Table 2 .
Number of Subjects ( % ) with Clinical Success ( scored as clear or almost clear ) at Week 4 .
Paramete r Trial 1 Trial 2 Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % N = 59 Vehicle N = 60 Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % N = 60 Vehicle N = 60 Clinical Success 18 ( 30 . 5 % ) 3 ( 5 . 0 % ) 32 ( 53 . 3 % ) 11 ( 18 . 3 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied / Storage Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is a clear , colorless liquid supplied in white , opaque bottles with white , opaque screw caps in the following sizes : • 30 mL ( NDC 68180 - 944 - 11 ) • 50 mL ( NDC 68180 - 944 - 22 ) • 100 mL ( NDC 68180 - 944 - 33 ) Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Spray is flammable ; avoid heat , flame or smoking when using this product .
Each unit is co - packaged with a manual spray pump for installation by the pharmacist .
16 . 2 Instructions for the Pharmacist • Remove the spray pump from the wrapper • Remove and discard the cap from the bottle • Keeping the bottle vertical , insert the spray pump into the bottle and turn clockwise until well - fastened • Dispense the bottle with the spray pump inserted • Label the bottle with " discard the product 30 days after dispensing " 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Inform patients of the following : • Use this medication as directed by the physician .
Do not use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is for external use only .
• Avoid contact with eyes and use on the face , axilla or groin .
• To minimize the risk of adverse reactions : • $ $ UnOrderedlist • do not bandage or otherwise cover or wrap the treated skin so as to be occlusive .
• discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , contact the physician .
• do not use other corticosteroid - containing products with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % without first consulting with the physician .
• $ $ EndUnOrderedlist • Advise patients that desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise women to use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while pregnant or breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding woman not to apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 2 ] .
• Report any signs of local or systemic adverse reactions including any visual symptoms to the physician .
• This medication is flammable ; avoid heat , flame , or smoking when applying this product .
• Discard this product 30 days after dispensed by pharmacist .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India Revised : June 2022 ID # : 270481 PATIENT INFORMATION Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ( des - OX - i - MET - a - sone ) Important information : Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is for use on skin ( topical ) only .
Do not get desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % near or in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
What is Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat plaque psoriasis of the body in people 18 years of age and older .
It is not known if desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is not recommended for use in children under 18 years of age .
Before you use Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : have had irritation or other skin reaction to a steroid medicine in the past .
have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before you use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
have thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) at the treatment site have adrenal gland problems have diabetes liver problems are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % will harm your unborn baby .
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
may increase your chance of having a low birthweight baby .
If you use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
during pregnancy , use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
on the smallest area of the skin and for the shortest time needed .
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if desoximetasone passes into your breast milk .
If you use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % and breastfeed , use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % on the smallest area of the skin and for the shortest time needed .
Do not apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % directly to the nipple and areola to avoid contact with your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
Do not use other products containing a corticosteroid medicine while using desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % without talking to your doctor first .
What should I avoid while using Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % is flammable .
Avoid heat , flames or smoking while applying desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to your skin .
How should I use Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
See the " Instructions for Use " for detailed information about the right way to apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
Your doctor should tell you how much desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to use and where to use it .
Apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to the affected skin areas 2 times a day and rub it in gently .
Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area , unless your doctor tells you to .
Use Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % for the shortest amount of time needed to treat your plaque psoriasis .
Tell your doctor if your skin condition is not getting better after 4 weeks of using desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
You should not use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % for longer than 4 weeks .
Do not use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % on your face , armpits or groin .
Do not use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % if you have thinning of your skin ( atrophy ) at the treatment site .
Wash your hands after applying desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
What are the possible side effects of Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % may cause serious side effects , including : Symptoms of a disorder where the adrenal gland does not make enough of certain hormones ( adrenal insufficiency ) during treatment or after stopping treatment with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check for adrenal gland problems .
Cushing ' s syndrome , a condition that happens when your body is exposed to large amounts of the hormone cortisol .
Your doctor may do tests to check for this .
High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) or diabetes mellitus that has not been diagnosed can happen when treated with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Your doctor may do tests to check for this .
Skin reactions at the treated skin site .
Tell your doctor if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
Eye problems .
Using desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % may increase your chance of getting cataracts and glaucoma .
Do not get desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % in your eyes because it may cause eye irritation .
Tell your doctor if you have blurred vision or other vision problems during treatment with desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
The most common side effects of Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % include dryness , irritation and itching of skin at the treated site .
These are not all of the possible side effects of desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or visit our website at www . lupinpharmaceuticals . com .
How should I store Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
Store desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % at room temperature between 68 ˚ F to 77 ˚ F ( 20 ˚ C to 25 ˚ C ) .
Throw away ( discard ) unused desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % after 30 days .
Keep desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ?
Active ingredient : desoximetasone USP Inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , citric acid anhydrous , diisopropyl adipate , isopropyl alcohol ( 23 . 4 % ) , L - menthol , medium - chain triglycerides , mineral oil and sorbitan monooleate .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India Revised : June 2022 Instructions for Use Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % ( des - OX - i - MET - a - sone ) Important information : Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is for use on skin ( topical ) only .
Do not get desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % near or in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
Read the Instructions for Use before you start using desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Parts of Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % bottle ( See Figure A ) Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % : Step 1 : Remove the cap from the pump top .
Step 2 : Hold the bottle in an upright position while pointing the opening of the pump top in the direction of the affected area .
To spray , push down on the pump top .
Apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to the affected area as instructed by your doctor .
( See Figure B ) Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Spray only enough desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to cover the affected area , for example , the elbow ( See Figure C ) .
Rub in desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % gently to the affected area .
Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repeat Steps 2 and 3 to apply desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % to other affected areas as instructed by your doctor .
Step 4 : After applying desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % , place the cap back onto the pump top .
( See Figure D ) Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % ?
• Store desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % at room temperature between 68 ˚ F to 77 ˚ F ( 20 ˚ C to 25 ˚ C ) .
• Throw away ( discard ) unused desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % 30 days after it has been opened .
• Desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % is flammable .
Keep away from heat , flames or smoke .
Keep desoximetasone topical spray , 0 . 25 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India Revised : June 2022 ID # : 270481 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % 100 mL Bottle Carton NDC 68180 - 944 - 33 Rx only For Topical Use Only Not For Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
