DESCRIPTION : Urelle ® tablets for oral administration are supplied as navy blue round tablets with “ A - 002 ” debossed on one side .
Each Tablet Contains : Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg Methenamine 81 . 0 mg Methylene Blue 10 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 32 . 4 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Corn Starch , Dicalcium Phosphate , FD & C Blue # 2 / Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Polyethylene Glycol , Polyvinyl Alcohol , Talc , Titanium Dioxide .
INDICATIONS and USAGE : Urelle ® is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding .
Indicated for the relief of local symptoms , such as inflammation , hypermotility , and pain , which accompany lower urinary tract infections .
Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is possible .
Risk - benefit should be carefully considered when the following medical problems exist : cardiac disease ( especially cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , coronary heart disease , mitral stenosis ) ; gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease ; glaucoma ; myasthenia gravis ; acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy ( such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) .
WARNINGS : If rapid pulse , dizziness , or blurring of vision occurs , discontinue use immediately .
Patients should be advised that urine will be colored blue when taking this medication .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
PRECAUTIONS : Cross sensitivity and / or related problems - patients intolerant of belladonna alkaloids or salicylates may be intolerant of this medication also .
Delay in gastric emptying could complicate the management of gastric ulcers .
Urelle ® contains methylene blue .
Methylene blue should generally NOT be given to patients taking serotonergic drugs .
Drug Interactions : Although the exact mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown , methylene blue inhibits the action of monoamine oxidase A — an enzyme responsible for breaking down serotonin in the brain .
It is believed that when methylene blue is given to patients taking serotonergic psychiatric medications , high levels of serotonin can build up in the brain , causing toxicity .
This is referred to as Serotonin Syndrome .
Signs and symptoms of Serotonin Syndrome include mental changes ( confusion , hyperactivity , memory problems ) , muscle twitching , excessive sweating , shivering or shaking , diarrhea , trouble with coordination , and / or fever .
Additional Information for Healthcare Professionals : Methylene blue can interact with serotonergic psychiatric medications and cause serious CNS toxicity .
In emergency situations requiring life - threatening or urgent treatment with methylene blue ( as described above ) , the availability of alternative interventions should be considered and the benefit of methylene blue treatment should be weighed against the risk of serotonin toxicity .
If methylene blue must be administered to a patient receiving a serotonergic drug , the serotonergic drug must be immediately stopped , and the patient should be closely monitored for emergent symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks ( five weeks if fluoxetine [ Prozac ] was taken ) , or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue , whichever comes first .
In non - emergency situations when non - urgent treatment with methylene blue is contemplated and planned , the serotonergic psychiatric medication should be stopped to allow its activity in the brain to dissipate .
Most serotonergic psychiatric drugs should be stopped at least 2 weeks in advance of methylene blue treatment .
Fluoxetine ( Prozac ) , which has a longer half - life compared to similar drugs , should be stopped at least 5 weeks in advance .
Treatment with the serotonergic psychiatric medication may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue .
Serotonergic psychiatric medications should not be started in a patient receiving methylene blue .
Wait until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue before starting the antidepressant .
Educate your patients to recognize the symptoms of serotonin toxicity or CNS toxicity and advise them to contact a healthcare professional immediately if they experience any symptoms while taking serotonergic psychiatric medications or methylene blue .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 999 - 8402 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION : Adults – One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Pediatric – Dosage must be individualized by a physician for older children .
Urelle ® is not recommended for use in children 6 years of age or younger .
HOW SUPPLIED : Urelle ® tablets for oral administration are supplied in child resistant bottles of 90 tablets ( NDC 0037 - 6321 - 90 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by : Meda Pharmaceuticals ® Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 © 2014 Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
MEDA PHARMACEUTICALS and URELLE are registered trademarks of Meda AB or a related entity .
Rx Only IN - 632110 - 01 Rev . 07 / 2014 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – BOTTLE LABEL NDC 0037 - 6321 - 90 90 TABLETS Urelle ® Urinary Antiseptic Rx only Distributed by : MEDA PHARMACEUTICALS ® Somerset , New Jersey 08873 - 4120 © 2018 Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc .
MEDA PHARMACEUTICALS ® and URELLE ® are registered trademarks of Meda AB or a related entity .
Description : Urelle ® tablets for oral administration are supplied as navy blue round tablets with “ A - 002 ” debossed on one side .
Each Tablet Contains : Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg Methenamine 81 . 0 mg Methylene Blue 10 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 32 . 4 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Dosage : Adults - one tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Pediatric - Dosage must be individualized by a physician for older children .
Urelle ® is not recommended for use in children 6 years of age or younger .
Precaution : Contains Methylene Blue and should NOT be taken with serotonergic psychiatric medications .
For full product information see package insert .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 999 - 8402 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container as defined in the USP .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Note : Patients should be advised that urine will be colored blue when taking this medication .
LB - 632110 - 02 Rev . 02 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
