Active ingridients ( in each gram ) Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Use Temporary relief of minor toothache , pain and sore mouth associated with canker sores , dentures and orthodontic devices Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a rare but serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Do not exceed reccommended dosage Do not use if you have a history of allergies to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other ‘ caine ’ anesthetics Do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor or dentist Stop using and ask a doctor if swelling , rash or fever develops or if irritation , pain or redness persists of gets worse Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or Contact Poison Control Center right away Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Directions Adults and children 12 years and over .
Press top of container and dispense 0 . 2 mL .
Apply 0 . 2 mL of gel to the desired area using a cotton swab .
Children under 12 should be supervised by an adult .
Children under 2 years of age , consult a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature 20 ˚ - 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ - 77 ˚ F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Inactive ingredients Propylene glycol , polyethylene glycol , carbomer , sodium saccharin , povidone , flavoring and FD & C Red No . 40 .
Questions or comments Contact Hager Worldwide at ( 800 ) 328 - 2335 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Jar Label NDC 62565 - 802 - 01 OneTouch Revolution Topical Anesthetic Gel OneTouch Revolution is indicated for anesthesia of accessible mucous membrane .
Strawberry Ice Net Wt .
1 . 12 oz ( 32 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
