Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children unmder 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 ADA Council Statement The ADA council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of CVS Health Blue Mint Antiseptic Mouthwash is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Cool Mint Antiseptic Adverse Reactions Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsacket , RI 02895 2015 CVS / pharmacy www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - SHOP - CVS Made in the U . S . A . of U . S . and foreign coponents principal display panel Compare to the active ingredints in Listerine Cool Mint Antiseptic CVS Health Antiseptic Mouthwash ANTIGINGIVITIS / ANTIPLAQUE Kills gemrs that cause plaque , gingivitis & bad breath Blue Mint ADA Accepted American Dental Association Sealed with printed neckband for your protection .
Do not use if broken or missing .
1 . 5 L ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
