Active ingredient Clotrimazole 50 mg Purpose Vaginal antifungal / external vulvar antifungal Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Treats vaginal yeast ( candida ) infections Relieves external vulvar itching and irritation associated with a yeast infection Warnings For vaginal or external vulvar use only .
Do not use : ° If you have abdominal pain , fever , or a foul smelling vaginal discharge .
Contact your doctor immediately .
° In children less than 12 years of age .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : ° vaginal or vulvar itching and discomfort for the first time .
If you have had a doctor diagnose a vaginal yeast infection before and have the same symptoms now , use this cream as directed for 7 days in a row .
° symptoms that return within 2 months or infections that do not clear up easily with proper treatment .
You could be pregnant , or there could be a serious underlying medical cause for your infections , including diabetes or a damaged immune system ( including damage from infection from HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Please read enclosed educational pamphlet .
When using this product do not use tampons .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : symptoms do not get better in 3 days or infection is n't gone in 7 days .
You may have a condition other than a yeast infection .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions ° before using this product , read the enclosed pamphlet ° fill the applicator and insert one applicatorful of cream into the vagina , preferably at bedtime .
Repeat this procedure 7 days in a row .
Throw applicator away after use .
° for relief of external vulvar itching , squeeze a small amount of cream onto your finger and gently spread the cream onto the irritated area of the vulva .
Use once or twice a day for up to 7 days as needed to relieve external vulvar itching .
The cream should not be used for vulvar itching due to causes other than a yeast infection .
Other Information ° store at room temperature between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° to 86 ° F ) ° ° see end flaps of carton and tube for lot number and expiration date ° safety sealed : the tube opening should be sealed .
If seal has been punctured or is not visible , do not use the product .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 ( select option # 2 ) between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , sorbitan monostearate .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
