Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 1 . 0 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water • using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication at a time should be used , unless otherwise directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if irritation persists Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet face .
Apply cleanser to hands , add water and work into lather .
Gently massage all over face avoiding eye area .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Good for daily use .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• For children under 10 years of age and under , consult your doctor .
Inactive Ingredients water , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium lauroyl methyl isethionate , sodium cocoyl apple amino acids , glycerin , salt ( sodium chloride ) , cocamide MEA , glyceryl stearate SE , stearic acid , myristic acid , common purslane ( Portulaca oleracea ) extract , soapberry ( Sapindus mukurossi ) fruit extract , squalane , hydrolyzed jojoba esters , methyl glucose caprate / caprylate / oleate & propanediol , trisodium ethylenediamine disuccinate , vitamin E ( tocopheryl acetate ) , xanthan gum , benzyl alcohol , lauroyl lysine , chlorphenesin , sodium hydroxide , fragrance Questions or Comments ?
1 - 855 - 626 - 6606 Made in USA ( US and non - US ingredients ) Manufactured for Kamedis Paterson , NJ 07503 1 - 855 - 626 - 6606 www . KamedisUSA . com Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
