10 % Dextrose Injection , USP CONCENTRATED DEXTROSE IN WATER Concentrated source of carbohydrate calories for intravenous infusion .
NOTE : This solution is hypertonic − see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
Partial - Fill Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP ( concentrated dextrose in water ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of Dextrose , USP in water for injection for intravenous administration after appropriate admixture or dilution .
10 % Dextrose Injection , USP is provided as a 500 mL volume in a 1000 mL partial - fill container .
The container is designed to facilitate admixture or dilution .
See table under HOW SUPPLIED for summary of content and characteristics of this concentrated solution .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection following admixture or dilution .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
Dextrose Injection , USP is a parenteral fluid and nutrient replenisher .
Dextrose Injection , USP is chemically designated D - glucose monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein sparing action .
Dextrose Injection , USP undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production , respectively ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments , and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP ( concentrated dextrose in water ) in a partial - fill container is indicated for admixture with amino acids or dilution with other compatible IV fluids to provide a 5 % final dextrose concentration for intravenous infusion in patients whose condition requires parenteral nutrition .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A concentrated dextrose solution should not be used when intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage is present nor in the presence of delirium tremens if the patient is already dehydrated .
Dextrose Injection , USP without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility that pseudoagglutination of red cells may occur .
WARNINGS Concentrated dextrose in water should be administered only after suitable dilution .
Hypertonic dextrose solutions should be given slowly .
Significant hyperglycemia and possible hyperosmolar syndrome may result from too rapid administration .
The physician should be aware of the symptoms of hyperosmolar syndrome , such as mental confusion and loss of consciousness , especially in patients with chronic uremia and those with known carbohydrate intolerance .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
FOR PERIPHERAL VEIN ADMINISTRATION Hypertonic dextrose solutions ( above 5 % concentration ) should be given slowly , preferably through a small bore needle into a large vein , to minimize venous irritation .
FOR CENTRAL VENOUS ADMINISTRATION Concentrated dextrose should be administered via central vein after appropriate admixture or dilution when required .
PRECAUTIONS Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Blood electrolyte monitoring is essential , and fluid and electrolyte imbalances should be corrected .
Essential vitamins and minerals also should be provided as needed .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle ( or catheter ) is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
Concentrated dextrose solutions should not be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
This product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hyperosmolar syndrome , resulting from excessively rapid administration of concentrated dextrose may cause hypovolemia , dehydration , mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Concentrated Dextrose in Water is administered by slow intravenous infusion ( a ) after admixture with amino acid solutions or ( b ) after dilution with other compatible IV fluids .
Dosage should be adjusted to meet the requirements of each individual patient .
The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0 . 5 g / kg of body weight / hr .
About 95 % of the dextrose is retained when infused at a rate of 0 . 8 g / kg / hr .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
A list of nutritional admixture values is appended .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Drug Interaction Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose , partial - fill , flexible containers as follows : a 500 mL volume in a 1000 mL container .
See the following table .
Concentrated Dextrose In Water Content and CharacteristicsNDC No .
% Conc .
Fill Volume ( mL ) Total Grams of Dextrose Hydrous Per Container kcal [ 1 ] / 100 mL ( Per Container ) mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
pH ( range ) 0409 - 7938 - 19 10 500 50 34 ( 170 ) 505 4 . 3 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) 0990 - 7938 - 19 10 500 50 34 ( 170 ) 505 4 . 3 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) [ 1 ] Caloric value calculated on the basis of 3 . 4 kcal / g of dextrose , hydrous .
ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Nutritional Admixture Values Equal volumes of 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP and Aminosyn ™ 7 % provide the following : Dextrose Pre - Dilution Concentration Admixture Non - Protein kcal / g N Admixture Non - Protein kcal / liter Admixture g N / liter Admixture Dextrose Concentration 10 % 31 170 5 . 5 5 % Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : November , 2018 EN - 4694 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Bag Label 500 mL NDC 0990 - 7938 - 19 IN 1000 mL PARTIAL - FILL CONTAINER 10 % DEXTROSE Injection , USP EACH 100 mL CONTAINS DEXTROSE , HYDROUS 10 g IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
505 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC . )
pH 4 . 3 ( 3 . 2 TO 6 . 5 ) CAUTION : HYPERTONIC .
ADMINISTER ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
DEXTROSE SOLUTIONS WITHOUT SALTS SHOULD NOT BE USED IN BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS BECAUSE OF POSSIBLE ROULEAU FORMATION .
ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
FOR I . V . USE .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Rx ONLY IM - 4435 3 V CONTAINS DEHP icumedical ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Bag Pouch Label TO OPEN — TEAR AT NOTCH The overwrap is a moisture and oxygen barrier .
Do not remove unit from overwrap until ready for use .
Visually inspect overwrap for tears or holes .
Discard unit if overwrap is damaged .
Use unit promptly when pouch is opened .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
See insert .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Rx only WR - 0559 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
