1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH TOOTHPASTE Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Self - topical neutral fluoride dentifrice containing 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) sodium fluoride for use as a dental caries preventive in adults and pediatric patients .
Active Ingredient Sodium fluoride 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) .
Inactive Ingredients water , sorbitol , hydrated silica , PEG - 12 , tetrapotassium pyrophosphate , sodium lauryl sulfate , flavor ( Spearmint flavor only ) , xanthan gum , flavor ( Fruitastic ™ flavor only ) , sodium benzoate , sodium saccharin , titanium dioxide ( Fruitastic ™ flavor only ) , FD & C blue no . 1 ( Spearmint flavor only ) , D & C red no . 33 ( Fruitastic ™ flavor only ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Frequent topical applications to the teeth with preparations having a relatively high fluoride content increase tooth resistance to acid dissolution and enhance penetration of the fluoride ion into tooth enamel .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE A dental caries preventive , for once daily self - applied topical use .
It is well established that 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators . 1 - 4 PreviDent ® 5000 Plus ® brand of 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride in a squeeze - tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush .
This prescription dental cream should be used once daily in place of your regular toothpaste unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional .
May be used in areas where drinking water is fluoridated since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis .
( see WARNINGS for exception ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in pediatric patients under age 6 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
WARNINGS Prolonged daily ingestion may result in various degrees of dental fluorosis in pediatric patients under age 6 years , especially if the water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm , since younger pediatric patients frequently cannot perform the brushing process without significant swallowing .
Use in pediatric patients under age 6 years requires special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of dental cream which could cause dental fluorosis .
Read directions carefully before using .
Keep out of reach of infants and children .
PRECAUTIONS General Not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats , males or females , treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological data provide no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water and risk of human cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shown that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those to which humans are exposed .
In vivo data are conflicting .
Some studies report chromosome damage in rodents , while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans has not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when products containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use The use of PreviDent ® 5000 Plus ® in pediatric age groups 6 to 16 years as a caries preventive is supported by pioneering clinical studies with 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride gels in mouth trays in students age 11 - 14 years conducted by Englander , et al . 2 , 3 , 4 Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Please refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of 1 . 1 % ( w / v ) sodium fluoride , 15 percent were 65 and over , while 1 percent were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis , and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , give calcium ( e . g . , milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , induce vomiting , give orally soluble calcium ( e . g . , milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . , more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( a thin ribbon ) of PreviDent ® 5000 Plus ® contains approximately 2 . 5 mg fluoride .
A 1 . 8 oz .
tube contains approximately 255 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional : • Adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age or older , apply a thin ribbon of PreviDent ® 5000 Plus to a toothbrush .
Brush thoroughly once daily for two minutes , preferably at bedtime .
• After use , adults expectorate .
For best results , do not eat , drink or rinse for 30 minutes .
Pediatric patients , ages 6 - 16 years , expectorate after use and rinse mouth thoroughly .
HOW SUPPLIED Spearmint Fruitastic ™ 1 . 8 oz .
( 51 g ) net wt .
plastic tubes .
NDC 0126 - 0287 - 66 NDC 0126 - 0286 - 66 Twin Pack ( two 1 . 8 oz .
( 51 g ) net wt .
tubes ) NDC 0126 - 0287 - 33 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature , 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) .
REFERENCES • American Dental Association , Council on Dental Therapeutics , Fluoride compounds , In : Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed .
40 , Chicago , ADA , 405 - 407 ( 1984 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , Clinical Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , JADA , 75 , 638 - 644 ( 1967 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , Residual Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , JADA , 78 , 783 - 787 ( 1969 ) .
• Englander HR , et al : JADA 83 : 354 - 358 , 1971 .
Fruitastic is a licensed trademark of National Fruit Products Co .
Inc .
Colgate Oral Pharmaceuticals , Inc . a subsidiary of Colgate - Palmolive Company New York , NY 10022 U . S . A . Questions / Comments : 1 - 800 - 962 - 2345 www . colgateprofessional . com P10001052 Rev . Mar . 2009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51 g Tube Carton - 0287 Colgate ® NDC 0126 - 0287 - 66 PreviDent ® 5000 PLUS Rx ONLY 1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH TOOTHPASTE SPEARMINT NET .
WT .
1 . 8 OZ ( 51 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51 g Tube Carton - 0286 Colgate ® NDC 0126 - 0286 - 66 PreviDent ® 5000 PLUS Rx ONLY 1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH TOOTHPASTE FRUITASTIC ™ NET .
WT .
1 . 8 OZ ( 51 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
