Fliptop Vial Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
WARNING Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because clindamycin therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION Clindamycin Injection , USP , a water soluble ester of clindamycin and phosphoric acid , is a sterile solution for intramuscular or intravenous use .
May contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
pH is 6 . 5 range 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
Clindamycin is a semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent compound lincomycin .
The chemical name of clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
The molecular formula is C18H34ClN2O8PS and the molecular weight is 504 . 97 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 150 mg clindamycin , 0 . 5 mg disodium edetate and 9 . 45 mg benzyl alcohol added as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Biologically inactive clindamycin phosphate is rapidly converted to active clindamycin .
By the end of short - term intravenous infusion , peak serum levels of active clindamycin are reached .
Biologically inactive clindamycin phosphate disappears rapidly from the serum ; the average elimination half - life is 6 minutes ; however , the serum elimination half - life of active clindamycin is about 3 hours in adults and 2 ½ hours in pediatric patients .
After intramuscular injection of clindamycin phosphate , peak levels of active clindamycin are reached within 3 hours in adults and 1 hour in pediatric patients .
Serum level curves may be constructed from I . V . peak serum levels as given in Table 1 by application of elimination half - lives listed above .
Serum levels of clindamycin can be maintained above the in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations for most indicated organisms by administration of clindamycin phosphate every 8 to 12 hours in adults and every 6 to 8 hours in pediatric patients , or by continuous intravenous infusion .
An equilibrium state is reached by the third dose .
The elimination half - life of clindamycin is increased slightly in patients with markedly reduced renal or hepatic function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
Dosage schedules need not be modified in the presence of mild or moderate renal or hepatic disease .
No significant levels of clindamycin are attained in the cerebrospinal fluid , even in the presence of inflamed meninges .
Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly volunteers ( 61 to 79 years ) and younger adults ( 18 to 39 years ) indicate that age alone does not alter clindamycin pharmacokinetics ( clearance , elimination half - life , volume of distribution , and area under the serum concentration - time curve ) after I . V . administration of clindamycin phosphate .
After oral administration of clindamycin hydrochloride , elimination half - life is increased to approximately 4 hours ( range 3 . 4 to 5 . 1 h ) in the elderly compared to 3 . 2 hours ( range 2 . 1 to 4 . 2 h ) in younger adults .
The extent of absorption , however , is not different between the age groups and no dosage alteration is necessary for the elderly with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function1 .
Serum assays for active clindamycin require an inhibitor to prevent in vitro hydrolysis of clindamycin phosphate .
Table 1 Average Peak and Trough Serum Concentrations of Active Clindamycin After Dosing with Clindamycin PhosphateDosage Regimen Peak mcg / mL Trough mcg / mL Healthy Adult Males ( Post equilibrium ) 600 mg I . V . in 30 min q6h 600 mg I . V . in 30 min q8h 900 mg I . V . in 30 min q8h 600 mg I . M . q12 * 10 . 9 10 . 8 14 . 1 9 2 1 . 1 1 . 7 Pediatric Patients ( first dose ) * 5 - 7 mg / kg I . V . in 1 hour 5 - 7 mg / kg I . M . 3 - 5 mg / kg I . M . 10 8 4 * Data in this group from patients being treated for infection .
Microbiology : Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Clindamycin has been shown to have in vitro activity against isolates of the following organisms : Aerobic gram positive cocci , including : Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing strains ) .
When tested by in vitro methods , some staphylococcal strains originally resistant to erythromycin rapidly develop resistance to clindamycin .
Staphylococcus epidermidis ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing strains ) .
When tested by in vitro methods , some staphylococcal strains originally resistant to erythromycin rapidly develop resistance to clindamycin .
Streptococci ( exceptEnterococcus faecalis ) Pneumococci Anaerobic gram negative bacilli , including : Bacteroides species ( including Bacteroides fragilis group and Bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) Fusobacterium species Anaerobic gram positive nonsporeforming bacilli , including : Propionibacterium Eubacterium Actinomyces species Anaerobic and microaerophilic gram positive cocci , including : Peptococcus species Peptostreptococcus species Microaerophilic streptococci Clostridia : Clostridia are more resistant than most anaerobes to clindamycin .
Most Clostridium perfringens are susceptible , but other species , e . g . , Clostridium sporogenes and Clostridium tertium are frequently resistant to clindamycin .
Susceptibility testing should be done .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antagonism has been demonstrated betweeen clindamycin and erythromycin .
In vitro Susceptibility Testing : Disk diffusion technique - Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters give the most precise estimates of antibiotic susceptibility .
One such procedure2 has been recommended for use with disks to test susceptibility to clindamycin .
Reports from a laboratory using the standardized single - disk susceptibility test1 with a 2 mcg clindamycin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Susceptible organisms produce zones of 17 mm or greater , indicating that the tested organism is likely to respond to therapy .
Organisms of intermediate susceptibility produce zones of 15 - 16 mm , indicating that the tested organism would be susceptible if a high dosage is used or if the infection is confined to tissues and fluids ( e . g . , urine ) , in which high antibiotic levels are attained .
Resistant organisms produce zones of 14 mm or less , indicating that other therapy should be selected .
Standardized procedures require the use of control organisms .
The 2 mcg clindamycin disk should give a zone diameter between 24 and 30 mm for S . aureus ATCC 25923 .
Dilution techniques − A bacterial isolate may be considered susceptible if the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for clindamycin is not more than 1 . 6 mcg / mL .
Organisms are considered moderately susceptible if the MIC is greater than 1 . 6 mcg / mL and less than or equal to 4 . 8 mcg / mL .
Organisms are considered resistant if the MIC is greater than 4 . 8 mcg per mL .
The range of MIC ’ s for the control strains are as follows : S . aureus ATCC 29213 , 0 . 06 to 0 . 25 mcg / mL .
E . faecalis ATCC 29212 , 4 to 16 mcg / mL .
For anaerobic bacteria the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) of clindamycin can be determined by agar dilution and broth dilution ( including microdilution ) techniques . 3 If MICs are not determined routinely , the disk broth method is recommended for routine use .
The KIRBY - BAUER DISK DIFFUSION METHOD AND ITS INTERPRETIVE STANDARDS ARE NOT RECOMMENDED FOR ANAEROBES .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Clindamycin Injection , USP is also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis , as described in the WARNING box , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
Clindamycin Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : Lower respiratory tract infections including pneumonia , empyema , and lung abscess caused by anaerobes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , other streptococci ( except E . faecalis ) , and Staphylococcus aureus .
Skin and skin structure infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , Staphylococcus aureus , and anaerobes .
Gynecological infections including endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis , and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection caused by susceptible anaerobes .
Intra - abdominal infections including peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess caused by susceptible anaerobic organisms .
Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci ( except Enterococcus faecalis ) , and susceptible anaerobes .
Bone and joint infections including acute hematogenous osteomyelitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus and as adjunctive therapy in the surgical treatment of chronic bone and joint infections due to susceptible organisms .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin .
WARNINGS See WARNING box .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
This product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” in premature infants .
( See PRECAUTIONS − Pediatric Use ) .
Usage in Meningitis : Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTOID REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN AND INTRAVENOUS CORTICOSTEROIDS SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralReview of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When clindamycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Clindamycin phosphate should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Clindamycin phosphate should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Certain infections may require incision and drainage or other indicated surgical procedures in addition to antibiotic therapy .
The use of clindamycin phosphate may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms − particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
Clindamycin phosphate should not be injected intravenously undiluted as a bolus , but should be infused over at least 10 - 60 minutes as directed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Clindamycin dosage modification may not be necessary in patients with renal disease .
In patients with moderate to severe liver disease , prolongation of clindamycin half - life has been found .
However , it was postulated from studies that when given every eight hours , accumulation should rarely occur .
Therefore , dosage modification in patients with liver disease may not be necessary .
However , periodic liver enzyme determinations should be made when treating patients with severe liver disease .
Prescribing clindamycin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for PatientsPatients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including clindamycin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory TestsDuring prolonged therapy periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug InteractionsClindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro .
Because of possible clinical significance , the two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 1 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 1 and 1 . 1 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 5 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if it is clearly needed .
Nursing MothersClindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk in the range of 0 . 7 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL at dosages of 150 mg orally to 600 mg intravenously .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions due to clindamycin in neonates ( see Pediatric Use ) , the decision to discontinue the drug should be made , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseWhen clindamycin phosphate injection is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Usage in Newborns and InfantsThis product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” in premature infants .
The potential for the toxic effect in the pediatric population from chemicals that may leach from the single dose premixed IV preparation in plastic has not been evaluated .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Gastrointestinal : Antibiotic - associated colitis ( see WARNINGS ) , pseudomembranous colitis abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
An unpleasant or metallic taste occasionally has been reported after intravenous administration of the higher doses of clindamycin phosphate .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy .
Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions .
Rare instances of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have been associated with clindamycin .
A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
The usual agents ( epinephrine , corticosteroids , antihistamines ) should be available for emergency treatment of serious reactions .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
( See Hypersensitivity Reactions ) .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Local Reactions : Pain , induration and sterile abscess have been reported after intramuscular injection and thrombophlebitis after intravenous infusion .
Reactions can be minimized or avoided by giving deep intramuscular injections and avoiding prolonged use of indwelling intravenous catheters .
Musculoskeletal : Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported .
Cardiovascular : Rare instances of cardiopulmonary arrest and hypotension have been reported following too rapid intravenous administration .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
OVERDOSAGE Significant mortality was observed in mice at an intravenous dose of 855 mg / kg and in rats at an oral or subcutaneous dose of approximately 2618 mg / kg .
In the mice , convulsions and depression were observed .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued .
( See WARNING box ) .
Adults : Parenteral ( I . M . or I . V . Administration ) : Serious infections due to aerobic gram - positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes ( NOT generally including Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species and Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens ) : 600 to 1200 mg / day in 2 , 3 or 4 equal doses .
More severe infections , particularly those due to proven or suspected Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species , or Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens : 1200 to 2700 mg / day in 2 , 3 or 4 equal doses .
For more serious infections , these doses may have to be increased .
In life - threatening situations due to either aerobes or anaerobes , these doses may be increased .
Doses of as much as 4800 mg daily have been given intravenously to adults .
See Dilution and Infusion Rates section below .
Single I . M . injections of greater than 600 mg are not recommended .
Alternatively , drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous I . V . infusion as follows : To maintain serum clindamycin levels Above 4 mcg / mL Above 5 mcg / mL Above 6 mcg / mL Rapid infusion rate 10 mg / min for 30 min 15 mg / min for 30 min 20 mg / min for 30 min Maintenance infusion rate 0 . 75 mg / min 1 mg / min 1 . 25 mg / min Neonates ( less than 1 month ) : 15 to 20 mg / kg / day in three to four equal doses .
The lower dosage may be adequate for small prematures .
Pediatric patients ( 1 month of age to 16 years ) : Parenteral ( I . M . or I . V . ) administration : 20 to 40 mg / kg / day in 3 or 4 equal doses .
The higher doses would be used for more severe infections .
As an alternative to dosing on a body weight basis , pediatric patients may be dosed on the basis of square meters body surface : 350 mg / m2 / day for serious infections and 450 mg / m2 / day for more severe infections .
Parenteral therapy may be changed to clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride for oral solution or clindamycin hydrochloride capsules when the condition warrants and at the discretion of the physician .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should be continued for at least 10 days .
Dilution and Infusion Rates : Clindamycin phosphate must be diluted prior to I . V . administration .
The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion should not exceed 18 mg per mL .
Infusion rates should not exceed 30 mg per minute .
The usual infusion dilutions and rates are as follows : Dose Diluent Time 300 mg 600 mg 900 mg 1200 mg 50 mL 50 mL 50 - 100 mL 100 mL 10 min 20 min 30 min 40 min Administration of more than 1200 mg in a single 1 - hour infusion is not recommended . Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Dilution and Compatibility : Physical and biological compatibility studies monitored for 24 hours at room temperature have demonstrated no inactivation or incompatibility with the use of clindamycin phosphate in I . V . solutions containing sodium chloride , glucose , calcium or potassium , and solutions containing vitamin B complex in concentrations usually used clinically .
No incompatibility has been demonstrated with the antibiotics cephalothin , kanamycin , gentamicin , penicillin or carbenicillin .
The following drugs are physically incompatible with clindamycin phosphate : ampicillin sodium , phenytoin sodium , barbiturates , aminophylline , calcium gluconate , and magnesium sulfate .
The compatibility and duration of stability of drug admixtures will vary depending on concentration and other conditions .
Physico - Chemical Stability of Diluted Solutions of Clindamycin : Room temperature : 6 , 9 , and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection in glass bottles or minibags , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25 ° C . Also , 18 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in 5 % Dextrose Injection , in minibags , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25 ° C . Refrigeration : 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection in glass bottles or minibags , demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 32 days at 4 ° C . IMPORTANT : This chemical stability information in no way indicates that it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation time .
Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible .
Frozen : 6 , 9 and 12 mg / mL ( equivalent to clindamycin base ) in 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection in minibags demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least eight weeks at - 10 ° C . Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen .
Caution : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin Injection , USP ( 150 mg / mL ) is supplied as follows : List No .
Volume Type Container Clindamycin base Total Content 54868 - 3695 - 0 2 mL Single - dose fliptop vial / 25 vials per tray 300 mg Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Do not refrigerate .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY One year oral toxicity studies in Spartan Sprague − Dawley rats and beagle dogs at dose levels up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 1 and 3 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) have shown clindamycin to be well tolerated .
No appreciable difference in pathological findings has been observed between groups of animals treated with clindamycin and comparable control groups .
Rats receiving clindamycin hydrochloride at 600 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 . 1 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 ) for 6 months tolerated the drug well ; however , dogs dosed at this level ( approximately 7 . 2 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 ) vomited , would not eat , and lost weight .
Revised : March , 2008 REFERENCES • Smith RB , Phillips JP : Evaluation of Clindamycin Hydrochloride and Clindamycin Phosphate in an Aged Population .
Upjohn TR : 8147 - 9122 - 021 , December 1982 .
• Bauer AW , Kirby WMM , Sherris JC , Turck M : Antibiotic susceptibility testing by a standardized single disk method , Am J Clin Path , 45 : 493 - 496 , 1966 .
Standardized Disk Susceptibility Test , Federal Register 37 : 20527 - 29 , 1972 .
• National Committee for Clinical Lab .
Standards .
Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria - Second Edition ; Tentative Standard .
NCCLS publication M11 - T2 .
Villanova , PA ; NCCLS ; 1988 .
Printed in USA EN - 1754 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Clindamycin Injection , USP ( 300 mg / 2 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
