DESCRIPTION Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % is a topical local anesthetic for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight : 330 . 85 Established name : Proparacaine Hydrochloride Chemical name : Benzoic acid , 3 - amino - 4 - propoxy - , 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ester , monohydrochloride .
Each mL contains : Active : proparacaine hydrochloride 5 mg 0 . 5 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Inactives : glycerin ; and purified water .
The pH may be adjusted with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is a rapidly - acting topical anesthetic , with induced anesthesia lasting approximately 10 - 20 minutes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated for procedures in which a topical ophthalmic anesthetic is indicated : corneal anesthesia of short duration , e . g . tonometry , gonioscopy , removal of corneal foreign bodies , and for short corneal and conjunctival procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should be considered contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION - FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic is not recommended .
It may produce permanent corneal opacification with accompanying visual loss .
PRECAUTIONS Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenicity , or possible impairment of fertility in males or females .
PregnancyPregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % .
It is also not known whether proparacaine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Proparacaine hydrochloride should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when proparacaine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness of proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in pediatric patients have been established .
Use of proparacaine hydrochloride is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies in adults and children over the age of twelve , and safety information in neonates and other pediatric patients .
Geriatric UseNo overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Occasional temporary stinging , burning and conjunctival redness may occur with the use of proparacaine .
A rare , severe , immediate - type , apparently hyperallergic corneal reaction characterized by acute , intense and diffuse epithelial keratitis , a gray , ground glass appearance , sloughing of large areas of necrotic epithelium , corneal filaments and , sometimes , iritis with descemetitis has been reported .
Allergic contact dermatitis from proparacaine with drying and fissuring of the fingertips has also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Dosage : Removal of foreign bodies and sutures , and for tonometry : 1 to 2 drops ( in single instillations ) in each eye before operating .
Short corneal and conjunctival procedures : 1 drop in each eye every 5 to 10 minutes for 5 to 7 doses .
NOTE : Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should be clear to straw - color .
If the solution becomes darker , discard the solution .
HOW SUPPLIED Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % is supplied in 15 mL DROP - TAINER ® dispensers .
NDC # 16590 - 195 - 15 Storage : Bottle must be stored in unit carton to protect contents from light .
Store bottles under refrigeration at 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Rx Only © 2004 Falcon Pharmaceuticals , Ltd .
Dist by : FALCON Pharmaceuticals , Ltd .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA Mfd by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA Printed in USA Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 PACKAGE LABEL - PROPARACAINE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION - 0 . 5 % , 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
