1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone Topical Spray is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray as a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped unless directed by the physician .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray should be discontinued when control is achieved .
Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended .
Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
Avoid use on the face , axilla or groin .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray is for external use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
( 2 ) • Desoximetasone Topical Spray should be discontinued when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended .
( 2 ) • Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings , unless directed by the physician ( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face , axilla or groin .
( 2 ) • Desoximetasone Topical Spray is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Topical Spray contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in a clear , colorless liquid .
Spray , 0 . 25 % w / w ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Desoximetasone Topical Spray can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during or after treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) • High potency corticosteroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure and young age may predispose patients to HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Desoximetasone Topical Spray is flammable ; keep away from heat or flame .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Effect on Endocrine System Desoximetasone Topical Spray is a topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
In a study including 21 evaluable subjects 18 years of age or older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis , adrenal suppression was identified in 1 out of 12 subjects having involvement of 10 to 15 % of body surface area ( BSA ) and 2 out of 9 subjects having involvement of > 15 % of BSA after treatment with Desoximetasone Topical Spray twice a day for 28 days .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of high potency steroids , larger treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure and young age .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] 5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , Desoximetasone Topical Spray should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 5 Flammable Contents Desoximetasone Topical Spray is flammable ; keep away from heat or flame .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are application site dryness , application site irritation and application site pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Taro Pharmaceuticals , U . S . A . , Inc . , at 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In randomized , multicenter , prospective vehicle - controlled clinical trials , subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the body applied Desoximetasone Topical Spray or vehicle spray twice daily for 4 weeks .
A total of 149 subjects applied Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
Adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with Desoximetasone Topical Spray were application site dryness ( 2 . 7 % ) , application site irritation ( 2 . 7 % ) and application site pruritus ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Another less common adverse reaction ( < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % ) was folliculitis .
Table 1 .
Number ( % ) of Subjects with Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % b . i . d . ( N = 149 ) Vehicle spray b . i . d . ( N = 135 ) Number of Subjects with Adverse Reactions 13 ( 8 . 7 % ) 18 ( 13 . 3 % ) Application site dryness 4 ( 2 . 7 % ) 7 ( 5 . 2 % ) Application site irritation 4 ( 2 . 7 % ) 5 ( 3 . 7 % ) Application site pruritus 3 ( 2 . 0 % ) 5 ( 3 . 7 % ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Desoximetasone has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration at doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of Desoximetasone Topical Spray based on a body surface area comparison .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Desoximetasone Topical Spray is administered to a nursing woman .
If used during lactation , Desoximetasone Topical Spray should not be applied on the chest to avoid accidental ingestion by the infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Desoximetasone Topical Spray in patients younger than 18 years of age have not been studied ; therefore use in pediatric patients is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Desoximetasone Topical Spray did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Desoximetasone Topical Spray can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 11 DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % contains desoximetasone as the active ingredient .
Desoximetasone is a corticosteroid with the chemical name of pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Desoximetasone has the molecular formula of C22H29FO4 and a molecular weight of 376 . 47 .
The CAS Registry Number is 382 - 67 - 2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Desoximetasone Topical Spray contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in a clear , colorless liquid with the following inactive ingredients : glyceryl oleate , isopropyl alcohol ( 23 . 4 % ) , isopropyl myristate , L - menthol , and mineral oil .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray is co - packaged with a manual spray pump for installation by the pharmacist prior to dispensing to patients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in psoriasis is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor studies performed with Desoximetasone Topical Spray in healthy subjects indicate that it is in the high to super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
The potential for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression was evaluated in a study of 24 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray was applied twice a day for 28 days .
Twenty - one subjects had evaluable serum cortisol levels .
The proportion of subjects demonstrating HPA axis suppression was 8 . 3 % ( 1 out of 12 ) in subjects having psoriasis involvement of 10 to 15 % of body surface area ( BSA ) , and 22 . 2 % ( 2 out of 9 ) in subjects having psoriasis involvement of > 15 % of their BSA .
In this study HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL 30 - min post cosyntropin stimulation .
In the 2 subjects with available follow - up values , suppression reversed 28 days after the end of treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Plasma concentrations of desoximetasone were measured at two single random time points in the HPA axis suppression trial in 24 subjects with psoriasis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The mean ( % Coefficient of Variation ) concentration of desoximetasone was 449 pg / mL ( 86 % ) at Day 14 and 678 pg / mL ( 135 % ) at Day 28 .
The concentration time profile following application of Desoximetasone Topical Spray is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
In a 13 - week repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of desoximetasone spray at concentrations of 0 . 001 , 0 . 005 and 0 . 02 % BID ( which corresponds to dose levels of 0 . 01 , 0 . 05 , or 0 . 2 mg / kg / dose BID , respectively ) resulted in a toxicity profile consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids , including adrenal atrophy and histopathological changes in several organ systems indicative of severe immune suppression .
A no observable adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) could not be determined in this study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Desoximetasone revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of male or female fertility was observed at subcutaneous desoximetasone doses up to 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 mg / m2 / day ) in Sprague - Dawley rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two multi - center , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials were conducted in 239 subjects aged 18 years and older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the body .
In both trials , randomized subjects applied Desoximetasone Topical Spray or vehicle spray to the affected areas twice daily for 4 weeks .
Enrolled subjects had a minimum body surface area of involvement of 10 % , and a Physician ' s Global Assessment score ( PGA ) of 3 ( moderate ) or 4 ( severe ) .
Efficacy was assessed at Week 4 as the proportion of subjects who were considered a Clinical Success ( " clear " ( 0 ) or " almost clear " ( 1 ) according to the PGA scale ) .
Table 2 presents the efficacy results .
Table 2 .
Number of Subjects ( % ) with Clinical Success ( scored as clear or almost clear ) at Week 4 .
Parameter Trial 1 Trial 2 Desoximetasone Vehicle Desoximetasone Vehicle N = 59 N = 60 N = 60 N = 60 Clinical Success 18 ( 30 . 5 % ) 3 ( 5 . 0 % ) 32 ( 53 . 3 % ) 11 ( 18 . 3 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied / Storage Desoximetasone Topical Spray , 0 . 25 % is a clear colorless liquid supplied in white , opaque bottles with white , opaque screw caps in the following sizes : • 30 mL • 50 mL • 100 mL ( 2 - 50 mL bottles ) • 100 mL • ( NDC 51672 - 1396 - 3 ) • ( NDC 51672 - 1396 - 4 ) • ( NDC 51672 - 1396 - 6 ) • ( NDC 51672 - 1396 - 7 ) Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Spray is flammable ; avoid heat , flame or smoking when using this product .
Each unit is co - packaged with a manual spray pump for installation by the pharmacist .
16 . 2 Instructions for the Pharmacist • Remove the spray pump from the wrapper • Remove and discard the cap from the bottle • Keeping the bottle vertical , insert the spray pump into the bottle and turn clockwise until well - fastened • Dispense the bottle with the spray pump inserted • Label the bottle with " discard the product 30 days after dispensing " 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Inform patients of the following : • Use this medication as directed by the physician .
• Desoximetasone Topical Spray is for external use only .
Avoid use on the face , axilla or groin .
• Do not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Do not bandage or otherwise cover or wrap the treated skin so as to be occlusive .
• Report any signs of local or systemic adverse reactions to the physician .
• Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products with Desoximetasone Topical Spray without first consulting with the physician .
• Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks , contact the physician .
• This medication is flammable ; avoid heat , flame , or smoking when applying this product .
• Discard this product 30 days after dispensed by pharmacist .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : December 2019 PPK - 8767 - 1 110 Instructions for Use Desoximetasone ( des ox '' i met ' a sone ) Topical Spray Important information : Desoximetasone Topical Spray is for use on skin only .
Do not get Desoximetasone Topical Spray near or in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
Read the Instructions for Use that comes with Desoximetasone Topical Spray before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Parts of Desoximetasone Topical Spray bottle ( See Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A How to apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray : Step 1 : Remove the cap from the pump top .
Step 2 : Hold the bottle in an upright position while pointing the opening of the pump top in the direction of the affected area .
To spray , push down on the pump top .
Apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray to the affected area as instructed by your doctor .
( See Figure B ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 3 : Spray only enough Desoximetasone Topical Spray to cover the affected area , for example , the elbow ( See Figure C ) .
Rub in Desoximetasone Topical Spray gently .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Repeat Steps 2 and 3 to apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray to other affected areas as instructed by your doctor .
Step 4 : After applying Desoximetasone Topical Spray , place the cap back onto the pump top .
( See Figure D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Issued : April , 2018 PPK - 8768 - 0 167 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT INFORMATION Desoximetasone ( des ox '' i met ' a sone ) Topical Spray Issued : April , 2018 PPK - 8768 - 0 167 Important information : Desoximetasone Topical Spray is for use on skin only .
Do not get Desoximetasone Topical Spray near or in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
What is Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
• Desoximetasone Topical Spray is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat plaque psoriasis of the body in people 18 years of age and older .
• You should not use Desoximetasone Topical Spray on your face , underarms ( armpits ) , or groin areas .
• It is not known if Desoximetasone Topical Spray is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Desoximetasone Topical Spray should not be used in children under 18 years of age .
Before you use Desoximetasone Topical Spray , tell your doctor if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of the ingredients in Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
• have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before you use Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
• have thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) at the treatment site • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Desoximetasone Topical Spray will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Desoximetasone Topical Spray passes into your breast milk .
Do not apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray to your chest area if you are breastfeeding .
This will help to prevent your baby from accidentally getting Desoximetasone Topical Spray into the mouth .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
What should I avoid while using Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
Desoximetasone Topical Spray is flammable .
Avoid heat , flames or smoking while applying Desoximetasone Topical Spray to your skin .
How should I use Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
• Use Desoximetasone Topical Spray exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray 2 times a day .
• Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area .
• Desoximetasone Topical Spray should be used for the shortest amount of time needed to treat your plaque psoriasis .
Tell your doctor if your skin condition is not getting better after 4 weeks of using Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
You should not use Desoximetasone Topical Spray for longer than 4 weeks .
• Wash your hands after applying Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
• Safely throw away ( discard ) any unused Desoximetasone Topical Spray after 30 days .
See the " Instructions for Use " at the end of the Patient Information for detailed information about the right way to apply Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
What are the possible side effects of Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
Desoximetasone Topical Spray may cause serious side effects , including : • Desoximetasone Topical Spray can pass through your skin .
Too much Desoximetasone Topical Spray passing through your skin can cause your adrenal glands to stop working .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check for adrenal gland problems .
The most common side effects of Desoximetasone Topical Spray include dryness , irritation and itching of skin at the treated site .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
For more information , ask your doctor .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
For more information go to dailymed . nlm . nih . gov .
How should I store Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
• Store Desoximetasone Topical Spray at room temperature between 68 ˚ F to 77 ˚ F ( 20 ˚ C to 25 ˚ C ) .
• Keep Desoximetasone Topical Spray and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Desoximetasone Topical Spray .
• Do not use Desoximetasone Topical Spray for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Desoximetasone Topical Spray that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Desoximetasone Topical Spray ?
Active ingredient : desoximetasone Inactive ingredients : glyceryl oleate , isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , L - menthol , and mineral oil Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Bottle Carton 100 mL NDC 51672 - 1396 - 7 Desoximetasone Topical Spray 0 . 25 % For Topical Use Only NOT FOR ORAL , OPHTHALMIC , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
