DESCRIPTION Isradipine is a calcium antagonist available for oral administration in capsules containing 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg .
The structural formula of isradipine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemically , isradipine is 3 , 5 - Pyridinedicarboxylic acid , 4 - ( 4 - benzofurazanyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 2 , 6 - dimethyl - , methyl 1 - methylethyl ester .
Isradipine is a yellow , fine crystalline powder which is odorless or has a faint characteristic odor .
Isradipine is practically insoluble in water ( < 10 mg / L at 37ºC ) , but is soluble in ethanol and freely soluble in acetone , chloroform and methylene chloride .
isradipine Active Ingredient : colloidal silicon dioxide , red iron oxide ( 2 . 5 mg capsule only , yellow iron oxide , gelatin , anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , sodium lauryl sulfate , starch ( corn ) , titanium dioxide , black ink : black iron oxide , shellac and potassium hydroxide .
Inactive Ingredients : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Isradipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker .
It binds to calcium channels with high affinity and specificity and inhibits calcium flux into cardiac and smooth muscle .
The effects observed in mechanistic experiments and studied in intact animals and man are compatible with this mechanism of action and are typical of the class .
in vitro Except for diuretic activity , the mechanism of which is not clearly understood , the pharmacodynamic effects of isradipine observed in whole animals can also be explained by calcium channel blocking activity , especially dilating effects in arterioles which reduce systemic resistance and lower blood pressure , with a small increase in resting heart rate .
Although like other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers , isradipine has negative inotropic effects studies conducted in intact anesthetized animals have shown that the vasodilating effect occurs at doses lower than those which affect contractility .
In patients with normal ventricular function , isradipine ’ s afterload reducing properties lead to some increase in cardiac output .
in vitro , Effects in patients with impaired ventricular function have not been fully studied .
Clinical Effects Dose - related reductions in supine and standing blood pressure are achieved within 2 - 3 hours following single oral doses of 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg , and 20 mg isradipine , with a duration of action ( at least 50 % of peak response ) of more than 12 hours following administration of the highest dose .
Isradipine has been shown in controlled , double - blind clinical trials to be an effective antihypertensive agent when used as monotherapy , or when added to therapy with thiazide - type diuretics .
During chronic administration , divided doses ( b . i . d . ) in the range of 5 - 20 mg daily have been shown to be effective , with response at trough ( prior to next dose ) over 50 % of the peak blood pressure effect .
The response is dose - related between 5 - 10 mg daily .
Isradipine is equally effective in reducing supine , sitting , and standing blood pressure .
On chronic administration , increases in resting pulse rate averaged about 3 - 5 beats / min .
these increases were not dose - related .
Hemodynamics In man , peripheral vasodilation produced by isradipine is reflected by decreased systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac output .
Hemodynamic studies conducted in patients with normal left ventricular function produced , following intravenous isradipine administration , increases in cardiac index , stroke volume index , coronary sinus blood flow , heart rate and peak positive left ventricular dP / dt .
Systemic , coronary , and pulmonary vascular resistance was decreased .
These studies were conducted with doses of isradipine which produced clinically significant decreases in blood pressure .
The clinical consequences of these hemodynamic effects , if any , have not been evaluated .
Effects on heart rate are variable , dependent upon rate of administration and presence of underlying cardiac condition .
While increases in both peak positive dP / dt and LV ejection fraction are seen when intravenous isradipine is given , it is impossible to conclude that these represent a positive inotropic effect due to simultaneous changes in preload and afterload .
In patients with coronary artery disease undergoing atrial pacing during cardiac catheterization , intravenous isradipine diminished abnormalities of systolic performance .
In patients with moderate left ventricular dysfunction , oral and intravenous isradipine in doses which reduce blood pressure by 12 % to 30 % , resulted in improvement in cardiac index without increase in heart rate , and with no change or reduction in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure .
Combination of isradipine and propranolol did not significantly affect left ventricular dP / dt max .
The clinical consequences of these effects have not been evaluated .
Electrophysiologic Effects In general , no detrimental effects on the cardiac conduction system were seen with the use of isradipine .
Electrophysiologic studies were conducted on patients with normal sinus and atrioventricular node function .
Intravenous isradipine in doses which reduce systolic blood pressure did not affect PR , QRS , AH * or HV * intervals .
No changes were seen in Wenckebach cycle length , atrial , and ventricular refractory periods .
Slight prolongation of QTc interval of 3 % was seen in one study .
Effects on sinus node recovery time ( CSNRT ) were mild or not seen .
In patients with sick sinus syndrome , at doses which significantly reduced blood pressure , intravenous isradipine resulted in no depressant effect on sinus and atrioventricular node function .
* AH = conduction time from low right atrium to His bundle deflection , or AV nodal conduction time ; HV = conduction time through His bundle and the bundle branch - Purkinje system .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Isradipine is 90 % - 95 % absorbed and is subject to extensive first - pass metabolism , resulting in a bioavailability of about 15 % - 24 % .
Isradipine is detectable in plasma within 20 minutes after administration of single oral doses of 2 . 5 - 20 mg , and peak concentrations of approximately 1 ng / mL / mg dosed occur about 1 . 5 hours after drug administration .
Administration of isradipine with food significantly increases the time to peak by about an hour , but has no effect on the total bioavailability ( area under the curve ) of the drug .
Isradipine is 95 % bound to plasma proteins .
Both peak plasma concentration and AUC exhibit a linear relationship to dose over the 0 - 20 mg dose range .
The elimination of isradipine is biphasic with an early half - life of 1 ½ - 2 hours , and a terminal half - life of about 8 hours .
The total body clearance of isradipine is 1 . 4 L / min and the apparent volume od disturbance is 3 L / kg .
Isradipine is completely metabolized prior to excretion , and no unchanged drug is detected in the urine .
Six metabolites have been characterized in blood and urine , with the mono acids of the pyridine derivative and a cyclic lactone product accounting for > 75 % fo the material identified .
Approximately 60 % - 65 % of an administered dose is excreted in the urine and 25 % - 30 % in the feces .
Mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 80 mL / min ) increases the bioavailability ( AUC ) of isradipine by 45 % .
Progressive deterioration reverses this trend , and patients with severe renal failure ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) who have been on hemodialysis show a 20 % to 50 % lower AUC than healthy volunteers .
No pharmacokinetic information is available in drug therapy during hemodialysis .
In elderly patients C and AUC are increased by 13 % and 40 % , respectively ; in patients with hepatic impairment , C and AUC are increased by 32 % and 52 % , respectively ( see ) .
maxmaxDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Isradipine is indicated in the management of hypertension .
It may be used alone or concurrently with thiazide - type diuretics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Isradipine is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation .
WARNINGS None PRECAUTIONS General Because isradipine decreases peripheral resistance , like other calcium blockers isradipine may occasionally produce symptomatic hypotension .
However , symptoms like syncope and severe dizziness have rarely been reported in hypertensive patients administered isradipine , particularly at the initial recommended doses ( see ) .
Blood Pressure : DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Although acute hemodynamic studies in patients with congestive heart failure have shown that isradipine reduced afterload without impairing myocardial contractility , it has a negative inotropic effect at high doses and possibly in some patients .
Caution should be exercised when using isradipine in congestive heart failure patients , particularly in combination with a beta - blocker .
Use in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure : in vitro Drug Interactions Isradipine has been safely coadministered with nitroglycerin .
Nitroglycerin : A study in normal healthy volunteers has shown that concomitant administration of isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide does not result in altered pharmacokinetics of either drug .
In a study in hypertensive patients , addition of isradipine to existing hydrochlorothiazide therapy did not result in any unexpected adverse effects , and isradipine had an additional antihypertensive effect .
Hydrochlorothiazide : In a single dose study in normal volunteers , co - administration of propranolol had a small effect on the rate but no effect on the extent of isradipine bioavailability .
Significant increases in AUC ( 27 % ) and C ( 58 % ) and decreases in t ( 23 % ) of propranolol were noted in this study .
However , concomitant administration of 5 mg b . i . d . isradipine and 40 mg b . i . d . propranolol to healthy volunteers under steady - state conditions had no relevant effect on either drug ’ s bioavailability .
AUC and C differences were < 20 % between isradipine given singly and in combination with propranolol , and between propranolol given singly and in combination with isradipine .
Propranolol : maxmaxmax In a study in healthy volunteers , a one - week course of cimetidine at 400 mg b . i . d . with a single 5 mg dose of isradipine on the sixth day showed an increase in isradipine mean peak plasma concentrations ( 36 % ) and significant increase in area under the curve ( 50 % ) .
If isradipine therapy is initiated in a patient currently receiving cimetidine , careful monitoring for adverse reactions is advised and downward dose adjustment may be required .
Cimetidine : In a study with healthy volunteers , a six - day course of rifampicin at 600 mg / day followed by a single 5 mg dose of isradipine resulted in a reduction in isradipine levels to below detectable limits .
If rifampicin therapy is required , isradipine concentrations and therapeutic effects are likely to be markedly reduced or abolished as a consequence of increased metabolism and higher clearance of isradipine .
Rifampicin : In a study with healthy volunteers , no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction between isradipine and racemic warfarin was seen when two single oral doses of warfarin ( 0 . 7 mg / kg body weight ) were administered during 11 days of multiple - dose treatment with 5 mg b . i . d . isradipine .
Neither racemic warfarin nor isradipine binding to plasma proteins was altered by the addition of the other drug .
Warfarin : in vitro The concomitant administration of isradipine and digoxin in a single - dose pharmacokinetic study did not affect renal , nonrenal and total body clearance of digoxin .
Digoxin : Severe hypotension has been reported during fentanyl anesthesia with concomitant use of a beta - blocker and a calcium channel blocker .
Even though such interactions have not been seen in clinical studies with isradipine , an increased volume of circulating fluids might be required if such an interaction were to occur .
Fentanyl Anesthesia : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Treatment of male rats for 2 years with 2 . 5 , 12 . 5 , or 62 . 5 mg / kg / day isradipine admixed with the diet ( approximately 6 , 31 , and 156 times the maximum recommended daily dose based on a 50 kg man ) resulted in dose dependent increases in the incidence of benign Leydig cell tumors and testicular hyperplasia relative to untreated control animals .
These findings , which were replicated in a subsequent experiment , may have been indirectly related to an effect of isradipine on circulating gonadotropin levels in the rats ; a comparable endocrine effect was not evident in male patients receiving therapeutic doses of the drug on a chronic basis .
Treatment of mice for two years with 2 . 5 , 15 , or 80 mg / kg / day isradipine in the diet ( approximately 6 , 38 , and 200 times the maximum recommended dose based on a 50 kg man ) showed no evidence of oncogenicity .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential based on the results of a battery of mutagenic tests .
No effect on fertility was observed in male and female rats treated with up to 60 mg / kg / day isradipine .
Pregnancy Isradipine was administered orally to rats and rabbits during organogenesis .
Treatment of pregnant rats with doses of 6 , 20 , or 60 mg / kg / day produced a significant reduction in maternal weight gain during treatment with the highest dose ( 150 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ) but with no lasting effects on the mother or the offspring .
Treatment of pregnant rabbits with doses of 1 , 3 , or 10 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 5 , 7 . 5 , and 25 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ) produced decrements in maternal body weight gain and increased fetal resorption at the two higher doses .
There was no evidence of embryotoxicity at doses which were not maternotoxic and no evidence of teratogenicity at any dose tested .
In a peri / postnatal administration study in rats , reduced maternal body weight gain during late pregnancy at oral doses of 20 and 60 mg / kg / day isradipine was associated with reduced birth weights and decreased peri and postnatal pup survival .
Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
The use of isradipine during pregnancy should only be considered if the potential benefit outweighs potential risks .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether isradipine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for adverse effects of isradipine on nursing infants , a decision should be made as to whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Except for headache , which is not clearly drug - related ( see previous table ) , the more frequent adverse reactions listed show little change , or increase slightly , in frequency over time , as shown in the following table : In multiple dose U . S . studies in hypertension , 1228 patients received isradipine alone or in combination with other agents , principally a thiazide diuretic , 934 of them in controlled comparisons with placebo or active agents .
An additional 652 patients ( which includes 374 normal volunteers ) received isradipine in U . S . studies of conditions other than hypertension , and 1321 patients received isradipine in non - U . S . studies .
About 500 patients received isradipine in long - term hypertension studies , 410 of them for at least 6 months .
The adverse reaction rates given below are principally based on controlled hypertension studies , but rarer serious events are derived from all exposures to isradipine , including foreign marketing experience .
Most adverse reactions were mild and related to the vasodilatory effects of isradipine ( dizziness , edema , palpitations , flushing , tachycardia ) , and many were transient .
About 5 % of isradipine patients left studies prematurely because of adverse reactions ( vs . 3 % of placebo patients and 6 % of active control patients ) , principally due to headache , edema , dizziness , palpitations , and gastrointestinal disturbances .
The following table shows the most common adverse reactions , volunteered or elicited , considered by the investigator to be at least possibly drug related .
The results for the isradipine treated patients are presented for all doses pooled together ( reported by 1 % or greater of patients receiving any dose of isradipine ) , and also for the two treatment regimens most applicable to the treatment of hypertension with isradipine : ( 1 ) initial and maintenance dose of 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . , and ( 2 ) initial dose of 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . followed by maintenance dose of 5 mg b . i . d . Isradipine Adverse Experience All Doses N = 934 % 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . 199 % 5 mg b . i . d . † 150 % 10 mg b . i . d . †† 59 % Placebo % Active Controls * 414 % Headache Dizziness Edema Palpitations 13 . 7 7 . 3 7 . 2 4 . 0 12 . 6 8 . 0 3 . 5 1 . 0 10 . 7 5 . 3 8 . 7 4 . 7 22 . 0 3 . 4 8 . 5 5 . 1 14 . 1 4 . 4 3 . 0 1 . 4 9 . 4 8 . 2 2 . 9 1 . 5 Fatigue Flushing Chest Pain Nausea 3 . 9 2 . 6 2 . 4 1 . 8 2 . 5 3 . 0 2 . 5 1 . 0 2 . 0 2 . 0 2 . 7 2 . 7 8 . 5 5 . 1 1 . 7 5 . 1 0 . 3 0 . 0 2 . 4 1 . 7 6 . 3 1 . 2 2 . 9 3 . 1 Dyspnea Abdominal Discomfort Tachycardia Rash 1 . 8 1 . 7 1 . 5 1 . 5 0 . 5 0 . 0 1 . 0 1 . 5 2 . 7 3 . 3 1 . 3 2 . 0 3 . 4 1 . 7 3 . 4 1 . 7 1 . 0 1 . 7 0 . 3 0 . 3 2 . 2 3 . 9 0 . 5 0 . 7 Pollakiuria Weakness Vomiting Diarrhea 1 . 5 1 . 2 1 . 1 1 . 1 2 . 0 0 . 0 1 . 0 0 . 0 1 . 3 0 . 7 1 . 3 2 . 7 3 . 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 3 . 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 3 2 . 0 < 1 . 0 1 . 2 0 . 2 1 . 9 † Initial dose of 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . followed by maintenance dose of 5 mg b . i . d . †† Initial dose of 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . followed by sequential titration to 5 mg b . i . d . , 7 . 5 mg b . i . d . , and maintenance dose of 10 mg b . i . d . * Propranolol , prazosin , hydrochlorothiazide , enalapril , captopril .
Incidence Rates for Isradipine ( All Doses ) by Week ( % ) Week N 1 694 2 906 3 649 4 847 5 432 6 494 Adverse Reaction Headache Dizziness Edema Palpitations Fatigue Flushing 6 . 5 1 . 6 1 . 2 1 . 2 0 . 4 1 . 2 6 . 1 1 . 9 2 . 5 1 . 3 1 . 0 1 . 3 5 . 2 1 . 7 3 . 2 1 . 4 1 . 4 2 . 0 5 . 2 2 . 2 3 . 2 1 . 9 1 . 2 1 . 4 5 . 8 2 . 3 5 . 3 2 . 1 1 . 2 2 . 1 4 . 5 2 . 0 5 . 5 1 . 4 1 . 6 1 . 4 Week N 7 153 8 377 9 261 10 362 11 107 12 105 Adverse Reaction Headache Dizziness Edema Palpitations Fatigue Flushing 2 . 0 2 . 0 5 . 9 1 . 3 2 . 0 3 . 3 2 . 7 1 . 9 5 . 0 0 . 8 2 . 7 1 . 3 1 . 9 2 . 3 4 . 6 0 . 8 1 . 5 1 . 1 2 . 8 3 . 9 4 . 7 1 . 7 1 . 4 0 . 8 2 . 8 4 . 7 3 . 8 1 . 9 0 . 9 0 . 0 3 . 8 3 . 8 3 . 8 2 . 9 1 . 9 0 . 0 Edema , palpitations , fatigue , and flushing appear to be dose - related , especially at the higher doses of 15 - 20 mg / day .
In open - label , long - term studies of up to two years in duration , the adverse events reported were generally the same as those reported in the short - term controlled trials .
The overall frequencies of these adverse events were slightly higher in the long - term than in the controlled studies , but as in the controlled trials most adverse reactions were mild and transient .
The following adverse experiences were reported in 0 . 5 % - 1 % of the isradipine - treated patients in hypertensive studies , or are rare .
More serious events from this and other data sources , including postmarketing exposure , are shown in italics .
The relationship of these adverse events to isradipine administration is uncertain .
pruritus , Skin : urticaria cramps of legs / feet Musculoskeletal : cough Respiratory : shortness of breath , hypotension , Cardiovascular : atrial fibrillation , ventricular fibrillation , myocardial infarction , heart failure abdominal discomfort , constipation , diarrhea Gastrointestinal : nocturia Urogenital : drowsiness , insomnia , lethargy , nervousness , impotence , decreased libido , depression , , ( which includes numbness and tingling ) , Nervous System : syncopeparesthesiatransient ischemic attack , stroke hyperhidrosis , visual disturbance , dry mouth , numbness Autonomic : throat discomfort , Miscellaneous : leukopenia , elevated liver function tests .
OVERDOSAGE Minimal empirical data are available on isradipine overdosage .
Three individual suicide attempts with dosages of isradipine reported to be from 20 mg up to 100 mg resulted in lethargy , sinus tachycardia and , in the case of the person ingesting 100 mg , transient hypotension which responded to fluid therapy .
A foreign report of the ingestion of 200 mg of isradipine with ethanol resulted only in flushing , tachycardia with ST depression on ECG , and hypotension , all of which were reversible .
The ingestion of 5 mg isradipine by a 22 - month child and the accidental ingestion of 100 mg of isradipine by a 58 - year old female did not result in any sequelae .
Available data suggest that , as with other dihydropyridines , overdosage with isradipine might result in excessive peripheral vasodilation with subsequent marked and probably prolonged systemic hypotension , and tachycardia .
Emesis , gastric lavage , administration of activated charcoal followed in 30 minutes by a saline cathartic would be reasonable therapy .
Isradipine is highly protein - bound and not removed by hemodialysis .
Overdosage characterized by clinically significant hypotension should be treated with active cardiovascular support including monitoring of cardiac and respiratory function , elevation of lower extremities , and attention to circulating fluid volume and urine output .
A vasoconstrictor ( such as epinephrine , norepinephrine , or levarterenol ) may be helpful in restoring a normotensive state , provided that there is no contraindication to its use .
Refractory hypotension or AV conduction disturbances may be treated with intravenous calcium salts , or glucagon .
Cimetidine should be withheld in such instances due to the risk of further increasing plasma isradipine levels .
Significant lethality was observed in mice given oral doses of over 200 mg / kg and rabbits given about 50 mg / kg of isradipine .
Rats tolerated doses of over 2000 mg / kg without effects on survival .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of isradipine should be individualized .
The recommended initial dose of isradipine is 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . alone or in combination with a thiazide diuretic .
An antihypertensive response usually occurs within 2 - 3 hours .
Maximal response may require 2 - 4 weeks .
If a satisfactory reduction in blood pressure does not occur after this period , the dose may be adjusted in increments of 5 mg / day at 2 - 4 week intervals up to a maximum of 20 mg / day .
Most patients , however , show no additional response to doses above 10 mg / day , and adverse effects are increased in frequency above 10 mg / day .
The bioavailability of isradipine ( increased AUC ) is increased in elderly patients ( above 65 years of age ) , patients with hepatic functional impairment , and patients with mild renal impairment .
Ordinarily , the starting dose should still be 2 . 5 mg b . i . d . in these patients .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 1333 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 CAPSULES Isradipine 5 MG CAP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
