1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ivermectin cream , 1 % is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea .
Ivermectin cream , 1 % is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected areas of the face once daily .
Use a pea - size amount for each area of the face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) that is affected .
Spread as a thin layer , avoiding the eyes and lips .
Ivermectin cream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply to the affected areas once daily .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 1 % .
Each gram of ivermectin cream contains 10 mg of ivermectin , USP in a white to pale yellow cream base .
Ivermectin cream is supplied in tubes of 45 g . Cream , 1 % , ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials with ivermectin cream the most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≤ 1 % ) included skin burning sensation and skin irritation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During clinical trials , 2 , 047 subjects with inflammatory lesions of rosacea received ivermectin cream once daily .
A total of 1 , 555 subjects were treated once daily for more than 12 weeks , and 519 for approximately one year .
Adverse reactions , reported in ≤ 1 % of subjects treated with ivermectin cream for at least 3 months in vehicle - controlled clinical trials , included skin burning sensation and skin irritation .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Local adverse reactions : contact dermatitis and allergic dermatitis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies have shown that ivermectin cream , at therapeutic concentrations , neither inhibits nor induces cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) enzymes .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data on the use of ivermectin , including ivermectin cream , in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , ivermectin induced adverse developmental outcomes when orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses 1909 or 354 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
These orally administered doses were maternally toxic to pregnant rats and rabbits .
In a pre - and postnatal developmental study in rats , neonatal toxicity and adverse effects on behavioral development were observed when ivermectin was orally administered to pregnant females during gestation and lactation ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data No adequate and well - controlled trials of ivermectin cream have been conducted in pregnant women .
Retrospective observational studies evaluated pregnancy outcomes in over 700 women in various stages of pregnancy who received oral ivermectin for the treatment of soil - transmitted helminths in rural Africa .
In an additional , randomized open - label trial , 397 pregnant women in their second trimester received a single dose of oral ivermectin , or ivermectin plus albendazole , for soil - transmitted helminths .
When compared with a pregnant , untreated population , no differences in pregnancy outcomes were observed between the treated and untreated populations .
These studies cannot definitively establish or exclude any drug - associated risk during pregnancy , because either the timing of administration during gestation was not accurately ascertained or the administration occurred only during the second trimester .
Animal Data Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Oral doses of 1 . 5 , 4 , and 12 mg / kg / day ivermectin were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rats .
Maternal death occurred at 12 mg / kg / day [ 1909 times the MRHD based on area under the curve ( AUC ) comparison ] .
Cleft palate occurred in the fetuses from the 12 mg / kg / day ( 1909 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) group .
No treatment related embryofetal toxicity or malformations were noted at 4 mg / kg / day ( 708 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Oral doses of 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 , 2 . 5 , 3 . 5 and 4 . 5 mg / kg / day ivermectin were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rabbits .
Maternal death occurred at doses ≥ 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 72 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Carpal flexure occurred in the fetuses from the 4 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 354 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) group .
Fetal weight decrease was noted at 3 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 146 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
No treatment related embryofetal toxicity or malformations were noted at 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 72 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
A pre - and post - natal development study was conducted in rats .
Oral doses of 1 , 2 and 4 mg / kg / day ivermectin were administered to pregnant female rats during gestational days 6 to 20 and lactation days 2 to 20 .
Neonatal death occurred at doses ≥ 2 mg / kg / day .
Behavior development of newborn rats was adversely affected at all doses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The presence of ivermectin in human milk following topical administration of ivermectin has not been evaluated .
There are no data available regarding the effects of ivermectin on milk production .
Published literature suggests that ivermectin was detectable in human milk in 4 lactating women after a single 150 mcg / kg oral dose of ivermectin .
However , there is insufficient information from this report to determine the effects of ivermectin on the breastfed infant .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ivermectin cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ivermectin cream or from the underlying maternal conditions .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ivermectin cream in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1 , 371 subjects in the two pivotal clinical studies of ivermectin cream , 170 ( 12 . 4 % ) were 65 and over , while 37 ( 2 . 7 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE In accidental or significant exposure to unknown quantities of veterinary formulations of ivermectin in humans , either by ingestion , inhalation , injection , or exposure to body surfaces , the following adverse effects have been reported most frequently : rash , edema , headache , dizziness , asthenia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Other adverse effects that have been reported include : seizure , ataxia , dyspnea , abdominal pain , paresthesia , urticaria , and contact dermatitis .
In case of accidental ingestion , supportive therapy , if indicated , should include parenteral fluids and electrolytes , respiratory support ( oxygen and mechanical ventilation if necessary ) and pressor agents if clinically significant hypotension is present .
Induction of emesis and / or gastric lavage as soon as possible , followed by purgatives and other routine anti - poison measures , may be indicated if needed to prevent absorption of ingested material .
11 DESCRIPTION Ivermectin cream , 1 % is a white to pale yellow hydrophilic cream intended for topical use .
Each gram of ivermectin cream contains 10 mg of ivermectin , USP .
Ivermectin , USP is a semi - synthetic derivative isolated from the fermentation of Streptomyces avermitilis that belongs to the avermectin family of macrocyclic lactones .
Ivermectin , USP is a mixture containing not less than 95 . 0 % and not more than 102 . 0 % of 5 - O - demethyl - 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin A1a plus 5 - O - demethyl - 25 - de ( 1 - methylpropyl ) - 25 - ( 1 - methylethyl ) - 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin A1a , generally referred to as 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin B1a and B1b or H2B1a and H2B1b , respectively ; and the ratio ( calculated by area percentage ) of component H2B1a / ( H2B1a + H2B1b ) ) is not less than 90 . 0 % .
The respective molecular formulas of H2B1a and H2B1b are C48H74O14 and C47H72O14 with molecular weights of 875 . 10 and 861 . 07 respectively .
The structural formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Component H2B1a : R = C2H5 , Component H2B1b : R = CH3 .
Ivermectin cream , 1 % contains the following inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , carbomer homopolymer type c , di - isopropyl adipate , edetate disodium , hexylene glycol , methylparaben , oleyl alcohol , polysorbate 80 , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sodium hydroxide , and sorbitan tristearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ivermectin cream in treating rosacea lesions is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At therapeutic doses , ivermectin cream is not expected to prolong QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absorption of ivermectin from ivermectin cream was evaluated in a clinical trial in 15 adult male and female subjects with severe papulopustular rosacea applying 1 g ivermectin cream , 1 % once daily .
At steady state ( after 2 weeks of treatment ) , the highest mean ± standard deviation ) plasma concentrations of ivermectin peaked ( Tmax ) at 10 ± 8 hours post - dose , the maximum concentration ( Cmax ) was 2 . 10 ± 1 . 04 ng / mL ( range : 0 . 69 to 4 . 02 ng / mL ) and the area under the concentration curve ( AUC0 - 24 hr ) was 36 . 14 ± 15 . 56 ng . hr / mL ( range : 13 . 69 to 75 . 16 ng • hr / mL ) .
In addition , systemic exposure assessment in longer treatment duration ( Phase 3 studies ) showed that there was no plasma accumulation of ivermectin over the 52 - week treatment period .
Distribution An in vitro study demonstrated that ivermectin is greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins and is bound primarily to human serum albumin .
No significant binding of ivermectin to erythrocytes was observed .
Metabolism In vitro studies using human hepatic microsomes and recombinant CYP450 enzymes have shown that ivermectin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 .
In vitro studies show that ivermectin at therapeutic concentrations does not inhibit the CYP450 isoenzymes 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , 3A4 or 4A11 , or induce 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 or 3A4 .
Excretion The apparent terminal half - life averaged 6 . 5 days ( mean ± standard deviation : 155 ± 40 hours , range 92 to 238 hours ) in patients receiving a once daily cutaneous application of ivermectin cream for 28 days .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal mouse carcinogenicity study , ivermectin was administered to CD - 1 mice at topical doses of 1 , 3 , and 10 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 % , 0 . 3 % and 1 % ivermectin cream applied at 2 mL / kg / day ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 10 mg / kg / day ( 747 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
In a 2 - year oral rat carcinogenicity study , ivermectin was administered to Wistar rats at gavage doses of 1 , 3 , and 9 mg / kg / day .
A statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma was noted in males treated with 9 mg / kg / day ( 1766 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) ivermectin .
The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown .
No drug - related tumors were noted in females up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 9 mg / kg / day ( 1959 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in males at doses ≤ 3 mg / kg / day ( 599 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Ivermectin revealed no evidence of genotoxic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( the Ames test and the L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( rat micronucleus assay ) .
In a fertility study , oral doses of 0 . 1 , 1 , and 9 mg / kg / day ivermectin were administered to male and female rats .
Mortality occurred at 9 mg / kg / day ( 1027 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
The precoital period was generally prolonged at 9 mg / kg / day .
No treatment related effects on fertility or mating performance were noted at doses ≤ 1 mg / kg / day ( 68 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Ivermectin cream applied once daily at bedtime was evaluated in the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea in two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials , which were identical in design .
The trials were conducted in 1 , 371 subjects aged 18 years and older who were treated once daily for 12 weeks with either ivermectin cream or vehicle cream .
Overall , 96 % of subjects were Caucasian and 67 % were female .
Using the 5 - point Investigator Global Assessment ( IGA ) scale ( 0 = clear , 1 = almost clear , 2 = mild , 3 = moderate , 4 = severe ) , 79 % of subjects were scored as moderate ( IGA = 3 ) and 21 % scored as severe ( IGA = 4 ) at baseline .
The co - primary efficacy endpoints in both pivotal trials were the success rate based on the IGA outcome ( percentage of subjects “ clear ” and “ almost clear ” ) and absolute change from baseline in inflammatory lesion counts at Week 12 .
Table 1 presents the co - primary efficacy results at Week 12 .
Ivermectin cream was more effective than vehicle cream on the co - primary efficacy endpoints starting from 4 weeks of treatment in both studies , see Figures 1 through 4 .
Table 1 : Co - Primary Efficacy Results at Week 12 Study 1 Study 2 Ivermectin Vehicle Ivermectin Vehicle Cream ( N = 451 ) Cream ( N = 232 ) Cream ( N = 459 ) Cream ( N = 229 ) Investigator Global Assessment : Number ( % ) of Subjects Clear or Almost Clear 173 ( 38 . 4 % ) 27 ( 11 . 6 % ) 184 ( 40 . 1 % ) 43 ( 18 . 8 % ) Inflammatory Lesion Counts : Mean Absolute ( % ) Change from Baseline 20 . 5 ( 64 . 9 % ) 12 . 0 ( 41 . 6 % ) 22 . 2 ( 65 . 7 % ) 13 . 4 ( 43 . 4 % ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ivermectin cream , 1 % is a white to pale yellow cream , supplied in a laminated tube with a child resistant cap in the following size : 45 gram - NDC 0591 - 4052 - 89 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Patients using ivermectin cream should receive the following instruction : Keep out of reach of children .
Manufactured By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . B 11 / 2022 INSTRUCTION FOR USE Ivermectin ( eye " ver mek ' tin ) Cream , 1 % Important : Ivermectin cream is for use on the skin only ( topical use ) .
Do not use ivermectin cream in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read and follow the steps below so that you use ivermectin cream correctly .
1 .
Open the tube of ivermectin cream by gently pressing down on the child resistant cap and twist in the direction of the arrow ( counterclockwise ) as shown below .
See Figures A and B . To avoid spilling , do not squeeze the tube while opening or closing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Figure B 2 .
To apply ivermectin cream to your face , squeeze a pea - sized amount of ivermectin cream from the tube onto your fingertip .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C 3 .
Apply ivermectin cream to the affected areas of your face 1 time a day .
Use a pea - sized amount of ivermectin cream for each area of your face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) that is affected .
Spread the cream smoothly and evenly in a thin layer .
Avoid contact with your eyes and lips .
4 .
To close ivermectin cream , gently press down on the child resistant cap and twist to the right ( clockwise ) .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D How should I store ivermectin cream ?
• Store ivermectin cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep ivermectin cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . B 11 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT INFORMATION Ivermectin ( eye " ver mek ' tin ) Cream , 1 % Important : Ivermectin cream is for use on the skin only ( topical use ) .
Do not use ivermectin cream in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is ivermectin cream ?
Ivermectin cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat pimples and bumps ( inflammatory lesions ) caused by a condition called rosacea .
It is not known if ivermectin cream is safe and effective in children .
Before using ivermectin cream , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ivermectin cream will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ivermectin passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you use ivermectin cream .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use ivermectin cream ?
See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” that comes with ivermectin cream for information on how to apply ivermectin cream .
• Use ivermectin cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Apply ivermectin cream to the affected areas of your face 1 time a day .
• Avoid contact with your eyes and lips • If ivermectin cream is accidentally swallowed ( ingested ) , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of ivermectin cream ?
The most common side effects of ivermectin cream include skin burning sensation and skin irritation .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ivermectin cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Teva at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
How should I store ivermectin cream ?
• Store ivermectin cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep ivermectin cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ivermectin cream .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ivermectin cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ivermectin cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ivermectin cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ivermectin cream ?
Active ingredient : ivermectin Inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol , citric acid anhydrous , carbomer homopolymer type c , di - isopropyl adipate , edetate disodium , hexylene glycol , methylparaben , oleyl alcohol , polysorbate 80 , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sodium hydroxide , and sorbitan tristearate Manufactured By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . , Parsippany , NJ 07054 For more information , call Teva at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rev . A 11 / 2022 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 4052 - 89 Ivermectin Cream 1 % 45 GRAMS FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY Not for Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
