DESCRIPTION Albuterol tablets , USP contain albuterol sulfate , USP , the racemic form of albuterol and a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name α1 - [ ( tert - Butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 . 71 , and the molecular formula is ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
Albuterol sulfate , USP is a white or practically white powder , freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
Each albuterol tablet , USP for oral administration contains 2 mg or 4 mg of albuterol as 2 . 4 mg or 4 . 8 mg of albuterol sulfate , USP respectively .
Each tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized ( corn ) starch and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The primary action of beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , including albuterol , is to stimulate adenyl cyclase , the enzyme which catalyzes the formation of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) from adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) in beta - adrenergic cells .
The cyclic AMP thus formed mediates the cellular responses .
Increased cyclic AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established .
In controlled clinical trials , albuterol has been shown to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or ECG changes .
Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients by any route of administration because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines nor for catechol - O - methyl transferase .
Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Albuterol is rapidly and well absorbed following oral administration .
In studies involving normal volunteers , the mean steady - state peak and trough plasm levels of albuterol were 6 . 7 and 3 . 8 ng / mL , respectively , following dosing with a 2 mg albuterol tablet every 6 hours and 14 . 8 and 8 . 6 ng / mL , respectively following dosing with a 4 mg albuterol tablet every 6 hours .
Maximum albuterol plasma levels are usually obtained between 2 and 3 hours after dosing , and the elimination half - life is 5 to 6 hours .
These data indicate that albuterol administered orally is dose proportional and exhibits dose independent pharmacokinetics .
Albuterol extended - release tablets have been formulated to provide a duration of action of up to 12 hours .
In studies conducted in normal volunteers , the mean steady - state peak and trough plasma levels of albuterol were 6 . 5 and 3 . 0 ng / mL , respectively , following dosing with a 4 mg albuterol extended - release tablet every 12 hours .
In addition , it has been shown that administration of a 4 mg albuterol extended - release tablets every 12 hours , and a 2 mg albuterol tablet every 6 hours for 5 days gave comparable peak albuterol levels and similar extent of absorption at steady state .
In other studies , the analysis of urine samples of patients given tritiated albuterol ( 4 mg to 10 mg ) orally showed that 65 % to 90 % of the dose was excreted over 3 days , with the majority of the dose being excreted within the first 24 hours .
Sixty percent of this radioactivity was shown to be the metabolite .
Feces collected over this period contained 4 % of the administered dose .
Clinical Trials In controlled clinical trials in patients with asthma , the onset of improvement in pulmonary function , as measured by maximum midexpiratory flow rate ( MMEF ) , was noted within 30 minutes after a dose of albuterol tablets , with peak improvement occurring between 2 and 3 hours .
In controlled clinical trials in which measurements were conducted for 6 hours , significant clinical improvement in pulmonary function ( defined as maintaining a 15 % or more increase in FEV1 and a 20 % or more increase in MMEF over baseline values ) was observed in 60 % of patients at 4 hours and in 40 % at 6 hours .
In other single - dose , controlled clinical trials , clinically significant improvement was observed in at least 40 % of the patients at 8 hours with the 4 mg albuterol tablet .
No decrease in the effectiveness of albuterol tablets has been reported in patients who received long - term treatment with the drug in uncontrolled studies for periods up to 6 months .
In another controlled clinical study in asthmatic patients , it has been demonstrated that the initiation of therapy with either the 4 mg albuterol extended - release tablet dosed every 12 hours , or the 2 mg albuterol tablet dosed every 6 hours , achieve therapeutically comparable effects .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol tablets , USP are indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in adults and children 6 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol , or any of their components .
WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm Albuterol tablets can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , albuterol tablets should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours , or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of albuterol tablets than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Use of Anti - Inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids .
Cardiovascular Effects Albuterol tablets , like all other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of albuterol tablets at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , albuterol tablets , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis and oropharyngeal edema .
Rarely , erythema multiforme and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been associated with the administration of oral albuterol sulfate in children .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information for Patients Patients being treated with albuterol tablets should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
The action of albuterol tablets may last up to 6 to 8 hours or longer .
Albuterol tablets should not be taken more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of albuterol tablets without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with albuterol tablets becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms get worse , and / or you need to take the product more frequently than usual , you should seek medical attention immediately .
While you are taking albuterol tablets , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , and tremor or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about the use of albuterol tablets .
Effective and safe use of albuterol tablets includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of albuterol tablets and other oral sympathomimetic agents is not recommended since such combined use may lead to deleterious cardiovascular effects .
This recommendation does not preclude the judicious use of an aerosol bronchodilator of the adrenergic stimulant type in patients receiving albuterol tablets .
Such concomitant use , however , should be individualized and not given on a routine basis .
If regular co - administration is required , then alternative therapy should be considered .
Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as albuterol tablets , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non - potassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the co - administration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 mg / kg ( corresponding to less than the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the co - administration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg , ( approximately 65 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis , or , approximately 50 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in the Golden hamster , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg , ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults and children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test with or without metabolic activation using tester strains S . typhimurium TA1537 , TA1538 , and TA98 or E . Coli WP2 , WP2uvrA , and WP67 .
No forward mutation was seen in yeast strain S . cerevisiae S9 nor any mitotic gene conversion in yeast strain S . cerevisiae JD1 with or without metabolic activation .
Fluctuation assays in S . typhimurium TA98 and E . Coli WP2 , both with metabolic activation , were negative .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Albuterol has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice at subcutaneous ( sc ) doses at and above 0 . 25 mg / kg ( corresponding to less than the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) , induced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses .
At an sc dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg ( corresponding to less than the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) albuterol sulfate induced cleft palate formation in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation when administered at an sc dose , 0 . 025 mg / kg ( significantly less than the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) subcutaneously .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol was administered orally at a dose of 50 mg / kg ( approximately 25 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis ) .
Studies in pregnant rats with tritiated albuterol demonstrated that approximately 10 % of the circulating maternal drug is transferred to the fetus .
Disposition in the fetal lungs is comparable to maternal lungs , but fetal liver disposition is 1 % of the maternal liver levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , albuterol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
Because no consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Labor and Delivery Use in Labor Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of albuterol tablets for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis Albuterol has not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit / risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including maternal pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in some animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of albuterol tablets and albuterol extended - release tablets have been established in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older .
Use of albuterol extended - release tablets in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of albuterol extended - release tablets in adults : the likelihood that the disease course , pathophysiology , and the drug ’ s effect in pediatric and adult patients are substantially similar , ; the established safety and effectiveness of albuterol tablets in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ; and one clinical trial that provides evidence of the safety of albuterol extended - release tablets in pediatric patients aged 6 to 12 years .
The recommended dose of albuterol extended - release tablets in the pediatric population is based upon the recommended pediatric dosing of albuterol tablets and pharmacokinetic studies in adults showing albuterol extended - release tablets to have similar peak albuterol levels ( i . e . Cmax ) and exposure ( i . e . AUC ) as albuterol tablets administered every 6 hours at one - half of the albuterol extended - release tablets dose .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years for albuterol extended - release tablets and albuterol tablets have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions to albuterol are similar in nature to those of other sympathomimetic agents .
Albuterol Tablets Adverse Experience Incidence ( % of patients ) in Adults and Children 6 Years of Age and Older Adverse Event Percent Incidence Central nervous system Nervousness 20 Tremor 20 Headache 7 Dizziness 2 Weakness 2 Sleeplessness 2 Irritability < 1 Drowsiness < 1 Restlessness < 1 Cardiovascular Palpitations 5 Tachycardia 5 Flushing < 1 Chest discomfort < 1 Musculoskeletal Muscle cramps 3 Gastrointestinal Nausea 2 Genitourinary Difficulty in micturition < 1 Albuterol Extended - release Tablets Incidence of Adverse Reactions ( % of Patients ) in a 1 - week Clinical Trials * Adverse Event Albuterol Extended - release Tablets ( 4 mg every 12 hours ) Albuterol Tablets ( 2 mg every 6 hours ) Nausea 4 4 Nervousness 2 6 Vomiting 2 4 Somnolence 2 2 * This table includes adverse reactions considered to be possibly or probably treatment related in 1 - week clinical trial comparing a 4 mg albuterol extended - release tablet administered every 12 hours to a 2 mg albuterol tablet administered every 6 hours .
Although not reported for albuterol extended - release tablets in the above study , there have been reports of tremor in other trials .
When all clinical experience is considered , the incidence of tremor is approximately the same as that seen with albuterol tablets .
A placebo - controlled trial of 4 weeks duration in 157 mild - to - moderate asthmatic children aged 6 to 12 years , demonstrated the safety of escalating doses of albuterol extended - release tablets .
In this study , the starting dose of albuterol extended - release tablets was 4 mg twice daily .
Patients were advanced to a maximum of 12 mg albuterol extended - release tablets twice daily by the investigator , based on patient tolerance and response .
Only one of the 79 children treated with albuterol extended - release tablets was advanced to the maximum daily dose of 12 mg twice daily .
The following treatment - related adverse events occurred in more than 5 % of treated patients and were greater in albuterol extended - release tablets patients when compared to placebo : Incidence of Adverse Events ( % of Patients ) in a 4 - Week Placebo - Controlled Trial in 157 Children 6 to 12 Years of Age Adverse Event Albuterol Extended - release Tablets % Placebo % Headache 22 9 Nervousness 13 6 Insomnia 11 5 Tremor 10 1 Palpitation 8 1 Tachycardia 8 1 Other adverse events were noted in 5 % or fewer patients , or had equal or greater rates of occurrence in placebo patients than in albuterol extended - release tablets patients .
Cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , oropharyngeal edema and arrhytmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , and extrasystoles ) have been reported after the use of albuterol tablets .
In addition to those adverse reactions reported above , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as angina , central nervous system stimulation , drying or irritation of the oropharynx , hypertension , unusual taste , and vertigo .
The reactions are generally transient in nature , and it is usually not necessary to discontinue treatment with albuterol tablets .
In selected cases , however , dosage may be reduced temporarily ; after the reaction has subsided , dosage should be increased in small increments to the optimal dosage .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , angina , hypertension tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , and insomnia .
In addition , seizures , hypotension , arrhythmias , fatigue , malaise and hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of albuterol tablets .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of albuterol tablets together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of albuterol tablets .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 250 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis , and approximately 200 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous ( sc ) median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 110 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis , and approximately 90 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
In small young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 510 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for adults on an mg / m2 basis , and approximately 400 times the maximum recommended daily oral dose for children on an mg / m2 basis ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The following dosages of albuterol tablets , USP are expressed in terms of albuterol base .
Usual Dosage Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 Years of Age : For pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age , the usual dosage is 2 mg three or four times a day .
Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years of Age : For adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age , the usual starting dosage is 2 or 4 mg three or four times a day .
Dosage Adjustment Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 Years of Age Who Fail to Respond to the Initial Starting Dosage of 2 mg Four Times a Day : For pediatric patients from 6 to 12 years of age who fail to respond to the initial starting dosage of 2 mg four times a day , the dosage may be cautiously increased stepwise , but not to exceed 24 mg / day ( given in divided doses ) .
Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years of Age : For adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age , a dosage above 4 mg four times a day should be used only when the patient fails to respond to lower dose .
The dosage should be cautiously increased stepwise up to a maximum of 8 mg four times a day as tolerated if a favorable response does not occur with the 4 mg initial dosage .
Elderly Patients and Those Sensitive to Beta - adrenergic Stimulators : An initial dosage of 2 mg three or four times a day is recommended for elderly patients and for those with a history of unusual sensitivity to beta - adrenergic stimulators .
If adequate bronchodilation is not obtained , dosage may be increased gradually as tolerated to as much as 8 mg three or four times a day .
The total daily dose should not exceed 24 mg per day in pediatric patients from 6 to 12 years of age and 32 mg in adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED Albuterol tablets , USP contain 2 mg or 4 mg of albuterol as 2 . 4 mg or 4 . 8 mg of albuterol sulfate , USP respectively .
Albuterol Tablets USP , 2 mg are supplied as white , round shaped , uncoated tablets , free from physical defects , debossed with “ AA ” and “ 91 ” on either side of score line and plain on other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 69238 - 1344 - 1 Bottles of 500 : NDC 69238 - 1344 - 5 Albuterol Tablets USP , 4 mg are supplied as white , round shaped , uncoated tablets , free from physical defects , debossed with “ AA ” and “ 90 ” on either side of score line and plain on other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 69238 - 1345 - 1 Bottles of 500 : NDC 69238 - 1345 - 5 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Pvt . Ltd .
Oral Solid Dosage Unit Ahmedabad 382213 , INDIA Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 04 - 2018 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 69238 - 1344 - 1 Albuterol Tablets USP , 2 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69238 - 1345 - 1 Albuterol Tablets USP , 4 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
