Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole , USP 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ’ s foot , jock itch , and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling , and discomfort Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age , unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition lasts longer , contact a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • Store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
• Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , sorbitan monostearate Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Lotrimin ® AF Athlete ' s Foot Cream * Athlete ' s Foot Cream Clotrimazole Cream , USP 1 % ANTIFUNGAL cures most athlete ' s foot relieves itching and burning NET WT .
OZ ( g ) FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer HealthCare LLC . , distributor of Lotrimin ® AF Athlete ' s Foot Cream .
DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID , 30 HUNTER LANE , CAMP HILL , PA 17011 www . riteaid . com Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
