Directions : • Wash skin to remove dirt , oils , and any cosmetics or lotions , then dry thoroughly .
• Open ZAPNE Packet Part 1 - Towelette infused with natrual 0 . 5 % salicylic acid and thoroughly wipe face and neck .
Allow to dry and do not rinse .
• Open Zapne Packet part 2 - A which contains a green / gray powder of natrual fresh water sponge ( spongilla lacustris ) , natural Aloe Vera , natrual sericin , brown seaweed , organic green tea , organic ginger root , willow bark , and chamomile .
Pour its contens into a small mixing bowl .
• Carefully open ZAPNE Packet Part 2 - B consisting of hydrogen peroxide 3 % and water .
Pour its content into a mixing bowl containing the powder .
• Mix thoroughly using your finger ( 1 minute ) .
• Apply the ZAPNE mixture as a max over your entire face .
Rub vigorously with your fingers , according to your skin sensitivity .
Massage in small circular motions .
Avoid applying the mask too close to the eyes .
• Allow to drive for about 15 minutes .
A tingling sensation may be felt as the mask begins drying and the skin may experience erythema ( slight redness ) , • Next rinse skin thoroughly by splashing cold water or showering to remove the mask .
Do not wipe or scrub face .
• Any skin erythema ( slight redness ) and tingling sensations gradually fade over 8 - 24 hours .
• For best results avoid heavy moisturizers for at least 12 hours .
• After skin starts sloughing ( shedding ) within 3 - 4 days , scrub your face using an exfoliating scrub , cloth , or loofa to remove any dead skin .
• Avoid direct sunlight for two weeks after using the mask .
Use a sunscreen if it is necessary to be in direct sunlight .
• Apply again one week after the first application and contine to apply weekly until the desired results are acheived .
WARNING : Avoid direct contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water or other eye wash fuilds .
If the problem persists , see a doctor immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings : For external use only .
Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one treatment should be used unless directed by a doctor .
Avoid direct contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Keepy out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other Ingredients Natural Fresh Water Sponge ( spongilla lacustris ) , organic Aloe Vera , Natural Sericin , Brown Seaweed , Organic Green Tea , Organic Ginger Root , Willow Bark ( Salix alba ) , Organic Chamomile , Propanediol , Decyl Glucoside , Citric Acid , Potassium Sorbate , Hydrogen Peroxide and Water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indications : For the treatment of Acne [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zapne Acne Treatment System • Use Only Once a Week • Easy 15 - minute Mask Treatment • Fast Acting • Feel and See it Working • All NAtrual Ingredients • Four Complete Weekly Treatments [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredients : salicylic acid 0 . 5 % from natural willow bark extract [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] active ingredients salicylic acid 0 . 5 % from natural willow bark extract Indications For the treatment of Acne Other Ingredients Natural Fresh Water Sponge ( spongilla lacustris ) , organic Aloe Vera , Natural Sericin , Brown Seaweed , Organic Green Tea , Organic Ginger Root , Willow Bark ( Salix alba ) , Organic Chamomile , Propanediol , Decyl Glucoside , Citric Acid , Potassium Sorbate , Hydrogen Peroxide and Water Store above freezing and below 100 F Warnings : For external use only .
Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one treatment should be used unless directed by a doctor .
avoid direct contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Does Not Contain : Benzoyl Peroxide , Parabens , Phthalates , Sodium Lauryl / Laureth Sulfare , Sodium Methyl Sulface , Artificial Colors or Fragrances [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
