BOXED WARNING SECTION • WARNING : BLEEDING RISK Warfarin sodium can cause major or fatal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Drugs , dietary changes , and other factors affect INR levels achieved with warfarin sodium therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION • Warfarin Sodium Tablets USP are indicated for : • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension , pulmonary embolism ( PE ) .
• Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ) and / or cardiac valve replacement .
• Reduction in the risk of death , recurrent myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction . Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium tablets USP have no direct effect on an established thrombus , nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage .
Once a thrombus has occurred , however , the goals of anticoagulant treatment are to prevent further extension of the formed clot and to prevent secondary thromboembolic complications that may result in serious and possibly fatal sequelae .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION • 2 . 1 Individualized DosingThe dosage and administration of warfarin sodium tablets must be individualized for each patient according to the patient ’ s INR response to the drug .
Adjust the dose based on the patient ’ s INR and the condition being treated .
Consult the latest evidence - based clinical practice guidelines from the American College of Chest Physicians ( ACCP ) to assist in the determination of the duration and intensity of anticoagulation with warfarin sodium tablets [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Target INR Ranges and Durations for Individual IndicationsAn INR of greater than 4 appears to provide no additional therapeutic benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding .
Venous Thromboembolism ( including deep venous thrombosis [ DVT ] and PE ) Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain a target INR of 2 . 5 ( INR range , 2 to 3 ) for all treatment durations .
The duration of treatment is based on the indication as follows : • For patients with a DVT or PE secondary to a transient ( reversible ) risk factor , treatment with warfarin for 3 months is recommended .
• For patients with an unprovoked DVT or PE , treatment with warfarin is recommended for at least 3 months .
After 3 months of therapy , evaluate the risk - benefit ratio of long - term treatment for the individual patient .
• For patients with two episodes of unprovoked DVT or PE , long - term treatment with warfarin is recommended .
For a patient receiving long - term anticoagulant treatment , periodically reassess the risk - benefit ratio of continuing such treatment in the individual patient . Atrial Fibrillation In patients with non - valvular AF , anticoagulate with warfarin to target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 to 3 ) .
• In patients with non - valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at high risk of stroke ( i . e . , having any of the following features : prior ischemic stroke , transient ischemic attack , or systemic embolism , or 2 of the following risk factors : age greater than 75 years , moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and / or heart failure , history of hypertension , or diabetes mellitus ) , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• In patients with non - valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at an intermediate risk of ischemic stroke ( i . e . , having 1 of the following risk factors : age greater than 75 years , moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and / or heart failure , history of hypertension , or diabetes mellitus ) , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• For patients with AF and mitral stenosis , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• For patients with AF and prosthetic heart valves , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended ; the target INR may be increased and aspirin added depending on valve type and position , and on patient factors . Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart Valves • For patients with a bileaflet mechanical valve or a Medtronic Hall ( Minneapolis , MN ) tilting disk valve in the aortic position who are in sinus rhythm and without left atrial enlargement , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 to 3 ) is recommended .
• For patients with tilting disk valves and bileaflet mechanical valves in the mitral position , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 ( range , 2 . 5 to 3 . 5 ) is recommended .
• For patients with caged ball or caged disk valves , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 ( range , 2 . 5 to 3 . 5 ) is recommended .
• For patients with a bioprosthetic valve in the mitral position , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 to 3 ) for the first 3 months after valve insertion is recommended .
If additional risk factors for thromboembolism are present ( AF , previous thromboembolism , left ventricular dysfunction ) , a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range 2 to 3 ) is recommended . Post - Myocardial Infarction • For high - risk patients with MI ( e . g . , those with a large anterior MI , those with significant heart failure , those with intracardiac thrombus visible on transthoracic echocardiography , those with AF , and those with a history of a thromboembolic event ) , therapy with combined moderate - intensity ( INR , 2 to 3 ) warfarin plus low - dose aspirin ( ≤ 100 mg / day ) for at least 3 months after the MI is recommended . Recurrent Systemic Embolism and Other Indications Oral anticoagulation therapy with warfarin has not been fully evaluated by clinical trials in patients with valvular disease associated with AF , patients with mitral stenosis , and patients with recurrent systemic embolism of unknown etiology .
However , a moderate dose regimen ( INR 2 to 3 ) may be used for these patients .
2 . 3 Initial and Maintenance DosingThe appropriate initial dosing of warfarin sodium tablets varies widely for different patients .
Not all factors responsible for warfarin dose variability are known , and the initial dose is influenced by : • Clinical factors including age , race , body weight , sex , concomitant medications , and comorbidities • Genetic factors ( CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Select the initial dose based on the expected maintenance dose , taking into account the above factors .
Modify this dose based on consideration of patient - specific clinical factors .
Consider lower initial and maintenance doses for elderly and / or debilitated patients and in Asian patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Routine use of loading doses is not recommended as this practice may increase hemorrhagic and other complications and does not offer more rapid protection against clot formation .
Individualize the duration of therapy for each patient .
In general , anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Dosage Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient ’ s CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known , the initial dose of warfarin sodium tablets is usually 2 to 5 mg once daily .
Determine each patient ’ s dosing needs by close monitoring of the INR response and consideration of the indication being treated .
Typical maintenance doses are 2 to 10 mg once daily .
Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium tablets doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
If the patient ’ s CYP2C9 and / or VKORC1 genotype are known , consider these ranges in choosing the initial dose .
Patients with CYP2C9 * 1 / * 3 , * 2 / * 2 , * 2 / * 3 , and * 3 / * 3 may require more prolonged time ( > 2 to 4 weeks ) to achieve maximum INR effect for a given dosage regimen than patients without these CYP variants .
Table 1 : Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Tablets Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes † VKORC1 CYP2C9 * 1 / * 1 * 1 / * 2 * 1 / * 3 * 2 / * 2 * 2 / * 3 * 3 / * 3 GG 5 to 7 mg 5 to 7 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg AG 5 to 7 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg AA 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg 0 . 5 to 2 mg † Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies .
VKORC1 − 1639 G > A ( rs9923231 ) variant is used in this table .
Other co - inherited VKORC1 variants may also be important determinants of warfarin dose .
2 . 4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal AnticoagulationWarfarin sodium tablets are a narrow therapeutic range ( index ) drug , and their action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K . Therefore , anticoagulation must be carefully monitored during warfarin sodiumtablets therapy .
Determine the INR daily after the administration of the initial dose until INR results stabilize in the therapeutic range .
After stabilization , maintain dosing within the therapeutic range by performing periodic INRs .
The frequency of performing INR should be based on the clinical situation but generally acceptable intervals for INR determinations are 1 to 4 weeks .
Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodiumtablets , as well as whenever other medications are initiated , discontinued , or taken irregularly .
Heparin , a common concomitant drug , increases the INR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 8 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Determinations of whole blood clotting and bleeding times are not effective measures for monitoring of warfarin sodium tablets therapy .
2 . 5 Missed DoseThe anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium tablets persists beyond 24 hours .
If a patient misses a dose of warfarin sodium tablets at the intended time of day , the patient should take the dose as soon as possible on the same day .
The patient should not double the dose the next day to make up for a missed dose .
2 . 7 Treatment During Dentistry and SurgerySome dental or surgical procedures may necessitate the interruption or change in the dose of warfarin sodium tablets therapy .
Consider the benefits and risks when discontinuing warfarin sodium tablets even for a short period of time .
Determine the INR immediately prior to any dental or surgical procedure .
In patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to , during , or immediately following these procedures , adjusting the dosage of warfarin sodium tablets to maintain the INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow for continued anticoagulation .
2 . 8 Conversion From Other AnticoagulantsHeparin Since the full anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium tablets is not achieved for several days , heparin is preferred for initial rapid anticoagulation .
During initial therapy with warfarin sodium tablets , the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance .
Conversion to warfarin sodium tablets may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy or may be delayed 3 to 6 days .
To ensure therapeutic anticoagulation , continue full dose heparin therapy and overlap warfarin sodium tablets therapy with heparin for 4 to 5 days and until warfarin sodium tablets has produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by INR , at which point heparin may be discontinued .
As heparin may affect the INR , patients receiving both heparin and warfarin sodium tablets should have INR monitoring at least : • 5 hours after the last intravenous bolus dose of heparin , or • 4 hours after cessation of a continuous intravenous infusion of heparin , or • 24 hours after the last subcutaneous heparin injection . Warfarin sodium tablets may increase the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) test , even in the absence of heparin .
A severe elevation ( > 50 seconds ) in aPTT with an INR in the desired range has been identified as an indication of increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage .
Other Anticoagulants Consult the labeling of other anticoagulants for instructions on conversion to warfarin sodium tablets .
DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS SECTION Warfarin sodiumtablets are supplied as scored tablets in the following strengths : 1 mg , 2 mg , 2 ½ mg , 3 mg , 4 mg , 5 mg , 6 mg , 7 ½ mg , and 10 mg .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION • PregnancyWarfarin sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves , who are at high risk of thromboembolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity ) , fatal fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias • Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye , or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Bleeding tendencies associated with : − Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal , genitourinary , or respiratory tract − Central nervous system hemorrhage − Cerebral aneurysms , dissecting aorta − Pericarditis and pericardial effusions − Bacterial endocarditis • Threatened abortion , eclampsia , and preeclampsia • Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non - compliance • Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding • Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia • Malignant hypertension WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SECTION • The 7 ½ mg tablets contain FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) , which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
5 . 1 HemorrhageWarfarin sodium can cause major or fatal bleeding .
Bleeding is more likely to occur within the first month .
Risk factors for bleeding include high intensity of anticoagulation ( INR > 4 ) , age greater than or equal to 65 , history of highly variable INRs , history of gastrointestinal bleeding , hypertension , cerebrovascular disease , anemia , malignancy , trauma , renal impairment , certain genetic factors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] , certain concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , and long duration of warfarin therapy .
Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients .
Those at high risk of bleeding may benefit from more frequent INR monitoring , careful dose adjustment to desired INR , and a shortest duration of therapy appropriate for the clinical condition .
However , maintenance of INR in the therapeutic range does not eliminate the risk of bleeding .
Drugs , dietary changes , and other factors affect INR levels achieved with warfarin sodium therapy .
Perform more frequent INR monitoring when starting or stopping other drugs , including botanicals , or when changing dosages of other drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Tissue NecrosisNecrosis and / or gangrene of skin and other tissues is an uncommon but serious risk ( < 0 . 1 % ) .
Necrosis may be associated with local thrombosis and usually appears within a few days of the start of warfarin sodium therapy .
In severe cases of necrosis , treatment through debridement or amputation of the affected tissue , limb , breast , or penis has been reported .
Careful clinical evaluation is required to determine whether necrosis is caused by an underlying disease .
Although various treatments have been attempted , no treatment for necrosis has been considered uniformly effective .
Discontinue warfarin sodium therapy if necrosis occurs .
Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary .
5 . 3 Systemic Atheroemboli and Cholesterol MicroemboliAnticoagulation therapy with warfarin sodium may enhance the release of atheromatous plaque emboli .
Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli can present with a variety of signs and symptoms depending on the site of embolization .
The most commonly involved visceral organs are the kidneys followed by the pancreas , spleen , and liver .
Some cases have progressed to necrosis or death .
A distinct syndrome resulting from microemboli to the feet is known as “ purple toes syndrome . ”
Discontinue warfarin sodium therapy if such phenomena are observed .
Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary .
5 . 4 Heparin - Induced ThrombocytopeniaDo not use warfarin sodium as initial therapy in patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome ( HITTS ) .
Cases of limb ischemia , necrosis , and gangrene have occurred in patients with HIT and HITTS when heparin treatment was discontinued and warfarin therapy was started or continued .
In some patients , sequelae have included amputation of the involved area and / or death .
Treatment with warfarin sodium may be considered after the platelet count has normalized .
5 . 5 Use in Pregnant Women with Mechanical Heart ValvesWarfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
While warfarin sodium is contraindicated during pregnancy , the potential benefits of using warfarin sodium may outweigh the risks for pregnant women with mechanical heart valves at high risk of thromboembolism .
In those individual situations , the decision to initiate or continue warfarin sodium should be reviewed with the patient , taking into consideration the specific risks and benefits pertaining to the individual patient ’ s medical situation , as well as the most current medical guidelines .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity ) , fatal fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Females of Reproductive PotentialWarfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy can cause pregnancy loss , birth defects , or fetal death .
Discuss pregnancy planning with females of reproductive potential who are on warfarin sodium therapy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 7 Other Clinical Settings with Increased RisksIn the following clinical settings , the risks of warfarin sodium therapy may be increased : • Moderate to severe hepatic impairment • Infectious diseases or disturbances of intestinal flora ( e . g . , sprue , antibiotic therapy ) • Use of an indwelling catheter • Severe to moderate hypertension • Deficiency in protein C - mediated anticoagulant response : warfarin sodium reduces the synthesis of the naturally occurring anticoagulants , protein C and protein S . Hereditary or acquired deficiencies of protein C or its cofactor , protein S , have been associated with tissue necrosis following warfarin administration .
Concomitant anticoagulation therapy with heparin for 5 to 7 days during initiation of therapy with warfarin sodium may minimize the incidence of tissue necrosis in these patients .
• Eye surgery : In cataract surgery , warfarin sodium use was associated with a significant increase in minor complications of sharp needle and local anesthesia block but not associated with potentially sight - threatening operative hemorrhagic complications .
As warfarin sodium cessation or reduction may lead to serious thromboembolic complications , the decision to discontinue warfarin sodium before a relatively less invasive and complex eye surgery , such as lens surgery , should be based upon the risks of anticoagulant therapy weighed against the benefits .
• Polycythemia vera • Vasculitis • Diabetes mellitus 5 . 8 Endogenous Factors Affecting INRThe following factors may be responsible for increased INR response : diarrhea , hepatic disorders , poor nutritional state , steatorrhea , or vitamin K deficiency .
The following factors may be responsible for decreased INR response : increased vitamin K intake or hereditary warfarin resistance .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION • The following serious adverse reactions to warfarin sodium are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hemorrhage [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] • Necrosis of skin and other tissues [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Other adverse reactions to warfarin sodium include : • Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity / allergic reactions ( including urticaria and anaphylactic reactions ) • Vascular disorders : vasculitis • Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatitis , elevated liver enzymes .
Cholestatic hepatitis has been associated with concomitant administration of warfarin sodium and ticlopidine .
• Gastrointestinal disorders : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , taste perversion , abdominal pain , flatulence , bloating • Skin disorders : rash , dermatitis ( including bullous eruptions ) , pruritus , alopecia • Respiratory disorders : tracheal or tracheobronchial calcification • General disorders : chills DRUG INTERACTIONS SECTION • Drugs may interact with warfarin sodium through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms .
Pharmacodynamic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are synergism ( impaired hemostasis , reduced clotting factor synthesis ) , competitive antagonism ( vitamin K ) , and alteration of the physiologic control loop for vitamin K metabolism ( hereditary resistance ) .
Pharmacokinetic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are mainly enzyme induction , enzyme inhibition , and reduced plasma protein binding .
It is important to note that some drugs may interact by more than one mechanism .
More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs , including botanicals , or when changing dosages of other drugs , including drugs intended for short - term use ( e . g . , antibiotics , antifungals , corticosteroids ) [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with warfarin sodium or adverse reactions pertaining to bleeding .
7 . 1 CYP450 InteractionsCYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9 , 2C19 , 2C8 , 2C18 , 1A2 , and 3A4 .
The more potent warfarin S - enantiomer is metabolized by CYP2C9 while the R - enantiomer is metabolized by CYP1A2 and 3A4 .
• Inhibitors of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 have the potential to increase the effect ( increase INR ) of warfarin by increasing the exposure of warfarin .
• Inducers of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 have the potential to decrease the effect ( decrease INR ) of warfarin by decreasing the exposure of warfarin . Examples of inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and 3A4 are below in Table 2 ; however , this list should not be considered all - inclusive .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about CYP450 interaction potential .
The CYP450 inhibition and induction potential should be considered when starting , stopping , or changing dose of concomitant mediations .
Closely monitor INR if a concomitant drug is a CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 inhibitor or inducer .
Table 2 : Examples of CYP450 Interactions with Warfarin Enzyme Inhibitors Inducers CYP2C9 amiodarone , capecitabine , cotrimoxazole , etravirine , fluconazole , fluvastatin , fluvoxamine , metronidazole miconazole , oxandrolone , sulfinpyrazone , tigecycline , voriconazole , zafirlukast aprepitant , bosentan , carbamazepine , phenobarbital , rifampin CYP1A2 acyclovir , allopurinol , caffeine , cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , disulfiram , enoxacin , famotidine , fluvoxamine , methoxsalen , mexiletine , norfloxacin , oral contraceptives , phenylpropanolamine , propafenone , propranolol , terbinafine , thiabendazole , ticlopidine , verapamil , zileuton montelukast , moricizine , omeprazole , phenobarbital , phenytoin , cigarette smoking CYP3A4 alprazolam , amiodarone , amlodipine , amprenavir , aprepitant , atorvastatin , atazanavir , bicalutamide , cilostazol , cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , clarithromycin , conivaptan , cyclosporine , darunavir / ritonavir , diltiazem , erythromycin , fluconazole , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , fosamprenavir , imatinib , indinavir , isoniazid , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , nefazodone , nelfinavir , nilotinib , oral contraceptives , posaconazole , ranitidine , ranolazine , ritonavir , saquinavir , telithromycin , tipranavir , voriconazole , zileuton armodafinil , amprenavir , aprepitant , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , etravirine , modafinil , nafcillin , phenytoin , pioglitazone , prednisone , rifampin , rufinamide 7 . 2 Drugs that Increase Bleeding RiskExamples of drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding are presented in Table 3 .
Because bleeding risk is increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with warfarin , closely monitor patients receiving any such drug with warfarin .
Table 3 : Drugs that Can Increase the Risk of Bleeding Drug Class Specific Drugs Anticoagulants argatroban , dabigatran , bivalirudin , desirudin , heparin , lepirudin Antiplatelet Agents aspirin , cilostazol , clopidogrel , dipyridamole , prasugrel , ticlopidine Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents celecoxib , diclofenac , diflunisal , fenoprofen , ibuprofen , indomethacin , ketoprofen , ketorolac , mefenamic acid , naproxen , oxaprozin , piroxicam , sulindac Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors citalopram , desvenlafaxine , duloxetine , escitalopram , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , milnacipran , paroxetine , sertraline , venlafaxine , vilazodone 7 . 3 Antibiotics and AntifungalsThere have been reports of changes in INR in patients taking warfarin and antibiotics or antifungals , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of these agents on plasma concentrations of warfarin .
Closely monitor INR when starting or stopping any antibiotic or antifungal in patients taking warfarin .
7 . 4 Botanical ( Herbal ) Products and FoodsExercise caution when botanical ( herbal ) products are taken concomitantly with warfarin sodium .
Few adequate , well - controlled studies evaluating the potential for metabolic and / or pharmacologic interactions between botanicals and warfarin sodium exist .
Due to a lack of manufacturing standardization with botanical medicinal preparations , the amount of active ingredients may vary .
This could further confound the ability to assess potential interactions and effects on anticoagulation .
Some botanicals may cause bleeding events when taken alone ( e . g . , garlic and Ginkgo biloba ) and may have anticoagulant , antiplatelet , and / or fibrinolytic properties .
These effects would be expected to be additive to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin sodium .
Conversely , some botanicals may decrease the effects of warfarin sodium ( e . g . , co - enzyme Q10 , St . John ’ s wort , ginseng ) .
Some botanicals and foods can interact with warfarin sodium through CYP450 interactions ( e . g . , echinacea , grapefruit juice , ginkgo , goldenseal , St . John ’ s wort ) .
Monitor the patient ’ s response with additional INR determinations when initiating or discontinuing any botanicals .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS SECTION • 8 . 1 PregnancyPregnancy Category D for women with mechanical heart valves [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] and Pregnancy Category X for other pregnant populations [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves , who are at high risk of thromboembolism , and for whom the benefits of warfarin sodium may outweigh the risks .
Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy ) , fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
The reproductive and developmental effects of warfarin sodium have not been evaluated in animals .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In humans , warfarin crosses the placenta , and concentrations in fetal plasma approach the maternal values .
Exposure to warfarin during the first trimester of pregnancy caused a pattern of congenital malformations in about 5 % of exposed offspring .
Warfarin embryopathy is characterized by nasal hypoplasia with or without stippled epiphyses ( chondrodysplasia punctata ) and growth retardation ( including low birth weight ) .
Central nervous system and eye abnormalities have also been reported , including dorsal midline dysplasia characterized by agenesis of the corpus callosum , Dandy - Walker malformation , midline cerebellar atrophy , and ventral midline dysplasia characterized by optic atrophy .
Mental retardation , blindness , schizencephaly , microcephaly , hydrocephalus , and other adverse pregnancy outcomes have been reported following warfarin exposure during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing MothersBased on published data in 15 nursing mothers , warfarin was not detected in human milk .
Among the 15 full - term newborns , 6 nursing infants had documented prothrombin times within the expected range .
Prothrombin times were not obtained for the other 9 nursing infants .
Monitor breastfeeding infants for bruising or bleeding .
Effects in premature infants have not been evaluated .
Caution should be exercised when warfarin sodium is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric UseAdequate and well - controlled studies with warfarin sodium have not been conducted in any pediatric population , and the optimum dosing , safety , and efficacy in pediatric patients is unknown .
Pediatric use of warfarin sodium is based on adult data and recommendations , and available limited pediatric data from observational studies and patient registries .
Pediatric patients administered warfarin sodium should avoid any activity or sport that may result in traumatic injury .
The developing hemostatic system in infants and children results in a changing physiology of thrombosis and response to anticoagulants .
Dosing of warfarin in the pediatric population varies by patient age , with infants generally having the highest , and adolescents having the lowest milligram per kilogram dose requirements to maintain target INRs .
Because of changing warfarin requirements due to age , concomitant medications , diet , and existing medical condition , target INR ranges may be difficult to achieve and maintain in pediatric patients , and more frequent INR determinations are recommended .
Bleeding rates varied by patient population and clinical care center in pediatric observational studies and patient registries .
Infants and children receiving vitamin K - supplemented nutrition , including infant formulas , may be resistant to warfarin therapy , while human milk - fed infants may be sensitive to warfarin therapy .
8 . 5 Geriatric UseOf the total number of patients receiving warfarin sodium in controlled clinical trials for which data were available for analysis , 1885 patients ( 24 . 4 % ) were 65 years and older , while 185 patients ( 2 . 4 % ) were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Patients 60 years or older appear to exhibit greater than expected INR response to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in any unsupervised patient with senility .
Observe caution with administration of warfarin sodium to elderly patients in any situation or with any physical condition where added risk of hemorrhage is present .
Consider lower initiation and maintenance doses of warfarin sodium in elderly patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal ImpairmentRenal clearance is considered to be a minor determinant of anticoagulant response to warfarin .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic ImpairmentHepatic impairment can potentiate the response to warfarin through impaired synthesis of clotting factors and decreased metabolism of warfarin .
Use caution when using warfarin sodium in these patients .
8 . 8 Females of Reproductive PotentialWarfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy can cause spontaneous abortion , birth defects , or fetal death .
Females of reproductive potential who are candidates for warfarin sodium therapy should be counseled regarding the benefits of therapy and potential reproductive risks .
Discuss pregnancy planning with females of reproductive potential who are on warfarin sodium therapy .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking warfarin sodium , she should be apprised of the potential risks to the fetus .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION • 10 . 1 Signs and SymptomsBleeding ( e . g . , appearance of blood in stools or urine , hematuria , excessive menstrual bleeding , melena , petechiae , excessive bruising or persistent oozing from superficial injuries , unexplained fall in hemoglobin ) is a manifestation of excessive anticoagulation .
10 . 2 TreatmentThe treatment of excessive anticoagulation is based on the level of the INR , the presence or absence of bleeding , and clinical circumstances .
Reversal of warfarin sodium anticoagulation may be obtained by discontinuing warfarin sodium therapy and , if necessary , by administration of oral or parenteral vitamin K1 .
The use of vitamin K1 reduces response to subsequent warfarin sodium therapy and patients may return to a pretreatment thrombotic status following the rapid reversal of a prolonged INR .
Resumption of warfarin sodium administration reverses the effect of vitamin K , and a therapeutic INR can again be obtained by careful dosage adjustment .
If rapid re - anticoagulation is indicated , heparin may be preferable for initial therapy .
Prothrombin complex concentrate ( PCC ) , fresh frozen plasma , or activated Factor VII treatment may be considered if the requirement to reverse the effects of warfarin sodium is urgent .
A risk of hepatitis and other viral diseases is associated with the use of blood products ; PCC and activated Factor VII are also associated with an increased risk of thrombosis .
Therefore , these preparations should be used only in exceptional or life - threatening bleeding episodes secondary to warfarin sodium overdosage .
DESCRIPTION SECTION Warfarin sodium tablets USP are an anticoagulant that acts by inhibiting vitamin K - dependent coagulation factors .
Chemically , it is 3 - ( α - acetonylbenzyl ) - 4 - hydroxycoumarin and is a racemic mixture of the R - and S - enantiomers .
Crystalline warfarin sodium is an isopropanol clathrate .
Its structural formula may be represented as follows : Warfarin Structural Formula C19H15NaO4 M . W . 330 . 31 Crystalline warfarin sodium occurs as a white , odorless , crystalline powder that is discolored by light .
It is very soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , and very slightly soluble in chloroform and ether .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 1 mg , 2 mg , 2 ½ mg , 3 mg , 4 mg , 5 mg , 6 mg , 7 ½ mg or 10 mg warfarin sodium , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The 1 mg also contains FD & C red no . 40 .
The 2 mg also contains FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake and FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake .
The 2 ½ mg also contains D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake .
The 3 mg also contains FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake , and D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake .
The 4 mg also contains FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake and FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake .
The 5 mg also contains FD & C yellow no . 6 aluminum lake , FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake and D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake .
The 6 mg also contains D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake .
The 7 ½ mg also contains FD & C yellow no . 5 ( tartrazine ) aluminum lake and FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION • 12 . 1 Mechanism of ActionWarfarin acts by inhibiting the synthesis of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors , which include Factors II , VII , IX , and X , and the anticoagulant proteins C and S . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for the post ribosomal synthesis of the vitamin K - dependent clotting factors .
Vitamin K promotes the biosynthesis of γ - carboxyglutamic acid residues in the proteins that are essential for biological activity .
Warfarin is thought to interfere with clotting factor synthesis by inhibition of the C1 subunit of vitamin K epoxide reductase ( VKORC1 ) enzyme complex , thereby reducing the regeneration of vitamin K1 epoxide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
12 . 2 PharmacodynamicsAn anticoagulation effect generally occurs within 24 hours after warfarin administration .
However , peak anticoagulant effect may be delayed 72 to 96 hours .
The duration of action of a single dose of racemic warfarin is 2 to 5 days .
The effects of warfarin sodium may become more pronounced as effects of daily maintenance doses overlap .
This is consistent with the half - lives of the affected vitamin K - dependent clotting factors and anticoagulation proteins : Factor II - 60 hours , VII - 4 to 6 hours , IX - 24 hours , X - 48 to 72 hours , and proteins C and S are approximately 8 hours and 30 hours , respectively .
12 . 3 PharmacokineticsWarfarin sodium is a racemic mixture of the R - and S - enantiomers of warfarin .
The S - enantiomer exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R - enantiomer in humans , but generally has a more rapid clearance .
Absorption Warfarin is essentially completely absorbed after oral administration , with peak concentration generally attained within the first 4 hours .
Distribution Warfarin distributes into a relatively small apparent volume of distribution of about 0 . 14 L / kg .
A distribution phase lasting 6 to 12 hours is distinguishable after rapid intravenous or oral administration of an aqueous solution .
Approximately 99 % of the drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism The elimination of warfarin is almost entirely by metabolism .
Warfarin is stereoselectively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 ( CYP450 ) microsomal enzymes to inactive hydroxylated metabolites ( predominant route ) and by reductases to reduced metabolites ( warfarin alcohols ) with minimal anticoagulant activity .
Identified metabolites of warfarin include dehydrowarfarin , two diastereoisomer alcohols , and 4 ′ - , 6 - , 7 - , 8 - , and 10 - hydroxywarfarin .
The CYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9 , 2C19 , 2C8 , 2C18 , 1A2 , and 3A4 .
CYP2C9 , a polymorphic enzyme , is likely to be the principal form of human liver CYP450 that modulates the in vivo anticoagulant activity of warfarin .
Patients with one or more variant CYP2C9 alleles have decreased S - warfarin clearance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Excretion The terminal half - life of warfarin after a single dose is approximately 1 week ; however , the effective half - life ranges from 20 to 60 hours , with a mean of about 40 hours .
The clearance of R - warfarin is generally half that of S - warfarin , thus as the volumes of distribution are similar , the half - life of R - warfarin is longer than that of S - warfarin .
The half - life of R - warfarin ranges from 37 to 89 hours , while that of S - warfarin ranges from 21 to 43 hours .
Studies with radiolabeled drug have demonstrated that up to 92 % of the orally administered dose is recovered in urine .
Very little warfarin is excreted unchanged in urine .
Urinary excretion is in the form of metabolites .
Geriatric Patients Patients 60 years or older appear to exhibit greater than expected INR response to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin .
The cause of the increased sensitivity to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin in this age group is unknown but may be due to a combination of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic factors .
Limited information suggests there is no difference in the clearance of S - warfarin ; however , there may be a slight decrease in the clearance of R - warfarin in the elderly as compared to the young .
Therefore , as patient age increases , a lower dose of warfarin is usually required to produce a therapeutic level of anticoagulation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
Asian Patients Asian patients may require lower initiation and maintenance doses of warfarin .
A non - controlled study of 151 Chinese outpatients stabilized on warfarin for various indications reported a mean daily warfarin requirement of 3 . 3 ± 1 . 4 mg to achieve an INR of 2 to 2 . 5 .
Patient age was the most important determinant of warfarin requirement in these patients , with a progressively lower warfarin requirement with increasing age .
12 . 5 PharmacogenomicsCYP2C9 and VKORC1 Polymorphisms The S - enantiomer of warfarin is mainly metabolized to 7 - hydroxywarfarin by CYP2C9 , a polymorphic enzyme .
The variant alleles , CYP2C9 * 2 and CYP2C9 * 3 , result in decreased in vitro CYP2C9 enzymatic 7 - hydroxylation of S - warfarin .
The frequencies of these alleles in Caucasians are approximately 11 % and 7 % for CYP2C9 * 2 and CYP2C9 * 3 , respectively .
Other CYP2C9 alleles associated with reduced enzymatic activity occur at lower frequencies , including * 5 , * 6 , and * 11 alleles in populations of African ancestry and * 5 , * 9 , and * 11 alleles in Caucasians .
Warfarin reduces the regeneration of vitamin K from vitamin K epoxide in the vitamin K cycle through inhibition of VKOR , a multiprotein enzyme complex .
Certain single nucleotide polymorphisms in the VKORC1 gene ( e . g . , – 1639 G > A ) have been associated with variable warfarin dose requirements .
VKORC1 and CYP2C9 gene variants generally explain the largest proportion of known variability in warfarin dose requirements .
CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotype information , when available , can assist in selection of the initial dose of warfarin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY SECTION 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have not been performed with warfarin .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION • 14 . 1 Atrial FibrillationIn five prospective , randomized , controlled clinical trials involving 3711 patients with non - rheumatic AF , warfarin significantly reduced the risk of systemic thromboembolism including stroke ( see Table 4 ) .
The risk reduction ranged from 60 % to 86 % in all except one trial ( CAFA : 45 % ) , which was stopped early due to published positive results from two of these trials .
The incidence of major bleeding in these trials ranged from 0 . 6 % to 2 . 7 % ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Clinical Studies of Warfarin in Non - Rheumatic AF Patients * N Thromboembolism % Major Bleeding Study Warfarin - Treated Patients Control Patients PT Ratio INR % Risk Reduction p - value Warfarin - Treated Patients Control Patients AFASAK 335 336 1 . 5 to 2 2 . 8 to 4 . 2 60 0 . 027 0 . 6 0 SPAF 210 211 1 . 3 to 1 . 8 2 to 4 . 5 67 0 . 01 1 . 9 1 . 9 BAATAF 212 208 1 . 2 to 1 . 5 1 . 5 to 2 . 7 86 < 0 . 05 0 . 9 0 . 5 CAFA 187 191 1 . 3 to 1 . 6 2 to 3 45 0 . 25 2 . 7 0 . 5 SPINAF 260 265 1 . 2 to 1 . 5 1 . 4 to 2 . 8 79 0 . 001 2 . 3 1 . 5 * All study results of warfarin vs . control are based on intention - to - treat analysis and include ischemic stroke and systemic thromboembolism , excluding hemorrhagic stroke and transient ischemic attacks .
Trials in patients with both AF and mitral stenosis suggest a benefit from anticoagulation with warfarin sodium [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
14 . 2 Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart ValvesIn a prospective , randomized , open - label , positive - controlled study in 254 patients with mechanical prosthetic heart valves , the thromboembolic - free interval was found to be significantly greater in patients treated with warfarin alone compared with dipyridamole / aspirin - treated patients ( p < 0 . 005 ) and pentoxifylline / aspirin - treated patients ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The results of this study are presented in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Prospective , Randomized , Open - Label , Positive - Controlled Clinical Study of Warfarin in Patients with Mechanical Prosthetic Heart Valves Patients Treated With Warfarin Dipyridamole / Aspirin Pentoxifylline / Aspirin Event Thromboembolism 2 . 2 / 100 py 8 . 6 / 100 py 7 . 9 / 100 py Major bleeding 2 . 5 / 100 py 0 / 100 py 0 . 9 / 100 py py = patient years In a prospective , open - label , clinical study comparing moderate ( INR 2 . 65 ) vs . high intensity ( INR 9 ) warfarin therapies in 258 patients with mechanical prosthetic heart valves , thromboembolism occurred with similar frequency in the two groups ( 4 and 3 . 7 events per 100 patient years , respectively ) .
Major bleeding was more common in the high intensity group .
The results of this study are presented in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Prospective , Open - Label Clinical Study of Warfarin in Patients with Mechanical Prosthetic Heart Valves Event Moderate Warfarin Therapy INR 2 . 65 High Intensity Warfarin Therapy INR 9 Thromboembolism 4 / 100 py 3 . 7 / 100 py Major bleeding 0 . 95 / 100 py 2 . 1 / 100 py py = patient years In a randomized trial in 210 patients comparing two intensities of warfarin therapy ( INR 2 to 2 . 25 vs . INR 2 . 5 to 4 ) for a three month period following tissue heart valve replacement , thromboembolism occurred with similar frequency in the two groups ( major embolic events 2 % vs . 1 . 9 % , respectively , and minor embolic events 10 . 8 % vs . 10 . 2 % , respectively ) .
Major hemorrhages occurred in 4 . 6 % of patients in the higher intensity INR group compared to zero in the lower intensity INR group .
14 . 3 Myocardial InfarctionWARIS ( The Warfarin Re - Infarction Study ) was a double - blind , randomized study of 1214 patients 2 to 4 weeks post - infarction treated with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 8 to 4 . 8 .
The primary endpoint was a composite of total mortality and recurrent infarction .
A secondary endpoint of cerebrovascular events was assessed .
Mean follow - up of the patients was 37 months .
The results for each endpoint separately , including an analysis of vascular death , are provided in Table 7 : Table 7 : WARIS – Endpoint Analysis of Separate Events % Risk Warfarin Placebo Reduction Event ( N = 607 ) ( N = 607 ) RR ( 95 % CI ) ( p - value ) Total Patient Years of Follow - up 2018 1944 Total mortality 94 ( 4 . 7 / 100 py ) 123 ( 6 . 3 / 100 py ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 60 , 0 . 97 ) 24 ( p = 0 . 030 ) Vascular death 82 ( 4 . 1 / 100 py ) 105 ( 5 . 4 / 100 py ) 0 . 78 ( 0 . 60 , 1 . 02 ) 22 ( p = 0 . 068 ) Recurrent MI 82 ( 4 . 1 / 100 py ) 124 ( 6 . 4 / 100 py ) 0 . 66 ( 0 . 51 , 0 . 85 ) 34 ( p = 0 . 001 ) Cerebrovascular event 20 ( 1 / 100 py ) 44 ( 2 . 3 / 100 py ) 0 . 46 ( 0 . 28 , 0 . 75 ) 54 ( p = 0 . 002 ) RR = Relative risk ; Risk reduction = ( 1 - RR ) ; CI = Confidence interval ; MI = Myocardial infarction ; py = patient years WARIS II ( The Warfarin , Aspirin , Re - Infarction Study ) was an open - label , randomized study of 3630 patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction treated with warfarin to a target INR 2 . 8 to 4 . 2 , aspirin 160 mg per day , or warfarin to a target INR 2 to 2 . 5 plus aspirin 75 mg per day prior to hospital discharge .
The primary endpoint was a composite of death , nonfatal reinfarction , or thromboembolic stroke .
The mean duration of observation was approximately 4 years .
The results for WARIS II are provided in the Table 8 .
Table 8 : WARIS II – Distribution of Events According to Treatment Group * aMajor bleeding episodes were defined as nonfatal cerebral hemorrhage or bleeding necessitating surgical intervention or blood transfusion .
† bThe rate ratio is for aspirin plus warfarin as compared with aspirin .
‡ cThe rate ratio is for warfarin as compared with aspirin .
§ dMinor bleeding episodes were defined as non - cerebral hemorrhage not necessitating surgical intervention or blood transfusion .
¶ e Includes death , nonfatal reinfarction , and thromboembolic cerebral stroke .
Event Aspirin ( n = 1206 ) Warfarin ( n = 1216 ) Aspirin plus Warfarin ( n = 1208 ) Rate Ratio ( 95 % CI ) p - value No .
of Events Major bleedinga * 8 33 28 3 . 35 b † ( ND ) ND 4 c ‡ ( ND ) ND Minor bleedingd § 39 103 133 3 . 21 b † ( ND ) ND 2 . 55 c ‡ ( ND ) ND Composite endpointse ¶ 241 203 181 0 . 81 ( 0 . 69 to 0 . 95 ) b † 0 . 03 0 . 71 ( 0 . 60 to 0 . 83 ) c ‡ 0 . 001 Reinfarction 117 90 69 0 . 56 ( 0 . 41 to 0 . 78 ) b † < 0 . 001 0 . 74 ( 0 . 55 to 0 . 98 ) c ‡ 0 . 03 Thromboembolic stroke 32 17 17 0 . 52 ( 0 . 28 to 0 . 98 ) b † 0 . 03 0 . 52 ( 0 . 28 to 0 . 97 ) c ‡ 0 . 03 Death 92 96 95 0 . 82 CI = confidence interval ND = not determined There were approximately four times as many major bleeding episodes in the two groups receiving warfarin than in the group receiving aspirin alone .
Major bleeding episodes were not more frequent among patients receiving aspirin plus warfarin than among those receiving warfarin alone , but the incidence of minor bleeding episodes was higher in the combined therapy group .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
