Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Octinoxate 5 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 62 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions for suncreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Caprylyl methicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Boron nitride , PEG - 9 dimethicone , Talc , Mica , Disteardimonium hectorite , Butylene glycol , Bis - isobutyl PEG / PPG - 10 - 7 dimethicone crosspolymer , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Magnesium sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Polypropylsilsesquioxane , Panthenol , Tocopheryl acetate , Methylparaben , Aluminum hydroxide , Ethylparaben , Stearic acid , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , PEG / PPG dimethylallylether , Sodium hyaluronate , Tetrasodium EDTA , Isopropyl palmitate , Lecithin , BHT , Tocopherol , , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Description Long lasting foundation for a naturally flawless complexion with super - staying power .
This comfortable foundation feels lightweight and breathable and gives an even - toned beautifully smooth complexion that looks fresh all day long .
Stay Perfect : look great , no matter what .
Fragrance free , with SPF 15 and Vitamin E to protect and care for your skin .
Non pore blocking .
For Best Results : Shake before use .
Blend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
It can be relied on to stay perfect : up to 17 hours wear , weather - proof and transfer proof .
It wo n't cake or slake on dry skin nor slide and shine on oily skin .
Suitable for sensitive skin .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USa Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . boots . com Jar label No7 Stay Perfect Foundation Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz .
Active ingredients : Octinoxate 5 . 0 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 62 % Warnings warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Non stop complexion perfection All day wear Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in france www . boots . com Carton carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
