Active ingredient ( in each TEASPOON ) Psyllium husk approximately 3 . 4 g Purpose Fiber therapy for regularity Uses • ▪ for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) Warnings Allergy alert : This product may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium .
Choking : Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing .
If you experience chest pain , vomiting , or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product , seek immediate medical attention .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • ▪ a sudden change in bowel habits persisting for 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ Constipation lasts more than 7 days • ▪ Rectal bleeding occurs These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions : Put one dose into an empty glass .
Mix this product ( child or adult dose ) with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of water or other fluid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
See choking warning .
Stir briskly and drink promptly .
If mixture thickness , add more liquid and stir .
Adults 12 years & older : 1 rounded TEASPOON in 8 oz of liquid at the signs of irregularity .
Can be taken up to 3 times daily .
Generally produces effect in 12 - 72 hours .
6 - 11 yrs : ½ adult dose in 8 oz of liquid , up to 3 times daily Under 6 yrs : Consult a doctor Bulk - forming fibers like psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work .
If t = you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth , take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine .
As your body adjusts to increased fiber intake , you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating .
New Users : Start with 1 dose per day ; gradually increase to 3 doses per day as necessary Other information • ▪ each teaspoon contains : potassium 30 mg and sodium 5 mg • ▪ Store at room temperature tightly closed to protect from humidity • ▪ Do not use if printed inner seal is broken or missing • ▪ Contains a 100 % natural , therapeutic fiber Inactive ingredients silica , sucrose .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Fiber Supplement Information Uses : • ▪ Daily fiber supplement .
Each serving adds 3 grams of fiber to your diet .
• ▪ For lowering cholesterol to promote heart health .
Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that include 7 grams of soluble fiber per day from psyllium husk , as in this product , may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol .
One adults dose of this products has 2 . 4 grams of this soluble fiber .
Consult a doctor if you are considering use of this product as a part of a cholesterol lowering program .
Warnings Read entire label , including warnings in Drug Facts .
Directions Adults 12 years and older : put 1 rounded TEASPOON in to an empty glass and mix with 8 oz of liquid up to 3 times daily for daily fiber supplement ; 3 times daily to help maintain healthy blood sugar levels † and for cholesterol lowering to promote heart health .
under 12 years : Consult a doctor .
See mixing directions in Drug Facts .
NOTICE : Mix this product with at least 8 ounces ( a full glass ) of liquid .
Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking .
Do not take if you have difficulty swallowing .
See choking warning .
This product has a low glycemic index , a measure of the effect of dietary carbohydrates on blood sugar levels † .
Principal Display Panel QUALITY CHOICE ® NDC # 63868 - 347 - 17 Compare to the active ingredient in Metamucil ® MultiHealth Fiber * Natural Fiber Powder 100 % Natural Psyllium Husk Daily Fiber Supplement | Therapy for Regularity Helps Lower Cholesterol to Promote Heart Health ** Promotes Digestive Health † Helps Maintain Healthy Blood Sugar Levels as Part of Your Diet ** † Gluten Free Unflavored Original Coarse ** See fiber supplement information about soluble fiber and heart disease and maintaining healthy blood sugar levels .
48 teaspoon doses K PAREVE Net Wt .
13 oz ( 368 g ) fill controlled by weight , not volume 100 % QC SATISFACTION GUARANTEED † These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure or prevent any disease .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , the distributor , the distributor of Metamucil ® .
Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
