Active ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a PoisonControlCenter immediately .
Uses • • for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains and sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do not apply to wounds or to damaged or irritated skin .
When using this product • • you may experience a burning sensation which is normal and related to the way the product works .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears within several days .
• • avoid contact with eyes .
Do not get it on mucous membranes , into eyes , or on contact lenses .
If this occurs , rinse the affected area thoroughly with water .
• • do not apply immediately before or after activities such as bathing , swimming , sun bathing , or strenuous exercise • • do not apply heat to the treated areas immediately before or after use • • do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • • avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue .
This can result in coughing , sneezing , tearing , throat or respiratory irritation .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a doctor • • blistering occurs • • difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs • • severe burning persists Directions • • for persons under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before using • • apply a thin film of cream and gently rub in until fully absorbed • • for optimum relief , apply 3 to 4 times daily • • best results typically occur after 2 to 4 weeks of continuous use • • unless treating hands , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after use • • see package insert for more information Other information Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl myristate , PEG - 100 stearate , purified water , sorbitol solution & white petrolatum .
Questions or Comments ?
Call : 1 - 866 - 263 - 9003 , Mon - Thurs 9 : 00 am - 5 : 00 pm EST , Fri 9 : 00 am - 2 : 30 pm EST .
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 61787 - 442 - 02 CAPSAICIN 0 . 033 % TOPICAL ANALGESIC ORIGINAL STRENGTH ZOSTRIX NATURAL PAIN RELIEF BLOCKS YOUR BODY ’ S PAIN MESSENGER • ODOR FREE CREAM • WARMTH FROM CHILI PEPPERS NET WT 2 OZ ( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
