DESCRIPTION MAXALT [ 1 ] contains rizatriptan benzoate , a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine1B / 1 D ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist .
Rizatriptan benzoate is described chemically as : N , N - dimethyl - 5 - ( 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 H - indole - 3 - ethanamine monobenzoate and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C15H19N5 • C7H6O2 , representing a molecular weight of the free base of 269 . 4 .
Rizatriptan benzoate is a white to off - white , crystalline solid that is soluble in water at about 42 mg per mL ( expressed as free base ) at 25 ° C . MAXALT Tablets and MAXALT - MLT [ 2 ] Orally Disintegrating Tablets are available for oral administration in strengths of 5 and 10 mg ( corresponding to 7 . 265 mg or 14 . 53 mg of the benzoate salt , respectively ) .
Each compressed tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , ferric oxide ( red ) , and magnesium stearate .
Each lyophilized orally disintegrating tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : gelatin , mannitol , glycine , aspartame , and peppermint flavor .
[ 1 ] COPYRIGHT © 1998 , 2006 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . All rights reserved [ 2 ] COPYRIGHT © 1998 , 2006 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . All rights reserved [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Rizatriptan binds with high affinity to human cloned 5 - HT1B and 5 - HT1D receptors .
Rizatriptan has weak affinity for other 5 - HT1 receptor subtypes ( 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT1E , 5 - HT1F ) and the 5 - HT7 receptor , but has no significant activity at 5 - HT2 , 5 - HT3 , alpha - and beta - adrenergic , dopaminergic , histaminergic , muscarinic or benzodiazepine receptors .
Current theories on the etiology of migraine headache suggest that symptoms are due to local cranial vasodilatation and / or to the release of vasoactive and pro - inflammatory peptides from sensory nerve endings in an activated trigeminal system .
The therapeutic activity of rizatriptan in migraine can most likely be attributed to agonist effects at 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptors on the extracerebral , intracranial blood vessels that become dilated during a migraine attack and on nerve terminals in the trigeminal system .
Activation of these receptors results in cranial vessel constriction , inhibition of neuropeptide release and reduced transmission in trigeminal pain pathways .
Pharmacokinetics Rizatriptan is completely absorbed following oral administration .
The mean oral absolute bioavailability of the MAXALT Tablet is about 45 % , and mean peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) are reached in approximately 1 - 1 . 5 hours ( Tmax ) .
The presence of a migraine headache did not appear to affect the absorption or pharmacokinetics of rizatriptan .
Food has no significant effect on the bioavailability of rizatriptan but delays the time to reach peak concentration by an hour .
In clinical trials , MAXALT was administered without regard to food .
The plasma half - life of rizatriptan in males and females averages 2 - 3 hours .
The bioavailability and Cmax of rizatriptan were similar following administration of MAXALT Tablets and MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets , but the rate of absorption is somewhat slower with MAXALT - MLT , with Tmax averaging 1 . 6 - 2 . 5 hours .
AUC of rizatriptan is approximately 30 % higher in females than in males .
No accumulation occurred on multiple dosing .
The mean volume of distribution is approximately 140 liters in male subjects and 110 liters in female subjects .
Rizatriptan is minimally bound ( 14 % ) to plasma proteins .
The primary route of rizatriptan metabolism is via oxidative deamination by monoamine oxidase - A ( MAO - A ) to the indole acetic acid metabolite , which is not active at the 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptor .
N - monodesmethyl - rizatriptan , a metabolite with activity similar to that of parent compound at the 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptor , is formed to a minor degree .
Plasma concentrations of N - monodesmethyl - rizatriptan are approximately 14 % of those of parent compound , and it is eliminated at a similar rate .
Other minor metabolites , the N - oxide , the 6 - hydroxy compound , and the sulfate conjugate of the 6 - hydroxy metabolite are not active at the 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptor .
The total radioactivity of the administered dose recovered over 120 hours in urine and feces was 82 % and 12 % , respectively , following a single 10 mg oral administration of 14 C - rizatriptan .
Following oral administration of 14 C - rizatriptan , rizatriptan accounted for about 17 % of circulating plasma radioactivity .
Approximately 14 % of an oral dose is excreted in urine as unchanged rizatriptan while 51 % is excreted as indole acetic acid metabolite , indicating substantial first pass metabolism .
Cytochrome P450 Isoforms : Rizatriptan is not an inhibitor of the activities of human liver cytochrome P450 isoforms 3A4 / 5 , 1A2 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 2E1 ; rizatriptan is a competitive inhibitor ( Ki = 1400 nM ) of cytochrome P450 2D6 , but only at high , clinically irrelevant concentrations .
Special Populations Age : Rizatriptan pharmacokinetics in healthy elderly non - migraineur volunteers ( age 65 - 77 years ) were similar to those in younger non - migraineur volunteers ( age 18 - 45 years ) .
Gender : The mean AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax of rizatriptan ( 10 mg orally ) were about 30 % and 11 % higher in females as compared to males , respectively , while Tmax occurred at approximately the same time .
Hepatic impairment : Following oral administration in patients with hepatic impairment caused by mild to moderate alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver , plasma concentrations of rizatriptan were similar in patients with mild hepatic insufficiency compared to a control group of healthy subjects ; plasma concentrations of rizatriptan were approximately 30 % greater in patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Renal impairment : In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 10 - 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the AUC0 - ∞ of rizatriptan was not significantly different from that in healthy subjects .
In hemodialysis patients , ( creatinine clearance < 2 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , however , the AUC for rizatriptan was approximately 44 % greater than that in patients with normal renal function .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Race : Pharmacokinetic data revealed no significant differences between African American and Caucasian subjects .
Drug Interactions ( See also PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors : Rizatriptan is principally metabolized via monoamine oxidase , ‘ A ’ subtype ( MAO - A ) .
Plasma concentrations of rizatriptan may be increased by drugs that are selective MAO - A inhibitors ( e . g . , moclobemide ) or nonselective MAO inhibitors [ type A and B ] ( e . g . , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , tranylcypromine , and pargyline ) .
In a drug interaction study , when MAXALT 10 mg was administered to subjects ( n = 12 ) receiving concomitant therapy with the selective , reversible MAO - A inhibitor , moclobemide 150 mg t . i . d . , there were mean increases in rizatriptan AUC and Cmax of 119 % and 41 % respectively ; and the AUC of the active N - monodesmethyl metabolite of rizatriptan was increased more than 400 % .
The interaction would be expected to be greater with irreversible MAO inhibitors .
No pharmacokinetic interaction is anticipated in patients receiving selective MAO - B inhibitors .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ; PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Propranolol : In a study of concurrent administration of propranolol 240 mg / day and a single dose of rizatriptan 10 mg in healthy subjects ( n = 11 ) , mean plasma AUC for rizatriptan was increased by 70 % during propranolol administration , and a fourfold increase was observed in one subject .
The AUC of the active N - monodesmethyl metabolite of rizatriptan was not affected by propranolol .
( See PRECAUTIONS ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Nadolol / Metoprolol : In a drug interactions study , effects of multiple doses of nadolol 80 mg or metoprolol 100 mg every 12 hours on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of 10 mg rizatriptan were evaluated in healthy subjects ( n = 12 ) .
No pharmacokinetic interactions were observed .
Paroxetine : In a study of the interaction between the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) paroxetine 20 mg / day for two weeks and a single dose of MAXALT 10 mg in healthy subjects ( n = 12 ) , neither the plasma concentrations of rizatriptan nor its safety profile were affected by paroxetine ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ) .
Oral contraceptives : In a study of concurrent administration of an oral contraceptive during 6 days of administration of MAXALT ( 10 - 30 mg / day ) in healthy female volunteers ( n = 18 ) , rizatriptan did not affect plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol or norethindrone .
Clinical Studies The efficacy of MAXALT Tablets was established in four multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled trials .
Patients enrolled in these studies were primarily female ( 84 % ) and Caucasian ( 88 % ) , with a mean age of 40 years ( range of 18 to 71 ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction of moderate or severe headache pain to no or mild headache pain , was assessed for up to 2 hours ( Study 1 ) or up to 4 hours after dosing ( Studies 2 , 3 and 4 ) .
Associated symptoms of nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia and maintenance of response up to 24 hours postdose were evaluated .
A second dose of MAXALT Tablets was allowed 2 to 24 hours after dosing for treatment of recurrent headache in Studies 1 and 2 .
Additional analgesics and / or antiemetics were allowed 2 hours after initial treatment for rescue in all four studies .
In all studies , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater in patients who received either MAXALT 5 or 10 mg compared to those who received placebo .
In a separate study , doses of 2 . 5 mg were not different from placebo .
Doses greater than 10 mg were associated with an increased incidence of adverse effects .
The results from the 4 controlled studies using the marketed formulation are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Response Rates 2 Hours Following Treatment of Initial HeadacheStudy Placebo MAXALT Tablets 5 mg MAXALT Tablets 10 mg 1 35 % ( n = 304 ) 62 % [ 1 ] ( n = 458 ) 71 % null , [ 2 ] ( n = 456 ) 2 [ 3 ] 37 % ( n = 82 ) — 77 % null ( n = 320 ) 3 23 % ( n = 80 ) 63 % null ( n = 352 ) — 4 40 % ( n = 159 ) 60 % null ( n = 164 ) 67 % null ( n = 385 ) [ 1 ] p value < 0 . 05 in comparison with placebo [ 2 ] p value < 0 . 05 in comparison with 5 mg [ 3 ] Results for initial headache only .
Comparisons of drug performance based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response within 2 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For patients with migraine - associated photophobia , phonophobia , and nausea at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of MAXALT compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain response in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Efficacy was unaffected by the presence of aura ; by the gender , or age of the patient ; or by concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , tricyclic antidepressants ) or oral contraceptives .
In two additional similar studies , efficacy was unaffected by relationship to menses .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on efficacy .
In a single study in adolescents ( n = 291 ) , there were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups .
The headache response rates at 2 hours were 66 % and 56 % for MAXALT 5 mg Tablets and placebo , respectively .
MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets The efficacy of MAXALT - MLT was established in two multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled trials that were similar in design to the trials of MAXALT Tablets .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Patients treated in these studies were primarily female ( 88 % ) and Caucasian ( 95 % ) , with a mean age of 42 years ( range 18 - 72 ) .
In both studies , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater in patients who received either MAXALT - MLT 5 or 10 mg compared to those who received placebo .
The results from the 2 controlled studies using the marketed formulation are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Response Rates 2 Hours Following Treatment of Initial HeadacheStudy Placebo MAXALT - MLT 5 mg MAXALT - MLT 10 mg 1 47 % ( n = 98 ) 66 % [ 1 ] ( n = 100 ) 66 % null ( n = 113 ) 2 28 % ( n = 180 ) 59 % null ( n = 181 ) 74 % null , [ 2 ] ( n = 186 ) [ 1 ] p value < 0 . 01 in comparison with placebo [ 2 ] p value < 0 . 01 in comparison with 5 mg The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response by 2 hours following treatment with MAXALT - MLT is depicted in Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For patients with migraine - associated photophobia and phonophobia at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of MAXALT - MLT as compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain response in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE MAXALT is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults .
MAXALT is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of MAXALT have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MAXALT should not be given to patients with ischemic heart disease ( e . g . , angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) or to patients who have symptoms or findings consistent with ischemic heart disease , coronary artery vasospasm , including Prinzmetal ’ s variant angina , or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease ( see WARNINGS ) .
Because MAXALT may increase blood pressure , it should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see WARNINGS ) .
MAXALT should not be used within 24 hours of treatment with another 5 - HT1 agonist , or an ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medication like dihydroergotamine or methysergide .
MAXALT should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
Concurrent administration of MAO inhibitors or use of rizatriptan within 2 weeks of discontinuation of MAO inhibitor therapy is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
MAXALT is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to rizatriptan or any of its inactive ingredients .
WARNINGS MAXALT should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events : Because of the potential of this class of compounds ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists ) to cause coronary vasospasm , MAXALT should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is strongly recommended that rizatriptan not be given to patients in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ’ s medical history , electrocardiographic or other investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with , coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , rizatriptan should not be administered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of rizatriptan take place in the setting of a physician ’ s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received rizatriptan .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following MAXALT , in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of MAXALT and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use MAXALT .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to rizatriptan .
Cardiac Events and Fatalities Associated with 5 - HT1 Agonists : Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , have been reported within a few hours following the administration of rizatriptan .
Life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of other 5 - HT1 agonists .
Considering the extent of use of 5 - HT1 agonists in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
MAXALT can cause coronary vasospasm .
Because of the close proximity of the events to MAXALT use , a causal relationship cannot be excluded .
In the cases where there has been known underlying coronary artery disease , the relationship is uncertain .
Premarketing experience with rizatriptan : Among the 3700 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing clinical trials of MAXALT , one patient was reported to have chest pain with possible ischemic ECG changes following a single dose of 10 mg .
Postmarketing experience with rizatriptan : Serious cardiovascular events have been reported in association with the use of MAXALT .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to determine definitively the proportion of the reported cases that were actually caused by rizatriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases .
Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities Associated with 5 - HT1 Agonists : Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5 - HT1 agonists ; and some have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , stroke , hemorrhage , transient ischemic attack ) .
Other Vasospasm - Related Events : 5 - HT1 agonists may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm .
Both peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5 - HT1 agonists .
Increase in Blood Pressure : Significant elevation in blood pressure , including hypertensive crisis , has been reported on rare occasions in patients receiving 5 - HT1 agonists with and without a history of hypertension .
In healthy young male and female subjects who received maximal doses of MAXALT ( 10 mg every 2 hours for 3 doses ) , slight increases in blood pressure ( approximately 2 - 3 mmHg ) were observed .
Rizatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
An 18 % increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure was seen following dosing with another 5 - HT1 agonist in a study evaluating subjects undergoing cardiac catheterization .
Serotonin Syndrome : The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including MAXALT treatment , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
If concomitant treatment with rizatriptan and an SSRI ( e . g . , fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , citalopram , escitalopram ) or SNRI ( e . g . , venlafaxine , duloxetine ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , sensations of tightness , pain , pressure , and heaviness have been reported after treatment with MAXALT in the precordium , throat , neck and jaw .
These events have not been associated with arrhythmias or definite ischemic ECG changes in clinical trials ( one patient experienced chest pain with possible ischemic ECG changes ) .
Because drugs in this class may cause coronary artery vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following dosing should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal ’ s variant angina before receiving additional doses of medication , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud ’ s syndrome following the use of any 5 - HT1 agonist are candidates for further evaluation ( see WARNINGS ) .
Rizatriptan should also be administered with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption , metabolism , or excretion of drugs ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
Renally Impaired Patients : Rizatriptan should be used with caution in dialysis patients due to a decrease in the clearance of rizatriptan ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
Hepatically Impaired Patients : Rizatriptan should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency due to an increase in plasma concentrations of approximately 30 % ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
For a given attack , if a patient has no response to the first dose of rizatriptan , the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before administration of a second dose .
Binding to Melanin - Containing Tissues The propensity for rizatriptan to bind melanin has not been investigated .
Based on its chemical properties , rizatriptan may bind to melanin and accumulate in melanin rich tissue ( e . g . , eye ) over time .
This raises the possibility that rizatriptan could cause toxicity in these tissues after extended use .
There were , however , no adverse ophthalmologic changes related to treatment with rizatriptan in the one year dog toxicity study .
Although no systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function was undertaken in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring are offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long - term ophthalmologic effects .
Phenylketonurics Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 5 - mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1 . 05 mg phenylalanine , and each 10 - mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 2 . 10 mg phenylalanine .
Information for Patients Migraine or treatment with MAXALT may cause somnolence in some patients .
Dizziness has also been reported in some patients receiving MAXALT .
Patients should , therefore , evaluate their ability to perform complex tasks during migraine attacks and after administration of MAXALT .
Physicians should instruct their patients to read the patient package insert before taking MAXALT .
See the accompanying PATIENT INFORMATION leaflet .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of rizatriptan or other triptans , especially during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) ( see WARNINGS ) .
MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets Patients should be instructed not to remove the blister from the outer pouch until just prior to dosing .
The blister pack should then be peeled open with dry hands and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended for monitoring patients prior to and / or after treatment with MAXALT .
Drug Interactions ( See also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions . )
Propranolol : Rizatriptan 5 mg should be used in patients taking propranolol , as propranolol has been shown to increase the plasma concentrations of rizatriptan by 70 % ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Ergot - containing drugs : Ergot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because there is a theoretical basis that these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) and rizatriptan within 24 hours is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Other 5 - HT1 agonists : The administration of rizatriptan with other 5 - HT1 agonists has not been evaluated in migraine patients .
Because their vasospastic effects may be additive , coadministration of rizatriptan and other 5 - HT1 agonists within 24 hours of each other is not recommended ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome : Cases of life - threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) and triptans ( see WARNINGS ) .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors : Rizatriptan should not be administered to patients taking MAO - A inhibitors and non - selective MAO inhibitors ; it has been shown that moclobemide ( a specific MAO - A inhibitor ) increased the systemic exposure of rizatriptan and its metabolite ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions ; CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions MAXALT is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : The lifetime carcinogenic potential of rizatriptan was evaluated in a 100 - week study in mice and a 106 - week study in rats at oral gavage doses of up to 125 mg / kg / day .
Exposure data were not obtained in those studies , but plasma AUC ’ s of parent drug measured in other studies after 5 and 21 weeks of oral dosing in mice and rats , respectively , indicate that the exposures to parent drug at the highest dose level in the carcinogenicity studies would have been approximately 150 times ( mice ) and 240 times ( rats ) average AUC ’ s measured in humans after three 10 mg doses , the maximum recommended total daily dose .
There was no evidence of an increase in tumor incidence related to rizatriptan in either species .
Mutagenesis : Rizatriptan , with and without metabolic activation , was neither mutagenic , nor clastogenic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity studies , including : the microbial mutagenesis ( Ames ) assay , the in vitro mammalian cell mutagenesis assay in V - 79 Chinese hamster lung cells , the in vitro alkaline elution assay in rat hepatocytes , the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells and the in vivo chromosomal aberration assay in mouse bone marrow .
Impairment of Fertility : In a fertility study in rats , altered estrus cyclicity and delays in time to mating were observed in females treated orally with 100 mg / kg / day rizatriptan .
Plasma drug exposure ( AUC ) at this dose was approximately 225 times the exposure in humans receiving the maximum recommended daily dose ( MRDD ) of 30 mg .
The no - effect dose was 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 15 times the human exposure at the MRDD ) .
There were no other fertility - related effects in the female rats .
There was no impairment of fertility or reproductive performance in male rats treated with up to 250 mg / kg / day ( approximately 550 times the human exposure at the MRDD ) .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C In a general reproductive study in rats , birth weights and pre - and post - weaning weight gain were reduced in the offspring of females treated prior to and during mating and throughout gestation and lactation with doses of 10 and 100 mg / kg / day .
Maternal drug exposures ( AUC ) at these doses were approximately 15 and 225 times , respectively , the exposure in humans receiving the maximum recommended daily dose ( MRDD ) of 30 mg .
In a pre - and post - natal developmental toxicity study in rats , an increase in mortality of the offspring at birth and for the first three days after birth , a decrease in pre - and post - weaning weight gain , and decreased performance in a passive avoidance test ( which indicates a decrease in learning capacity of the offspring ) were observed at doses of 100 and 250 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose for all of these effects was 5 mg / kg / day , approximately 7 . 5 times the exposure in humans receiving the MRDD .
With doses of 100 and 250 mg / kg / day , the decreases in average weight of both the male and female offspring persisted into adulthood .
All of these effects on the offspring in both reproductive toxicity studies occurred in the absence of any apparent maternal toxicity .
In embryofetal development studies , no teratogenic effects were observed when pregnant rats and rabbits were administered doses of 100 and 50 mg / kg / day , respectively , during organogenesis .
Fetal weights were decreased in conjunction with decreased maternal weight gain at the highest doses ( maternal exposures approximately 225 and 115 times the human exposure at the MRDD in rats and rabbits , respectively ) .
The developmental no - effect dose in these studies was 10 mg / kg / day in both rats and rabbits ( maternal exposures approximately 15 times human exposure at the MRDD ) .
Toxicokinetic studies demonstrated placental transfer of drug in both species .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women ; therefore , rizatriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , maintains a registry to monitor the pregnancy outcomes of women exposed to MAXALT while pregnant .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to report any prenatal exposure to MAXALT by calling the Pregnancy Registry at ( 800 ) 986 - 8999 .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MAXALT is administered to women who are breast - feeding .
Rizatriptan is extensively excreted in rat milk , at a level of 5 - fold or greater than maternal plasma levels .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of rizatriptan in pediatric patients have not been established ; therefore , MAXALT is not recommended for use in patients under 18 years of age .
The efficacy of MAXALT Tablets ( 5 mg ) in patients aged 12 to 17 years was not established in a randomized placebo - controlled trial of 291 adolescent migraineurs ( see Clinical Studies ) .
Adverse events observed were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
Postmarketing experience with other triptans includes a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced clinically serious adverse events that are similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
The long - term safety of rizatriptan in pediatric patients has not been studied .
Geriatric Use The pharmacokinetics of rizatriptan were similar in elderly ( aged ≥ 65 years ) and in younger adults .
Because migraine occurs infrequently in the elderly , clinical experience with MAXALT is limited in such patients .
In clinical trials , there were no apparent differences in efficacy or in overall adverse experience rates between patients under 65 years of age and those 65 and above ( n = 17 ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events , including some that have been fatal , have occurred following use of 5 - HT1 agonists .
These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials : Adverse experiences to rizatriptan were assessed in controlled clinical trials that included over 3700 patients who received single or multiple doses of MAXALT Tablets .
The most common adverse events during treatment with MAXALT were asthenia / fatigue , somnolence , pain / pressure sensation and dizziness .
These events appeared to be dose related .
In long term extension studies where patients were allowed to treat multiple attacks for up to 1 year , 4 % ( 59 out of 1525 patients ) withdrew because of adverse experiences .
Table 3 lists the adverse events regardless of drug relationship ( incidence ≥ 2 % and greater than placebo ) after a single dose of MAXALT .
The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population .
In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials , these frequency estimates may not apply , as the conditions of use , reporting behavior , and the kinds of patients treated may differ .
Table 3 : Incidence ( ≥ 2 % and Greater than Placebo ) of Adverse Experiences After a Single Dose of MAXALT Tablets or Placebo % of Patients Adverse Experiences MAXALT 5 mg ( N = 977 ) MAXALT 10 mg ( N = 1167 ) Placebo ( N = 627 ) Atypical Sensations 4 5 4 Paresthesia 3 4 < 2 Pain and other Pressure Sensations 6 9 3 Chest Pain : tightness / pressure and / or heaviness < 2 3 1 Neck / throat / jaw : pain / tightness / pressure < 2 2 1 Regional Pain : tightness / pressure / heaviness < 1 2 0 Pain , location unspecified 3 3 < 2 Digestive 9 13 8 Dry Mouth 3 3 1 Nausea 4 6 4 Neurological 14 20 11 Dizziness 4 9 5 Headache < 2 2 < 1 Somnolence 4 8 4 Other Asthenia / fatigue 4 7 2 MAXALT was generally well - tolerated .
Adverse experiences were typically mild in intensity and were transient .
The frequencies of adverse experiences in clinical trials did not increase when up to three doses were taken within 24 hours .
Adverse event frequencies were also unchanged by concomitant use of drugs commonly taken for migraine prophylaxis ( including propranolol ) , oral contraceptives , or analgesics .
The incidences of adverse experiences were not affected by age or gender .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events .
Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of MAXALT : In the section that follows , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical events are presented .
Because the reports include events observed in open studies , the role of MAXALT in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Furthermore , variability associated with adverse event reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse events , etc . , limit the value of the quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used MAXALT ( N = 3716 ) and reported an event divided by the total number of patients exposed to MAXALT .
All reported events are included , except those already listed in the previous table , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are those defined as those occurring in at least ( > ) 1 / 100 patients ; infrequent adverse experiences are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients ; and rare adverse experiences are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1000 patients .
General : Infrequent were chills , heat sensitivity , facial edema , hangover effect , and abdominal distention .
Rare were fever , orthostatic effects , syncope and edema / swelling .
Atypical Sensations : Frequent were warm / cold sensations .
Cardiovascular : Frequent was palpitation .
Infrequent were tachycardia , cold extremities , hypertension , arrhythmia , and bradycardia .
Rare was angina pectoris .
Digestive : Frequent were diarrhea and vomiting .
Infrequent were dyspepsia , thirst , acid regurgitation , dysphagia , constipation , flatulence , and tongue edema .
Rare were anorexia , appetite increase , gastritis , paralysis ( tongue ) , and eructation .
Metabolic : Infrequent was dehydration .
Musculoskeletal : Infrequent were muscle weakness , stiffness , myalgia , muscle cramp , musculoskeletal pain , arthralgia , and muscle spasm .
Neurological / Psychiatric : Frequent were hypesthesia , mental acuity decreased , euphoria and tremor .
Infrequent were nervousness , vertigo , insomnia , anxiety , depression , disorientation , ataxia , dysarthria , confusion , dream abnormality , gait abnormality , irritability , memory impairment , agitation and hyperesthesia .
Rare were : dysesthesia , depersonalization , akinesia / bradykinesia , apprehension , hyperkinesia , hypersomnia , and hyporeflexia .
Respiratory : Frequent was dyspnea .
Infrequent were pharyngitis , irritation ( nasal ) , congestion ( nasal ) , dry throat , upper respiratory infection , yawning , respiratory congestion ( nasal ) , dry nose , epistaxis , and sinus disorder .
Rare were cough , hiccups , hoarseness , rhinorrhea , sneezing , tachypnea , and pharyngeal edema .
Special Senses : Infrequent were blurred vision , tinnitus , dry eyes , burning eye , eye pain , eye irritation , ear pain , and tearing .
Rare were hyperacusis , smell perversion , photophobia , photopsia , itching eye , and eye swelling .
Skin and Skin Appendage : Frequent was flushing .
Infrequent were sweating , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Rare were erythema , acne , and photosensitivity .
Urogenital System : Frequent was hot flashes .
Infrequent were urinary frequency , polyuria , and menstruation disorder .
Rare was dysuria .
The adverse experience profile seen with MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets was similar to that seen with MAXALT Tablets .
Postmarketing Experience The following section enumerates potentially important adverse events that have occurred in clinical practice and which have been reported spontaneously to various surveillance systems .
The events enumerated represent reports arising from both domestic and non - domestic use of rizatriptan .
The events enumerated include all except those already listed in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section above or those too general to be informative .
Because the reports cite events reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience , frequency of events and the role of rizatriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Cardiovascular : Myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , peripheral vascular ischemia ( see WARNINGS ) .
Cerebrovascular : Stroke .
Neurological / Psychiatric : Serotonin syndrome ( see WARNINGS ) , seizure .
Special Senses : Dysgeusia .
General : Hypersensitivity reaction , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reaction , angioedema ( e . g . , facial edema , tongue swelling , pharyngeal edema ) , wheezing , toxic epidermal necrolysis .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Although the abuse potential of MAXALT has not been specifically assessed , no abuse of , tolerance to , withdrawal from , or drug - seeking behavior was observed in patients who received MAXALT in clinical trials or their extensions .
The 5 - HT1B / 1 D agonists , as a class , have not been associated with drug abuse .
OVERDOSAGE No overdoses of MAXALT were reported during clinical trials .
Rizatriptan 40 mg ( administered as either a single dose or as two doses with a 2 - hour interdose interval ) was generally well tolerated in over 300 patients ; dizziness and somnolence were the most common drug - related adverse effects .
In a clinical pharmacology study in which 12 subjects received rizatriptan , at total cumulative doses of 80 mg ( given within four hours ) , two subjects experienced syncope and / or bradycardia .
One subject , a female aged 29 years , developed vomiting , bradycardia , and dizziness beginning three hours after receiving a total of 80 mg rizatriptan ( administered over two hours ) ; a third degree AV block , responsive to atropine , was observed an hour after the onset of the other symptoms .
The second subject , a 25 year old male , experienced transient dizziness , syncope , incontinence , and a 5 - second systolic pause ( on ECG monitor ) immediately after a painful venipuncture .
The venipuncture occurred two hours after the subject had received a total of 80 mg rizatriptan ( administered over four hours ) .
In addition , based on the pharmacology of rizatriptan , hypertension or other more serious cardiovascular symptoms could occur after overdosage .
Gastrointestinal decontamination , ( i . e . , gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal ) should be considered in patients suspected of an overdose with MAXALT .
Clinical and electrocardiographic monitoring should be continued for at least 12 hours , even if clinical symptoms are not observed .
The effects of hemo - or peritoneal dialysis on serum concentrations of rizatriptan are unknown .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In controlled clinical trials , single doses of 5 and 10 mg of MAXALT Tablets or MAXALT - MLT were effective for the acute treatment of migraines in adults .
There is evidence that the 10 - mg dose may provide a greater effect than the 5 - mg dose ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ) .
Individuals may vary in response to doses of MAXALT Tablets .
The choice of dose should therefore be made on an individual basis , weighing the possible benefit of the 10 - mg dose with the potential risk for increased adverse events .
Redosing : Doses should be separated by at least 2 hours ; no more than 30 mg should be taken in any 24 - hour period .
The safety of treating , on average , more than four headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
Patients receiving propranolol : In patients receiving propranolol , the 5 - mg dose of MAXALT should be used , up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24 - hour period .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug Interactions . )
For MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets , administration with liquid is not necessary .
The orally disintegrating tablet is packaged in a blister within an outer aluminum pouch .
Patients should be instructed not to remove the blister from the outer pouch until just prior to dosing .
The blister pack should then be peeled open with dry hands and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
HOW SUPPLIED No . 3733 — MAXALT Tablets , 10 mg , are pale pink , capsule - shaped , compressed tablets coded MAXALT on one side and MRK 267 on the other .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 21695 - 956 - 18 , carton of 18 tablets .
Storage Store MAXALT Tablets at room temperature , 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight container , if product is subdivided .
Store MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets at room temperature , 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
The patient should be instructed not to remove the blister from the outer aluminum pouch until the patient is ready to consume the orally disintegrating tablet inside .
MAXALT Tablets are manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA By : MSD , Ltd .
Cramlington , Northumberland , NE23 3 JU , UK MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets are manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA By : Catalent UK Swindon , Zydis Ltd .
Swindon , Wiltshire , SN5 8 RU , UK US Patent No . : 5 , 298 , 520 Issued August 2010 9652508 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information about MAXALT ® ( max - awlt ) and MAXALT - MLT ® for Migraine Generic name : rizatriptan benzoate Please read this information before you start taking MAXALT [ 1 ] .
Also , read the leaflet each time you renew your prescription , just in case anything has changed .
Remember , this leaflet does not take the place of careful discussions with your doctor .
You and your doctor should discuss MAXALT when you start taking your medication and at regular checkups .
[ 1 ] COPYRIGHT © 1998 , 2006 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . All rights reserved What is MAXALT and what is it used for ?
MAXALT is a medication used for the treatment of migraine attacks in adults .
MAXALT is a member of a class of drugs called selective 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptor agonists .
It is available as a traditional tablet ( MAXALT ) and as an orally disintegrating tablet ( MAXALT - MLT [ 1 ] ) .
Unless otherwise stated , the information contained in this leaflet applies both to MAXALT Tablets and to MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets .
Tell your doctor about your symptoms .
Your doctor will decide if you have migraine .
Use MAXALT only for a migraine attack .
MAXALT should not be used to treat headaches that might be caused by other , more serious conditions .
You will find more information about migraine at the end of this leaflet .
[ 1 ] COPYRIGHT © 1998 , 2006 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . All rights reserved How should I take MAXALT ?
Your doctor has prescribed either a 5 - mg or 10 - mg dosage of MAXALT or MAXALT - MLT for your migraine attack .
When you have a migraine headache , take your medication as directed by your doctor .
MAXALT Tablets If you are using MAXALT Tablets , swallow the tablet whole with liquid .
MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets If you are using MAXALT - MLT , leave the orally disintegrating tablet in its package until you are ready to take it .
Remove the blister from the foil pouch .
Do not push the tablet through the blister ; rather , peel open the blister pack with dry hands and place the tablet on your tongue .
The tablet will dissolve rapidly and be swallowed with your saliva .
No liquid is needed to take the orally disintegrating tablet .
If your headache comes back after your initial dose , a second dose may be taken anytime after 2 hours of administering the first dose .
For any attack where you have no response to the first dose , do not take a second dose without first consulting with your doctor .
Do not take more than 30 mg of MAXALT in a 24 - hour period ( for example , do not take more than three 10 - mg tablets in a 24 - hour period ) .
If you are receiving propranolol , you should use the 5 - mg dose of MAXALT or MAXALT - MLT , up to a maximum of 3 doses ( 15 mg total ) in a 24 - hour period .
If your condition worsens , seek medical attention .
Who should not take MAXALT ?
Do not take MAXALT if you : • have had a serious allergic reaction to MAXALT or any of its ingredients • have uncontrolled high blood pressure • have heart disease or history of heart disease • are currently taking monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors [ 1 ] such as phenelzine sulfate ( NARDIL ® ) or tranylcypromine sulfate ( PARNATE ® ) for mental depression , or have taken MAO inhibitors within the last two weeks .
MAXALT should not be used within 24 hours of treatment with another 5 - HT1 agonist [ 2 ] such as sumatriptan ( IMITREX ® ) , naratriptan ( AMERGE ™ ) or zolmitriptan ( ZOMIG ™ ) ; or ergotamine - type medications such as ergotamine ( BELLERGAL - S ® , CAFERGOT ® , ERGOMAR ® , WIGRAINE ® ) , dihydro - ergotamine ( D . H . E . 45 ® ) , or methysergide ( SANSERT ® ) .
[ 1 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . [ 2 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
What should I tell my doctor before and during treatment with MAXALT ?
Tell your doctor : • about any past or present medical problems • about any history of high blood pressure , chest pain , shortness of breath , heart disease , or stroke • about any risk factors for heart disease or blood vessel disease • high blood pressure or diabetes • high cholesterol • obesity • smoking • family history of heart disease or blood vessel disease • post menopausal • male over 40 • about any allergies you have or have had • if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant • if you are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed • about all drugs you are taking or plan to take , including those obtained without a prescription , and those you normally take for a migraine .
• if you take selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , two types of drugs for depression or other disorders .
Common SSRIs [ 1 ] are CELEXA ® ( citalopram HBr ) , LEXAPRO ® ( escitalopram oxalate ) , PAXIL ® ( paroxetine ) , PROZAC ® / SARAFEM ® ( fluoxetine ) , SYMBYAX ® ( olanzapine / fluoxetine ) , ZOLOFT ® ( sertraline ) , and fluvoxamine .
Common SNRIs [ 2 ] are CYMBALTA ® ( duloxetine ) and EFFEXOR ® ( venlafaxine ) .
MAXALT - MLT orally disintegrating tablets contain aspartame , a source of phenylalanine .
Phenylketonurics : MAXALT - MLT 5 - mg and 10 - mg orally disintegrating tablets contain 1 . 05 and 2 . 10 mg phenylalanine , respectively .
[ 1 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . [ 2 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
What if I am pregnant ?
Do not use MAXALT if you are pregnant , think you might be pregnant , are trying to become pregnant , or are not using adequate contraception , unless you have discussed this with your doctor .
Can I take MAXALT with other medications [ 1 ] ?
Do not take MAXALT with any other drug in the same class within 24 hours , such as sumatriptan ( IMITREX ® ) , naratriptan ( AMERGE ™ ) or zolmitriptan ( ZOMIG ™ ) .
Do not take MAXALT within 24 hours of taking ergotamine - type medications such as ergotamine ( BELLERGAL - S ® , CAFERGOT ® , ERGOMAR ® , WIGRAINE ® ) , dihydro - ergotamine ( D . H . E . 45 ® ) or methysergide ( SANSERT ® ) to treat your migraine .
Do not take MAXALT when you are taking monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , such as phenelzine sulfate ( NARDIL ® ) or tranylcypromine sulfate ( PARNATE ® ) for mental depression , or if it has been less than two weeks since you stopped taking an MAO inhibitor .
Ask your doctor for instructions about taking MAXALT if you are now taking propranolol ( INDERAL ® ) .
( See How should I take MAXALT ?
section . )
Ask your doctor for instructions about taking MAXALT if you are now taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , two types of drugs for depression or other disorders .
( See What should I tell my doctor before and during treatment with MAXALT ?
section . )
[ 1 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
What are the possible side effects of MAXALT ?
Like all prescription drugs , MAXALT can cause side effects .
In studies , MAXALT was generally well - tolerated .
The side effects were usually mild and temporary .
The following is not a complete list of side effects reported with MAXALT .
Do not rely on this leaflet alone for information about side effects .
Ask your doctor to discuss with you the more complete list of side effects .
In studies , the most common side effects reported were : • dizziness • sleepiness , tiredness , fatigue • pain or pressure sensation ( e . g . , in the chest or throat ) If you experience dizziness , sleepiness , tiredness or fatigue , you should evaluate your ability to perform complex tasks such as driving or operating heavy machinery .
Other , less common side effects reported in studies or general use were related to the : Heart and blood vessels - Alterations in heartbeat , increased blood pressure and spasm of blood vessels of the extremities including coldness and numbness of the hands or feet .
Muscles - Muscle weakness , stiffness , and spasm ; and muscle and bone pain .
Nervous system - Nervousness , decreased mental sharpness , tremor , headache , abnormal sensation , vertigo , sleep disturbance , mood and personality changes , alterations in speech and movement , memory impairment , confusion , dream abnormality and seizure .
Digestive system - Stomach upset , diarrhea , dry mouth , constipation , gas , thirst , acid reflux , difficulty swallowing , changes in appetite , burping and inability of the tongue to move .
Skin - Flushing ( redness of the face lasting a short time ) , hot flashes , sweating , itching , rash , acne and skin reaction to sunlight .
Respiratory - Difficult or rapid breathing , dryness or discomfort of the throat or nose , nosebleed , yawning and sinus disorder , cold - like symptoms , cough , and hiccups .
Special Senses - Visual disturbances , ringing in the ears , ear pain , eye discomfort , swelling or tearing , alterations in hearing and smelling , visual intolerance to light , and bad taste .
Miscellaneous - Allergic reactions including swelling of face , lips , tongue and / or throat which may cause difficulty in breathing and / or swallowing , wheezing , hives , rash , and severe sloughing of the skin .
Also chills , heat sensitivity , swelling , bloating , hangover effect , fever , fainting , dizziness on standing up , warm / cold sensations , dehydration and changes in urination and menstruation .
As with other drugs in this class , there have been very rare reports of heart attack and stroke generally occurring in patients with risk factors for heart and blood vessel disease ( see What should I tell my doctor before and during treatment with MAXALT ? )
.
Tell your doctor about these or any other symptoms .
If the symptoms persist or worsen , seek medical attention promptly .
In addition , tell your doctor if you experience any symptoms that suggest an allergic reaction ( see Miscellaneous above ) after taking MAXALT .
What should I do if I take an overdose ?
If you take more medication than you have been told to take , you should contact your doctor , hospital emergency department , or nearest poison control center immediately .
What is migraine and how does it differ from other headaches ?
Migraine is an intense , throbbing , typically one - sided headache that often includes nausea , vomiting , sensitivity to light , and sensitivity to sound .
According to many migraine sufferers , the pain and symptoms from a migraine headache are more intense than the pain and symptoms of a common headache .
Some people may have visual symptoms before the headache , such as flashing lights or wavy lines , called an aura .
Migraine attacks typically last for hours or , rarely , for more than a day , and they can return frequently .
The severity and frequency of migraine attacks may vary .
Based on your symptoms , your doctor will decide whether you have migraine .
Who gets migraine ?
Migraine headaches tend to occur in members of the same family .
Both men and women get migraine , but it is more common in women .
What may trigger a migraine attack ?
Certain things are thought to trigger migraine attacks in some people .
Some of these triggers are : • certain foods or beverages ( e . g . , cheese , chocolate , citrus fruit , caffeine , alcohol ) • stress • change in a behavior ( e . g . , under / oversleeping ; missing a meal ; change in diet ) • hormonal changes in women ( e . g . , menstruation ) You may be able to prevent migraine attacks or diminish their frequency if you understand what specifically triggers your attacks .
Keeping a headache diary may help you identify and monitor the possible migraine triggers you encounter .
Once the triggers are identified , you and your doctor can modify your treatment and lifestyle appropriately .
How does MAXALT work during a migraine attack ?
Treatment with MAXALT : • Reduces swelling of blood vessels surrounding the brain .
This swelling results in the headache pain of a migraine attack .
• Blocks the release of substances from nerve endings that cause more pain and other symptoms of migraine .
• Interrupts the sending of specific pain signals to your brain .
It is thought that each of these actions contributes to relief of your symptoms by MAXALT .
How should I store MAXALT ?
Keep your medicine in a safe place where children cannot reach it .
It may be harmful to children .
Store your medication away from heat , light , moisture , and at a controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
If your medication has expired , throw it away as instructed .
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment , do not keep any leftover medicine unless your doctor tells you to do so .
Throw away your medicine as instructed .
Be sure that the discarded tablets are out of the reach of children .
If you are storing MAXALT - MLT , do not remove the blister from the outer aluminum pouch until you are ready to take the medication inside .
This leaflet provides a summary of information about MAXALT .
If you have any questions or concerns about either MAXALT or migraine , talk to your doctor .
In addition , talk to your pharmacist or other health care provider .
MAXALT Tablets are manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA By : MSD , Ltd .
Cramlington , Northumberland , NE23 3 JU , UK MAXALT - MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets are manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA By : Catalent UK Swindon , Zydis Ltd .
Swindon , Wiltshire , SN5 8 RU , UK US Patent No . : 5 , 298 , 520 Issued August 2010 9652508 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
