Indications and Usage INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid - altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia .
Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate .
Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease In hypercholesterolemic patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease ( CHD ) , pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated to : reduce the risk of myocardial infarction ( MI ) .
reduce the risk of undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures .
reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality with no increase in death from non - cardiovascular causes .
Hyperlipidemia Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated : as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total cholesterol ( Total - C ) , low - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - C ) , apolipoprotein B ( ApoB ) , and triglyceride ( TG ) levels and to increase high - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL - C ) in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb ) . 1 as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of patients with elevated serum TG levels ( Fredrickson Type IV ) .
for the treatment of patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III ) who do not respond adequately to diet .
as an adjunct to diet and lifestyle modification for treatment of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( HeFH ) in children and adolescent patients ages 8 years and older if after an adequate trial of diet the following findings are present : a . LDL - C remains ≥ 190 mg / dL or b . LDL - C remains ≥ 160 mg / dL and : there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the patient .
Limitations of Use Pravastatin sodium has not been studied in conditions where the major lipoprotein abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons ( Fredrickson Types I and V ) .
Dosage and administration General Dosing Information The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol - lowering diet before receiving pravastatin sodium tablets and should continue on this diet during treatment with pravastatin sodium tablets [ see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy ] .
Adult Patients The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily .
If a daily dose of 40 mg does not achieve desired cholesterol levels , 80 mg once daily is recommended .
In patients with significant renal impairment , a starting dose of 10 mg daily is recommended .
Pravastatin sodium tablets can be administered orally as a single dose at any time of the day , with or without food .
Since the maximal effect of a given dose is seen within 4 weeks , periodic lipid determinations should be performed at this time and dosage adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy and established treatment guidelines .
Pediatric Patients Children ( Ages 8 to 13 Years , Inclusive ) The recommended dose is 20 mg once daily in children 8 to 13 years of age .
Doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population .
Adolescents ( Ages 14 to 18 Years ) The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily in adolescents 14 to 18 years of age .
Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in this patient population .
Children and adolescents treated with pravastatin should be reevaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol - lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL - C [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
Concomitant Lipid - Altering Therapy Pravastatin sodium tablets may be used with bile acid resins .
When administering a bile - acid - binding resin ( e . g . , cholestyramine , colestipol ) and pravastatin , pravastatin sodium tablets should be given either 1 hour or more before or at least 4 hours following the resin .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine In patients taking immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine concomitantly with pravastatin , therapy should begin with 10 mg of pravastatin sodium once - a - day at bedtime and titration to higher doses should be done with caution .
Most patients treated with this combination received a maximum pravastatin sodium dose of 20 mg / day .
In patients taking cyclosporine , therapy should be limited to 20 mg of pravastatin sodium once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Dosage in Patients Taking Clarithromycin In patients taking clarithromycin , therapy should be limited to 40 mg of pravastatin sodium once daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Contraindications Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
Liver Active liver disease or unexplained , persistent elevations of serum transaminases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pregnancy Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid - lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long - term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia .
Cholesterol and other products of cholesterol biosynthesis are essential components for fetal development ( including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes ) .
Since statins decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol , they are contraindicated during pregnancy and in nursing mothers .
PRAVASTATIN SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED TO WOMEN OF CHILDBEARING AGE ONLY WHEN SUCH PATIENTS ARE HIGHLY UNLIKELY TO CONCEIVE AND HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POTENTIAL HAZARDS .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this class of drug , therapy should be discontinued immediately and the patient apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Nursing Mothers A small amount of pravastatin is excreted in human breastmilk .
Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , women who require pravastatin sodium treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Warnings and Precautions Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class .
A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis .
Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects .
Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin - treated patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Myopathy , defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , was rare ( < 0 . 1 % ) in pravastatin clinical trials .
Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias , muscle tenderness or weakness , and / or marked elevation of CPK .
Predisposing factors include advanced age ( > 65 ) , uncontrolled hypothyroidism , and renal impairment .
Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain , tenderness , or weakness , particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever .
Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected .
Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis , e . g . , sepsis ; hypotension ; major surgery ; trauma ; severe metabolic , endocrine , or electrolyte disorders ; or uncontrolled epilepsy .
The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin , cyclosporine , niacin , or fibrates .
However , neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post - transplant patients ( 24 renal and 76 cardiac ) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to 40 mg and cyclosporine .
Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies .
Further , in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin , there were no reports of myopathy .
Also , myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin ( 40 mg / day ) and gemfibrozil ( 1200 mg / day ) , although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo .
There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo , gemfibrozil , or pravastatin monotherapy .
The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy .
The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodium with fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination .
Cases of myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis , have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine , and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Liver Statins , like some other lipid - lowering therapies , have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function .
In 3 long - term ( 4 . 8 to 5 . 9 years ) , placebo - controlled clinical trials ( WOS , LIPID , CARE ) , 19 , 592 subjects ( 19 , 768 randomized ) were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In an analysis of serum transaminase values ( ALT , AST ) , incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups ; a marked abnormality was defined as a post - treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal , or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1 . 5 times the upper limit of normal .
Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency ( ≤ 1 . 2 % ) in both treatment groups .
Overall , clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic , not associated with cholestasis , and did not appear to be related to treatment duration .
In a 320 - patient placebo - controlled clinical trial , subjects with chronic ( > 6 months ) stable liver disease , due primarily to hepatitis C or non - alcoholic fatty liver disease , were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months .
The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT ≥ 2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT ( ≤ the upper limit of normal ) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT ( > the upper limit of normal ) at baseline .
By Week 36 , 12 out of 160 ( 7 . 5 % ) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 ( 12 . 5 % ) subjects receiving placebo .
Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups ( with 95 % confidence ) in the rates of ALT elevation .
It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated .
Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent ( < 6 months ) history of liver disease , have signs that may suggest liver disease ( e . g . , unexplained aminotransferase elevations , jaundice ) , or are heavy users of alcohol .
There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non - fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins , including pravastatin .
If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and / or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin sodium , promptly interrupt therapy .
If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin sodium .
Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and , as such , might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production .
Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post - menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels .
In a study of 21 males , the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced ( p < 0 . 004 ) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin .
However , the percentage of patients showing a ≥ 50 % rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients .
The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients .
The effects , if any , of pravastatin on the pituitary - gonadal axis in pre - menopausal females are unknown .
Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately .
Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs ( e . g . , ketoconazole , spironolactone , cimetidine ) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones .
In a placebo - controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH , of which 106 were treated with pravastatin ( 20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years ) for 2 years , there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters ( ACTH , cortisol , DHEAS , FSH , LH , TSH , estradiol [ girls ] or testosterone [ boys ] ) relative to placebo .
There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes , testicular volume changes , or Tanner score relative to placebo .
Adverse Reactions Pravastatin is generally well tolerated ; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient .
In 4 month - long placebo - controlled trials , 1 . 7 % of pravastatin - treated patients and 1 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy ; this difference was not statistically significant .
For Adverse Clinical Events Please review the manufacturer ' s complete FDA submission at : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = a453647b - 16 de - 4795 - a550 - 4f52eac10a26 Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in ALT , AST values and CPK have been observed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Transient , asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported .
Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy .
Anemia , thrombocytopenia , and leukopenia have been reported with statins .
Pediatric Patients In a 2 year , doubleblind , placebo - controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH ( n = 214 ; age range 8 to 18 . 5 years , 53 % female , 95 % Caucasians , < 1 % Blacks , 3 % Asians , 1 % Other ) , the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
Drug interactions For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine , fibrates , niacin ( nicotinic acid ) , or erythromycin , the risk of myopathy increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine .
Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Clarithromycin The risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin .
Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Colchicine The risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis when HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil , concomitant administration of pravastatin sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates , pravastatin sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin ; a reduction in pravastatin sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use in specific populations Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X [ See Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) . ]
Safety in pregnant women has not been established .
Available data in women inadvertently taking pravastatin while pregnant do not suggest any adverse clinical events .
However , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , it is not known whether pravastatin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Pravastatin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus and patients have been informed of the potential hazards .
Rare reports of congenital anomalies have been received following intrauterine exposure to other statins .
In a review2 of approximately 100 prospectively followed pregnancies in women exposed to simvastatin or lovastatin , the incidences of congenital anomalies , spontaneous abortions , and fetal deaths / stillbirths did not exceed what would be expected in the general population .
The number of cases is adequate to exclude a ≥ 3 - to 4 - fold increase in congenital anomalies over the background incidence .
In 89 % of the prospectively followed pregnancies , drug treatment was initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued at some point in the first trimester when pregnancy was identified .
As safety in pregnant women has not been established and there is no apparent benefit to therapy with pravastatin sodium during pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] , treatment should be immediately discontinued as soon as pregnancy is recognized .
Pravastatin sodium should be administered to women of childbearing potential only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive and have been informed of the potential hazards .
Pravastatin was neither embryolethal nor teratogenic in rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg daily or in rabbits at doses of up to 50 mg / kg daily .
These doses resulted in 10 times ( rabbit ) or 120 times ( rat ) the human exposure at 80 mg / day maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 4 , 20 , 100 , 500 , and 1000 mg / kg / day from gestation days 7 through 17 ( organogenesis ) increased mortality of offspring and skeletal anomalies were observed at 100 mg / kg / day systemic exposure , 10 times the human exposure at 80 mg / day MRHD based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 10 , 100 , and 1000 mg / kg / day from gestation day 17 through lactation day 21 ( weaning ) increased mortality of offspring and developmental delays were observed at 100 mg / kg / day systemic exposure , 12 times the human exposure at 80 mg / day MRHD based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Nursing Mothers A small amount of pravastatin is excreted in human breastmilk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , women taking pravastatin sodium should not nurse [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 4 ) ] .
Pravastatin crosses the placenta and is found in fetal tissue at 30 % maternal plasma levels following a single 20 mg / kg dose given to pregnant rats on gestation day 18 .
Similar studies in lactating rats indicate secretion of pravastatin into breastmilk at 0 . 2 to 6 . 5 times higher levels than maternal plasma at exposures equivalent to 2 times human exposure at the MRHD .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of pravastatin sodium in children and adolescents from 8 to 18 years of age have been evaluated in a placebo - controlled study of 2 years duration .
Patients treated with pravastatin had an adverse experience profile generally similar to that of patients treated with placebo with influenza and headache commonly reported in both treatment groups .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 4 ) . ]
Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in this population .
Children and adolescent females of childbearing potential should be counseled on appropriate contraceptive methods while on pravastatin therapy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
For dosing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) . ]
Doubleblind , placebo - controlled pravastatin studies in children less than 8 years of age have not been conducted .
Geriatric Use The beneficial effect of pravastatin in elderly subjects in reducing cardiovascular events and in modifying lipid profiles was similar to that seen in younger subjects .
The adverse event profile in the elderly was similar to that in the overall population .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses to pravastatin between elderly and younger patients .
Mean pravastatin AUCs are slightly ( 25 % to 50 % ) higher in elderly subjects than in healthy young subjects , but mean maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) , time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) , and half - life ( t ½ ) values are similar in both age groups and substantial accumulation of pravastatin would not be expected in the elderly [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Since advanced age ( ≥ 65 years ) is a predisposing factor for myopathy , pravastatin sodium should be prescribed with caution in the elderly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Pravastatin has not been evaluated in patients with rare homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia .
In this group of patients , it has been reported that statins are less effective because the patients lack functional LDL receptors .
Overdosage To date , there has been limited experience with overdosage of pravastatin .
If an overdose occurs , it should be treated symptomatically with laboratory monitoring and supportive measures should be instituted as required .
Description Pravastatin sodium is one of a class of lipid - lowering compounds , the statins , which reduce cholesterol biosynthesis .
These agents are competitive inhibitors of HMG - CoA reductase , the enzyme catalyzing the early rate - limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis , conversion of HMG - CoA to mevalonate .
Pravastatin sodium is designated chemically as 1 - Naphthalene - heptanoic acid , 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8 a - hexahydro - β , δ , 6 - trihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 8 - ( 2 - methyl - 1 - oxobutoxy ) - , monosodium salt , [ 1 S - [ 1α ( βS * , δS * ) , 2α , 6α , 8β ( R * ) , 8aα ] ] - .
Pravastatin sodium , USP is white to yellowish white powder or crystalline powder , hygroscopic in nature .
It is a relatively polar hydrophilic compound with a partition coefficient ( octanol / water ) of 0 . 59 at a pH of 7 .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol .
Soluble in ethanol .
Each pravastatin sodium tablet intended for oral administration contains 10 mg or 20 mg or 40 mg or 80 mg of pravastatin sodium .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyoxyl 35 castor oil and sodium carbonate anhydrous .
Clinical Pharmacology Mechanism of Action Pravastatin is a reversible inhibitor of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of HMG - CoA to mevalonate , an early and rate limiting step in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol .
In addition , pravastatin reduces VLDL and TG and increases HDL - C .
Pharmacokinetics General Absorption Pravastatin sodium is administered orally in the active form .
In studies in man , peak plasma pravastatin concentrations occurred 1 to 1 . 5 hours upon oral administration .
Based on urinary recovery of total radiolabeled drug , the average oral absorption of pravastatin is 34 % and absolute bioavailability is 17 % .
While the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract reduces systemic bioavailability , the lipid - lowering effects of the drug are similar whether taken with or 1 hour prior to meals .
Pravastatin plasma concentrations , including area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) , Cmax , and steady - state minimum ( Cmin ) , are directly proportional to administered dose .
Systemic bioavailability of pravastatin administered following a bedtime dose was decreased 60 % compared to that following an AM dose .
Despite this decrease in systemic bioavailability , the efficacy of pravastatin administered once daily in the evening , although not statistically significant , was marginally more effective than that after a morning dose .
The coefficient of variation ( CV ) , based on between - subject variability , was 50 % to 60 % for AUC .
The geometric means of pravastatin Cmax and AUC following a 20 mg dose in the fasted state were 26 . 5 ng / mL and 59 . 8 ng * hr / mL , respectively .
Steady - state AUCs , Cmax , and Cmin plasma concentrations showed no evidence of pravastatin accumulation following once or twice daily administration of pravastatin sodium tablets .
Distribution Approximately 50 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism The major biotransformation pathways for pravastatin are : ( a ) isomerization to 6 - epi pravastatin and the 3α - hydroxyisomer of pravastatin ( SQ 31 , 906 ) and ( b ) enzymatic ring hydroxylation to SQ 31 , 945 .
The 3α - hydroxyisomeric metabolite ( SQ 31 , 906 ) has 1 / 10 to 1 / 40 the HMG - CoA reductase inhibitory activity of the parent compound .
Pravastatin undergoes extensive first - pass extraction in the liver ( extraction ratio 0 . 66 ) .
Excretion Approximately 20 % of a radiolabeled oral dose is excreted in urine and 70 % in the feces .
After intravenous administration of radiolabeled pravastatin to normal volunteers , approximately 47 % of total body clearance was via renal excretion and 53 % by non - renal routes ( i . e . , biliary excretion and biotransformation ) .
Following single dose oral administration of 14 C - pravastatin , the radioactive elimination t ½ for pravastatin is 1 . 8 hours in humans .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment A single 20 mg oral dose of pravastatin was administered to 24 patients with varying degrees of renal impairment ( as determined by creatinine clearance ) .
No effect was observed on the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin or its 3α - hydroxy isomeric metabolite ( SQ 31 , 906 ) .
Compared to healthy subjects with normal renal function , patients with severe renal impairment had 69 % and 37 % higher mean AUC and Cmax values , respectively , and a 0 . 61 hour shorter t ½ for the inactive enzymatic ring hydroxylation metabolite ( SQ 31 , 945 ) .
Hepatic Impairment In a study comparing the kinetics of pravastatin in patients with biopsy confirmed cirrhosis ( N = 7 ) and normal subjects ( N = 7 ) , the mean AUC varied 18 - fold in cirrhotic patients and 5 - fold in healthy subjects .
Similarly , the peak pravastatin values varied 47 - fold for cirrhotic patients compared to 6 - fold for healthy subjects .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
Geriatric In a single oral dose study using pravastatin 20 mg , the mean AUC for pravastatin was approximately 27 % greater and the mean cumulative urinary excretion ( CUE ) approximately 19 % lower in elderly men ( 65 to 75 years old ) compared with younger men ( 19 to 31 years old ) .
In a similar study conducted in women , the mean AUC for pravastatin was approximately 46 % higher and the mean CUE approximately 18 % lower in elderly women ( 65 to 78 years old ) compared with younger women ( 18 to 38 years old ) .
In both studies , Cmax , Tmax , and t ½ values were similar in older and younger subjects .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) . ]
Pediatric After 2 weeks of once - daily 20 mg oral pravastatin administration , the geometric means of AUC were 80 . 7 ( CV 44 % ) and 44 . 8 ( CV 89 % ) ng * hr / mL for children ( 8 to 11 years , N = 14 ) and adolescents ( 12 to 16 years , N = 10 ) , respectively .
The corresponding values for Cmax were 42 . 4 ( CV 54 % ) and 18 . 6 ng / mL ( CV 100 % ) for children and adolescents , respectively .
No conclusion can be made based on these findings due to the small number of samples and large variability .
[ See Use in Specific Populations . ]
For complete Drug - Drug Interactions information and complete drug information please visit the manufacturer ' s FDA submission at : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = a453647b - 16 de - 4795 - a550 - 4f52eac10a26 Patient Medication Information Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain , tenderness or weakness , particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
It is recommended that liver enzyme tests be performed before the initiation of pravastatin sodium , and thereafter when clinically indicated .
All patients treated with pravastatin sodium should be advised to promptly report any symptoms that may indicate liver injury , including fatigue , anorexia , right upper abdominal discomfort , dark urine , or jaundice [ see Warnings and Precautions Label NDC : 51655 - 072 - 52 MFG : 68382 - 072 - 05 Pravastatin Sodium 40 MG 30 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains : pravastatin sodium , USP .... 40 mg Dosage : See prescriber ' s instructions Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , light - resistant container .
Protect from moisture .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Cadila Healthcare , Ahmedabad , India Dist .
by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennignton , NJ 08534 Lot # Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
