1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ELCYS is indicated for use as an additive to amino acid solutions to meet the nutritional requirements of newborn infants requiring total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) and of adult and pediatric patients with severe liver disease who may have impaired enzymatic processes and require TPN .
It can also be added to amino acid solutions to provide a more complete profile of amino acids for protein synthesis .
ELCYS is a sulfur - containing amino acid indicated to meet the nutritional requirements of newborn infants requiring total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) ; and of adult and pediatric patients with severe liver disease who may have impaired enzymatic processes and require TPN .
It can also be added to amino acid solutions to provide a more complete profile of amino acids for protein synthesis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • ELCYS is for admixing use only .
Not for direct intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , instructions for use , dosing considerations , including the recommended dosage in pediatric patients and adults .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Information ELCYS is for admixing use only .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , ELCYS must be diluted and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition ( PN ) solutions .
The resulting solution is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
The choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • • ELCYS is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , ELCYS must be diluted and used as anadmixture in PN solutions .
• • ELCYS is to be prepared only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients .
• • ELCYS is for addition to amino acid solutions prior to further admixing with dextrose injection using a PN container .
• • Use a dedicated line for PN solutions .
• • Intravenous lipid emulsions can be infused concurrently into the same vein as ELCYS containing amino acid and dextrose solutions by a Y - connector located near the infusion site ; flow rates of each solution should be controlled separately by infusion pumps .
• • For administration without lipid emulsion , use a 0 . 22 micron in - line filter .
• • To prevent air embolism , use a non - vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set , avoid multiple connections , do not connect flexible containers in series , fully evacuate residual gas in the container prior to administration , do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates , and if administration is controlled by a pumping device , turn off pump before the container runs dry .
• • If infused with lipid emulsion , do not use administration sets and lines that contain di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) .
Administration sets that contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components have DEHP as a plasticizer .
• • Visually inspect the diluted PN solution containing ELCYS for particulate matter before admixing , after admixing , and prior to administration .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
A slight yellow color does not alter the quality and efficacy of this product .
2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition ( PN ) Container • • Remove ELCYS vial from the carton and inspect for particulate matter .
• • Transfer the required amount of ELCYS to an amino acid solution using strict aseptic techniques to avoid microbial contamination .
• • The amino acid solution containing ELCYS can then be used to prepare admixtures in the PN container using strict aseptic techniques .
• • Amino acids solution containing ELCYS may be mixed with dextrose injection .
The following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH related problems : • • Transfer dextrose injection to the parental nutrition pooling container • • Transfer phosphate salt • • Transfer ELCYS - containing amino acid solution • • Transfer electrolytes • • Transfer trace elements • • Use gentle agitation during admixing to minimize localized concentration effects ; shake containers gently after each addition .
• • For automated compounding , refer to Instructions for Use of the applicable compounder .
• • Because additives may be incompatible , evaluate all additions to the PN container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Questions about compatibility may be directed to Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC .
If it is deemed advisable to introduce additives to the PN container , use aseptic technique .
• • Inspect the final PN solution containing ELCYS to ensure that precipitates have not formed during mixing or addition on additives .
Discard if any precipitates are observed .
Stability and Storage • • For single use only .
Discard used container of ELCYS .
• • Use of ELCYS for admixing should be limited to up to 4 hours at room temperature ( 25ºC / 77ºF ) after the container closure has been penetrated .
Discard any remaining drug .
• • Use PN solution containing ELCYS promptly after mixing .
Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration and limited to a brief period of time , no longer than 24 hours .
After removal from refrigeration , use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours .
Discard any remaining admixture .
• • Protect PN solution from light .
2 . 4 Dosing Considerations • • The dosage of the final PN solution containing ELCYS must be based on the concentrations of all components in the solution and the recommended nutritional requirements [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Consult the prescribing information of all added components to determine the recommended nutritional requirements for dextrose and lipid emulsion , as applicable .
• • The dosage of ELCYS should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition ( ability to adequately metabolize amino acids ) , body weight and nutritional / fluid requirements , as well as additional energy given orally / enterally to the patient .
Prior to initiating parenteral nutrition , the following patient information should be reviewed : review of all medications , gastrointestinal function and laboratory data ( such as electrolytes ( including magnesium , calcium , and phosphorus ) , glucose , urea / creatinine , liver panel , complete blood count and triglyceride level ( if adding lipid emulsion ) .
• • Prior to administration of PN solution containing ELCYS , correct severe fluid , electrolyte and acid - base disorders .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients and Adults The recommended dosage and volume of ELCYS is shown in Table 1 and is based upon the recommended daily protein ( amino acids ) requirement .
For pediatric patients from birth to less than 12 years of age , the recommended dosage of ELCYS is 22 mg / gram of amino acids .
For adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the recommended dosage of ELCYS is 7 mg / gram of amino acids .
Table 1 .
Recommended Daily Dosage of ELCYS in Pediatric Patients and Adults • Age • Recommended Proteina Requirement • ( g AA / kg / day ) 1 • Recommended Dosage • ( mg ELCYS / g AA ) • Recommended Volume • ( mL ELCYS / g AA ) Preterm and term infants less than 1 month of age • 3 to 4 • 22 • 0 . 44 Pediatric patients 1 month to less than 1 year of age • 2 to 3 • 22 • 0 . 44 Pediatric patients 1 year to 11 years of age • 1 to 2 • 22 • 0 . 44 Pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age • 0 . 8 to 1 . 5 • 7 • 0 . 14 Adults : Stable Patients • 0 . 8 to 1 • 7 • 0 . 14 Adults : Critically Ill Patientsb • 1 . 5 to 2 • 7 • 0 . 14 AA = Amino Acid a Protein is provided as amino acids ( AA ) .
b Includes patients requiring more than 2 to 3 days in the intensive care unit with organ failure , sepsis or postoperative major surgery .
Do not use in patients with conditions that are contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] ELCYS contains 50 mg / mL of cysteine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 34 . 5 mg / mL of cysteine ) .
Therefore , the ELCYS dosages in Table 1 provide : • • 15 mg cysteine / gram of amino acids for pediatric patients less than 12 years of age • • 5 mg cysteine / gram of amino acids for adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 500 mg / 10 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) cysteine hydrochloride , USP as a clear , colorless , sterile solution in a 10 mL single - dose vial .
Injection : 500 mg / 10 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) cysteine hydrochloride , USP in a 10 mL single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ELCYS is contraindicated in : • • Patients with known hypersensitivity to one or more amino acids .
• • Patients with inborn errors of amino acid metabolism due to risk of severe metabolic or neurologic complications .
• • Patients with pulmonary edema or acidosis due to low cardiac output .
• • Hypersensitivity to one or more amino acids ( 4 ) • • Inborn errors of amino acid metabolism ( 4 ) • • Pulmonary edema or acidosis due to low cardiac output ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates : If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm / L or more must be infused through a central catheter .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • • Increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) : Monitor laboratory parameters and discontinue if exceeds normal postprandial limits and continues to increase .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Acid - Base Imbalance : Monitor laboratory parameters and supplement with electrolytes as needed .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hepatobiliary Disorders : Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia levels .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Hyperammonemia : Neurocognitive delay possible in infants ; monitor blood ammonia levels .
( 5 . 6 , 8 . 4 ) • • Aluminium Toxicity : Increased risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 4 ) • • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Monitor fluid and electrolytes , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , kidney and liver function , blood count and coagulation parameters throughout treatment .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates Pulmonary vascular precipitates causing pulmonary vascular emboli and pulmonary distress have been reported in patients receiving PN .
In some fatal cases , pulmonary embolism occurred as a result of calcium phosphate precipitates .
Precipitation following passage through an in - line filter and suspected in vivo precipitate formation has also been reported .
If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the PN infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
In addition to inspection of the solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] , the infusion set and catheter should also periodically be checked for precipitates .
5 . 2 Vein Damage and Thrombosis ELCYS must be diluted and used as an admixture in PN solutions .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Solutions with an osmolarity of 900 mOsm / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient injections into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 3 Increased Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) Intravenous infusion of amino acids may induce a rise in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , especially in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function .
Appropriate laboratory tests should be performed periodically and infusion discontinued if BUN levels exceed normal postprandial limits and continue to rise .
It should be noted that a modest rise in BUN normally occurs as a result of increased protein intake .
Administration of amino acid solutions in the presence of impaired renal function may augment an increasing BUN , as does any protein dietary component .
5 . 4 Acid - Base Imbalance Administration of ELCYS may result in metabolic acidosis in preterm infants .
Administration of amino acid solutions to a patient with hepatic impairment may result in serum amino acid imbalances , metabolic alkalosis , prerenal azotemia , hyperammonemia , stupor and coma .
Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring of acid - base balance during parenteral nutrition therapy .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements .
5 . 5 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive PN , including cholecystitis , cholelithiasis , cholestasis , hepatic steatosis , fibrosis and cirrhosis , possibly leading to hepatic failure .
The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients .
Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia levels .
Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify possible causative and contributory factors , and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions .
5 . 6 Hyperammonemia Hyperammonemia is of special significance in infants , as it can result in neurocognitive delays .
Therefore , it is essential that blood ammonia levels be measured frequently in infants .
Instances of asymptomatic hyperammonemia have been reported in patients without overt liver dysfunction .
The mechanisms of this reaction are not clearly defined but may involve genetic defects and immature or subclinically impaired liver function [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Aluminum Toxicity ELCYS contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with renal impairment .
Preterm infants are particularly at risk for aluminum toxicity because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which also contain aluminum .
Patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants , who receive greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day of parenteral aluminum can accumulate aluminum to levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Exposure to aluminum from ELCYS is not more than 0 . 21 mcg / kg / day when preterm and term infants less than 1 month of age are administered the recommended maximum dosage of ELCYS ( 15 mg cysteine / g of amino acids and 4 g of amino acids / kg / day ) [ see Table 1 , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
When prescribing ELCYS for use in PN containing other small volume parenteral products , the total daily patient exposure to aluminum from the admixture should be considered and maintained at no more than 5 mcg / kg / day [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Monitor fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters throughout treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information : • • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Increased BUN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Acid - base imbalance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hepatobiliary disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hyperammonemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Adverse reactions with the use of cysteine hydrochloride injection were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Local infusion site reactions , including a warm sensation , erythema , phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site • • Generalized flushing , fever and nausea Most common adverse reactions are local reactions ( warm sensation , erythema , phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site ) , generalized flushing , fever and nausea ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Appropriate administration of ELCYS is not expected to cause major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with cysteine hydrochloride .
The estimated background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defect and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Data available on the effects of cysteine hydrochloride on infants , either directly or through breastmilk , do not suggest a significant risk of adverse events from exposure .
Although there are no data on the presence of cysteine hydrochloride in human or animal milk or the effects on milk production , appropriate administration of ELCYS is not expected to cause harm to a breastfed infant .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ELCYS and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ELCYS or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use ELCYS is approved for use in pediatric patients , from birth to 17 years of age , for use as an additive to amino acid solutions to meet the nutritional requirements of newborn infants , including preterm infants , requiring total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) and pediatric patients with severe liver disease who may have impaired enzymatic processes and require TPN .
The safety profile for ELCYS use in pediatric patients includes risks of acid - base imbalance and hyperammonemia .
Acid - base imbalance , including metabolic acidosis , may occur with ELCYS administration in preterm infants .
Frequent clinical and laboratory assessments are necessary to monitor and manage fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during parenteral nutrition therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hyperammonemia is of special significance in infants ( birth to two years of age ) .
This reaction appears to be related to a deficiency of the urea cycle amino acids of genetic or product origin .
It is essential that blood ammonia be measured frequently in infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Because of immature renal function , preterm infants receiving prolonged PN treatment with ELCYS may be at higher risk of aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies with ELCYS have not been performed to determine whether patients aged 65 and over respond differently from younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Monitor patients with impaired renal function receiving PN solutions containing the recommended dosage of ELCYS with frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory tests to assess renal function , including serum electrolytes and fluid balance [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Monitor patients with impaired liver function receiving PN solutions containing the recommended dosage of ELCYS with frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory tests to assess liver function , such as bilirubin and liver function parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of over hydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ELCYS ( cysteine hydrochloride injection ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for intravenous use .
Each 10 mL of ELCYS contains 500 mg of cysteine hydrochloride , USP ( equivalent to 345 mg of cysteine ) in water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid are used as needed to adjust the pH . The pH range is 1 . 0 to 2 . 5 .
The active ingredient is cysteine hydrochloride .
Cysteine is a sulfur - containing amino acid .
The chemical name of cysteine hydrochloride is L - cysteine hydrochloride monohydrate and is chemically designated as C3H7NO2S • HCI • H2O having a molecular weight of 175 . 63 .
Cysteine hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder soluble in water .
Cysteine aqueous solution is prone to oxidation when exposed to air , and when mixed with amino acids solutions , cysteine may convert to insoluble cystine which leads to precipitation over time .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ELCYS contains no more than 120 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Endogenous cysteine is synthesized from methionine by the enzyme , cystathionase , via the trans - sulfuration pathway , and serves as a precursor substrate for both glutathione and taurine .
ELCYS provides cysteine to the systemic circulation of patients who require PN and cannot synthesize adequate quantities of cysteine due to insufficient or deficient cystathionase activity .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Ayers P . et al .
A . S . P . E . N . Parenteral Nutrition Handbook , 2 nd ed .
2014 pg .
123 and 124 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ELCYS is supplied as follows : 500 mg / 10 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) of cysteine hydrochloride , USP is a clear , colorless , sterile and nonpyrogenic solution in 10 mL single - dose vials ( 51754 - 1007 - 1 ) , packaged as 10 per carton ( NDC 51754 - 1007 - 3 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
If accidentally frozen , discard the vial .
For storage of admixed solution see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers , or home healthcare providers of the following risks of ELCYS : • • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Increased BUN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Acid base imbalance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hepatobiliary disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hyperammonemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Monitoring and laboratory tests [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Manufactured and Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51754 - 1007 - 1 ELCYS ( Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection ) , USP 500 mg / 10 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) Must Be Diluted For Intravenous Use Only After Dilution 10 mL Single Dose Sterile Vial - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 51754 - 1007 - 3 Rx Only ELCYS ( Cysteine Hydrochloride Injection ) , USP 500 mg / 10 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) Must Be Diluted .
For Intravenous Use Only .
10 x 10 mL Single Dose SterileVials - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ]
