To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN ( amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ) and other antibacterial drugs , AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION AUGMENTIN is an oral antibacterial combination consisting of the semisynthetic antibiotic amoxicillin and the β - lactamase inhibitor , clavulanate potassium ( the potassium salt of clavulanic acid ) .
Amoxicillin is an analog of ampicillin , derived from the basic penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
The amoxicillin molecular formula is C16H19N3O5S • 3H2O , and the molecular weight is 419 . 46 .
Chemically , amoxicillin is ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - ( - ) - 2 - Amino - 2 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid trihydrate and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clavulanic acid is produced by the fermentation of Streptomyces clavuligerus .
It is a β - lactam structurally related to the penicillins and possesses the ability to inactivate a wide variety of β - lactamases by blocking the active sites of these enzymes .
Clavulanic acid is particularly active against the clinically important plasmid - mediated β - lactamases frequently responsible for transferred drug resistance to penicillins and cephalosporins .
The clavulanate potassium molecular formula is C8H8KNO5 , and the molecular weight is 237 . 25 .
Chemically , clavulanate potassium is potassium ( Z ) - ( 2 R , 5 R ) - 3 - ( 2 - hydroxyethylidene ) - 7 - oxo - 4 - oxa - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] - heptane - 2 - carboxylate , and may be represented structurally as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive IngredientsColloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
Each tablet of AUGMENTIN contains 0 . 63 mEq potassium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium are well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration of AUGMENTIN .
Dosing in the fasted or fed state has minimal effect on the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin .
While AUGMENTIN can be given without regard to meals , absorption of clavulanate potassium when taken with food is greater relative to the fasted state .
In 1 study , the relative bioavailability of clavulanate was reduced when AUGMENTIN was dosed at 30 and 150 minutes after the start of a high - fat breakfast .
The safety and efficacy of AUGMENTIN have been established in clinical trials where AUGMENTIN was taken without regard to meals .
Meana amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium pharmacokinetic parameters are shown in the table below : Doseb and regimen AUC0 - 24 ( mcg • hr / mL ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) clavulanate potassium ( ± S . D . ) amoxicillin ( ± S . D . ) clavulanate potassium ( ± S . D . ) 250 / 125 mg q8h 26 . 7 ± 4 . 56 12 . 6 ± 3 . 25 3 . 3 ± 1 . 12 1 . 5 ± 0 . 70 500 / 125 mg q12h 33 . 4 ± 6 . 76 8 . 6 ± 1 . 95 6 . 5 ± 1 . 41 1 . 8 ± 0 . 61 500 / 125 mg q8h 53 . 4 ± 8 . 87 15 . 7 ± 3 . 86 7 . 2 ± 2 . 26 2 . 4 ± 0 . 83 875 / 125 mg q12h 53 . 5 ± 12 . 31 10 . 2 ± 3 . 04 11 . 6 ± 2 . 78 2 . 2 ± 0 . 99 a Mean values of 14 normal volunteers ( n = 15 for clavulanate potassium in the low - dose regimens ) .
Peak concentrations occurred approximately 1 . 5 hours after the dose .
b Administered at the start of a light meal .
Amoxicillin serum concentrations achieved with AUGMENTIN are similar to those produced by the oral administration of equivalent doses of amoxicillin alone .
The half - life of amoxicillin after the oral administration of AUGMENTIN is 1 . 3 hours and that of clavulanic acid is 1 . 0 hour .
Approximately 50 % to 70 % of the amoxicillin and approximately 25 % to 40 % of the clavulanic acid are excreted unchanged in urine during the first 6 hours after administration of a single 250 - mg or 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN .
Concurrent administration of probenecid delays amoxicillin excretion but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid .
Neither component in AUGMENTIN is highly protein - bound ; clavulanic acid has been found to be approximately 25 % bound to human serum and amoxicillin approximately 18 % bound .
Amoxicillin diffuses readily into most body tissues and fluids with the exception of the brain and spinal fluid .
The results of experiments involving the administration of clavulanic acid to animals suggest that this compound , like amoxicillin , is well distributed in body tissues .
MicrobiologyAmoxicillin is a semisynthetic antibiotic with a broad spectrum of bactericidal activity against many gram - positive and gram - negative microorganisms .
Amoxicillin is , however , susceptible to degradation by β - lactamases , and therefore , the spectrum of activity does not include organisms which produce these enzymes .
Clavulanic acid is a β - lactam , structurally related to the penicillins , which possesses the ability to inactivate a wide range of β - lactamase enzymes commonly found in microorganisms resistant to penicillins and cephalosporins .
In particular , it has good activity against the clinically important plasmid - mediated β - lactamases frequently responsible for transferred drug resistance .
The formulation of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid in AUGMENTIN protects amoxicillin from degradation by β - lactamase enzymes and effectively extends the antibiotic spectrum of amoxicillin to include many bacteria normally resistant to amoxicillin and other β - lactam antibiotics .
Thus , AUGMENTIN possesses the properties of a broad - spectrum antibiotic and a β - lactamase inhibitor .
Amoxicillin / clavulanic acid has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in INDICATIONS AND USAGE .
Gram - Positive AerobesStaphylococcus aureus ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) c c Staphylococci which are resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
Gram - Negative AerobesEnterobacter species ( Although most strains of Enterobacter species are resistant in vitro , clinical efficacy has been demonstrated with AUGMENTIN in urinary tract infections caused by these organisms . )
Escherichia coli ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) Haemophilus influenzae ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) Klebsiella species ( All known strains are β - lactamase − producing . )
Moraxella catarrhalis ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Amoxicillin / clavulanic acid exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of 2 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae d ; MICs of 0 . 06 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae ; MICs of 4 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of staphylococci and anaerobic bacteria ; and MICs of 8 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of other listed organisms .
However , with the exception of organisms shown to respond to amoxicillin alone , the safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin / clavulanic acid in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
d Because amoxicillin has greater in vitro activity against S . pneumoniae than does ampicillin or penicillin , the majority of S . pneumoniae strains with intermediate susceptibility to ampicillin or penicillin are fully susceptible to amoxicillin .
Gram - Positive AerobesEnterococcus faecalise Staphylococcus epidermidis ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) Staphylococcus saprophyticus ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) Streptococcus pneumoniaee f Streptococcus pyogenese f viridans group Streptococcuse f Gram - Negative AerobesEikenella corrodens ( β - lactamase and non − β - lactamase − producing ) Neisseria gonorrhoeaee ( β - lactamase and non – β - lactamase – producing ) Proteus mirabilise ( β - lactamase and non – β - lactamase – producing ) Anaerobic BacteriaBacteroides species , including Bacteroides fragilis ( β - lactamase and non – β - lactamase – producing ) Fusobacterium species ( β - lactamase and non – β - lactamase – producing ) Peptostreptococcus speciesf e Adequate and well - controlled clinical trials have established the effectiveness of amoxicillin alone in treating certain clinical infections due to these organisms .
f These are non – β - lactamase − producing organisms , and therefore , are susceptible to amoxicillin alone .
Susceptibility TestingDilution TechniquesQuantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial MICs .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method1 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium powder .
The recommended dilution pattern utilizes a constant amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ratio of 2 to 1 in all tubes with varying amounts of amoxicillin .
MICs are expressed in terms of the amoxicillin concentration in the presence of clavulanic acid at a constant 2 parts amoxicillin to 1 part clavulanic acid .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : RECOMMENDED RANGES FOR AMOXICILLIN / CLAVULANIC ACID SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING For Gram - Negative Enteric Aerobes : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 / 4 Susceptible ( S ) 16 / 8 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 32 / 16 Resistant ( R ) For Staphylococcusg and Haemophilus species : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 4 / 2 Susceptible ( S ) ≥ 8 / 4 Resistant ( R ) g Staphylococci which are susceptible to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid but resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered as resistant .
For S . pneumoniae from non - meningitis sources : Isolates should be tested using amoxicillin / clavulanic acid and the following criteria should be used : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 2 / 1 Susceptible ( S ) 4 / 2 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 8 / 4 Resistant ( R ) NOTE : These interpretive criteria are based on the recommended doses for respiratory tract infections .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentration usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone , which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC Range ( mcg / mL ) h Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 2 to 8 Escherichia coli ATCC 35218 4 to 16 Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212 0 . 25 to 1 . 0 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 2 to 16 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 12 to 0 . 5 Streptococcus pneumoniae ATCC 49619 0 . 03 to 0 . 12 h Expressed as concentration of amoxicillin in the presence of clavulanic acid at a constant 2 parts amoxicillin to 1 part clavulanic acid .
Diffusion TechniquesQuantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure2 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 mcg of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 20 mcg amoxicillin plus 10 mcg clavulanate potassium ) to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 - mcg amoxicillin / clavulanate acid ( 20 mcg amoxicillin plus 10 mcg clavulanate potassium ) disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : RECOMMENDED RANGES FOR AMOXICILLIN / CLAVULANIC ACID SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING For Staphylococcusi species and H . influenzaej : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 20 Susceptible ( S ) ≤ 19 Resistant ( R ) For Other Organisms Except S . pneumoniaek and N . gonorrhoeael : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 Susceptible ( S ) 14 to 17 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 13 Resistant ( R ) i Staphylococci which are resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered as resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
j A broth microdilution method should be used for testing H . influenzae .
Beta - lactamase − negative , ampicillin - resistant strains must be considered resistant to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
k Susceptibility of S . pneumoniae should be determined using a 1 - mcg oxacillin disk .
Isolates with oxacillin zone sizes of ≥ 2 0 mm are susceptible to amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
An amoxicillin / clavulanic acid MIC should be determined on isolates of S . pneumoniae with oxacillin zone sizes of ≤ 1 9 mm .
l A broth microdilution method should be used for testing N . gonorrhoeae and interpreted according to penicillin breakpoints .
Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for amoxicillin / clavulanic acid .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 - mcg amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 20 - mcg amoxicillin plus 10 - mcg clavulanate potassium ) disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 19 to 25 Escherichia coli ATCC 35218 18 to 22 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 28 to 36 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AUGMENTIN is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below : Lower Respiratory Tract Infections − caused by β - lactamase − producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Otitis Media − caused by β - lactamase − producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Sinusitis − caused by β - lactamase − producing strains of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
Skin and Skin Structure Infections − caused by β - lactamase − producing strains of S . aureus , E . coli , and Klebsiella spp .
Urinary Tract Infections − caused by β - lactamase − producing strains of E . coli , Klebsiella spp . , and Enterobacter spp .
While AUGMENTIN is indicated only for the conditions listed above , infections caused by ampicillin - susceptible organisms are also amenable to treatment with AUGMENTIN due to its amoxicillin content ; therefore , mixed infections caused by ampicillin - susceptible organisms and β - lactamase − producing organisms susceptible to AUGMENTIN should not require the addition of another antibiotic .
Because amoxicillin has greater in vitro activity against S . pneumoniae than does ampicillin or penicillin , the majority of S . pneumoniae strains with intermediate susceptibility to ampicillin or penicillin are fully susceptible to amoxicillin and AUGMENTIN .
( See Microbiology . )
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN and other antibacterial drugs , AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Bacteriological studies , to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to AUGMENTIN , should be performed together with any indicated surgical procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS AUGMENTIN is contraindicated in patients with a history of allergic reactions to any penicillin .
It is also contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice / hepatic dysfunction associated with AUGMENTIN .
WARNINGS SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY ( ANAPHYLACTIC ) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY .
THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY AND / OR A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS .
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS .
BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH AUGMENTIN , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS , CEPHALOSPORINS , OR OTHER ALLERGENS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS , AUGMENTIN SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND THE APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED .
SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE .
OXYGEN , INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , INCLUDING INTUBATION , SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including AUGMENTIN , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile .
cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile .
may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
AUGMENTIN should be used with caution in patients with evidence of hepatic dysfunction .
Hepatic toxicity associated with the use of AUGMENTIN is usually reversible .
On rare occasions , deaths have been reported ( less than 1 death reported per estimated 4 million prescriptions worldwide ) .
These have generally been cases associated with serious underlying diseases or concomitant medications .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS : Liver . )
PRECAUTIONS GeneralWhile AUGMENTIN possesses the characteristic low toxicity of the penicillin group of antibiotics , periodic assessment of organ system functions , including renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic function , is advisable during prolonged therapy .
A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive ampicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , ampicillin - class antibiotics should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
The possibility of superinfections with mycotic or bacterial pathogens should be kept in mind during therapy .
If superinfections occur ( usually involving Pseudomonas or Candida ) , the drug should be discontinued and / or appropriate therapy instituted .
Prescribing AUGMENTIN in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug InteractionsProbenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin .
Concurrent use with AUGMENTIN may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin .
Coadministration of probenecid cannot be recommended .
Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time ( increased international normalized ratio [ INR ] ) has been reported rarely in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants .
Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently .
Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation .
The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
There are no data with AUGMENTIN and allopurinol administered concurrently .
In common with other broad - spectrum antibiotics , AUGMENTIN may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsOral administration of AUGMENTIN will result in high urine concentrations of amoxicillin .
High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin and therefore AUGMENTIN , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions ( such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used .
Following administration of ampicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone and estradiol has been noted .
This effect may also occur with amoxicillin and therefore AUGMENTIN .
Information for PatientsPatients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including AUGMENTIN , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When AUGMENTIN is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by AUGMENTIN or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
MutagenesisThe mutagenic potential of AUGMENTIN was investigated in vitro with an Ames test , a human lymphocyte cytogenetic assay , a yeast test and a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , and in vivo with mouse micronucleus tests and a dominant lethal test .
All were negative apart from the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay where weak activity was found at very high , cytotoxic concentrations .
Impairment of FertilityAUGMENTIN at oral doses of up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day ( 5 . 7 times the maximum human dose , 1 , 480 mg / m2 / day , based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance in rats , dosed with a 2 : 1 ratio formulation of amoxicillin : clavulanate .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy ( Category B ) .
Reproduction studies performed in pregnant rats and mice given AUGMENTIN at oral dosages up to 1 , 200 mg / kg / day , equivalent to 7 , 200 and 4 , 080 mg / m2 / day , respectively ( 4 . 9 and 2 . 8 times the maximum human oral dose based on body surface area ) , revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to AUGMENTIN .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and DeliveryOral ampicillin - class antibiotics are generally poorly absorbed during labor .
Studies in guinea pigs have shown that intravenous administration of ampicillin decreased the uterine tone , frequency of contractions , height of contractions , and duration of contractions ; however , it is not known whether the use of AUGMENTIN in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood that forceps delivery or other obstetrical intervention or resuscitation of the newborn will be necessary .
In a single study in women with premature rupture of fetal membranes , it was reported that prophylactic treatment with AUGMENTIN may be associated with an increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis in neonates .
Nursing MothersAmpicillin - class antibiotics are excreted in the milk ; therefore , caution should be exercised when AUGMENTIN is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UsePediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to the adult recommendations ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Pediatric Patients ) .
Safety and effectiveness of AUGMENTIN Tablets in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg have not been established .
( See prescribing information for AUGMENTIN Powder for Oral Suspension and Chewable Tablets . )
Geriatric UseAn analysis of clinical studies of AUGMENTIN was conducted to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently from younger subjects .
Of the 3 , 119 patients in this analysis , 68 % were < 65 years old , 32 % were > 65 years old and 14 % were > 75 years old .
This analysis and other reported clinical experience have not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but a greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS AUGMENTIN is generally well tolerated .
The majority of side effects observed in clinical trials were of a mild and transient nature and less than 3 % of patients discontinued therapy because of drug - related side effects .
The most frequently reported adverse effects were diarrhea / loose stools ( 9 % ) , nausea ( 3 % ) , skin rashes and urticaria ( 3 % ) , vomiting ( 1 % ) and vaginitis ( 1 % ) .
The overall incidence of side effects , and in particular diarrhea , increased with the higher recommended dose .
Other less frequently reported reactions include : Abdominal discomfort , flatulence , and headache .
The following adverse reactions have been reported for ampicillin - class antibiotics : GastrointestinalDiarrhea , nausea , vomiting , indigestion , gastritis , stomatitis , glossitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , mucocutaneous candidiasis , enterocolitis , and hemorrhagic / pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hypersensitivity ReactionsSkin rashes , pruritus , urticaria , angioedema , serum sickness − like reactions ( urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia , and frequently fever ) , erythema multiforme ( rarely Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , hypersensitivity vasculitis , and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis ( including toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported .
These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and , if necessary , systemic corticosteroids .
Whenever such reactions occur , the drug should be discontinued , unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise .
Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions can occur with oral penicillin .
( See WARNINGS . )
LiverA moderate rise in AST ( SGOT ) and / or ALT ( SGPT ) has been noted in patients treated with ampicillin - class antibiotics but the significance of these findings is unknown .
Hepatic dysfunction , including hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice , [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] , increases in serum transaminases ( AST and / or ALT ) , serum bilirubin , and / or alkaline phosphatase , has been infrequently reported with AUGMENTIN .
It has been reported more commonly in the elderly , in males , or in patients on prolonged treatment .
The histologic findings on liver biopsy have consisted of predominantly cholestatic , hepatocellular , or mixed cholestatic - hepatocellular changes .
The onset of signs / symptoms of hepatic dysfunction may occur during or several weeks after therapy has been discontinued .
The hepatic dysfunction , which may be severe , is usually reversible .
On rare occasions , deaths have been reported ( less than 1 death reported per estimated 4 million prescriptions worldwide ) .
These have generally been cases associated with serious underlying diseases or concomitant medications .
RenalInterstitial nephritis and hematuria have been reported rarely .
Crystalluria has also been reported ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Hemic and Lymphatic SystemsAnemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with penicillins .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
A slight thrombocytosis was noted in less than 1 % of the patients treated with AUGMENTIN .
There have been reports of increased prothrombin time in patients receiving AUGMENTIN and anticoagulant therapy concomitantly .
Central Nervous SystemAgitation , anxiety , behavioral changes , confusion , convulsions , dizziness , insomnia , and reversible hyperactivity have been reported rarely .
MiscellaneousTooth discoloration ( brown , yellow , or gray staining ) has been rarely reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
OVERDOSAGE Following overdosage , patients have experienced primarily gastrointestinal symptoms including stomach and abdominal pain , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Rash , hyperactivity , or drowsiness have also been observed in a small number of patients .
In the case of overdosage , discontinue AUGMENTIN , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
If the overdosage is very recent and there is no contraindication , an attempt at emesis or other means of removal of drug from the stomach may be performed .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms and do not require gastric emptying . 3 Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in a small number of patients after overdosage with amoxicillin .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of both amoxicillin and clavulanate .
Both amoxicillin and clavulanate are removed from the circulation by hemodialysis .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for recommended dosing for patients with impaired renal function . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Since both the 250 - mg and 500 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN contain the same amount of clavulanic acid ( 125 mg , as the potassium salt ) , two 250 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN are not equivalent to one 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN ; therefore , two 250 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN should not be substituted for one 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN .
DosageAdultsThe usual adult dose is one 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 250 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours .
For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract , the dose should be one 875 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 500 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours .
Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe .
Severely impaired patients with a glomerular filtration rate of < 30 mL / min .
should not receive the 875 - mg tablet .
Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL / min .
should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection .
Patients with a less than 10 mL / min .
glomerular filtration rate should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
They should receive an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis .
Hepatically impaired patients should be dosed with caution and hepatic function monitored at regular intervals .
( See WARNINGS . )
Pediatric PatientsPediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to the adult recommendations .
Due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN ( 250 / 125 ) versus the 250 - mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN ( 250 / 62 . 5 ) , the 250 - mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should not be used until the pediatric patient weighs at least 40 kg or more .
AdministrationAUGMENTIN may be taken without regard to meals ; however , absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when AUGMENTIN is administered at the start of a meal .
To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance , AUGMENTIN should be taken at the start of a meal .
HOW SUPPLIED AUGMENTIN 250 - mg TabletsEach white oval filmcoated tablet , debossed with AUGMENTIN on 1 side and 250 / 125 on the other side , contains 250 mg amoxicillin as the trihydrate and 125 mg clavulanic acid as the potassium salt .
Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 0387 - 1 Store tablets at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Dispense in original container .
CLINICAL STUDIES Data from 2 pivotal studies in 1 , 191 patients treated for either lower respiratory tract infections or complicated urinary tract infections compared a regimen of 875 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours to 500 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN dosed every 8 hours ( 584 and 607 patients , respectively ) .
Comparable efficacy was demonstrated between the every 12 hours and every 8 hours dosing regimens .
There was no significant difference in the percentage of adverse events in each group .
The most frequently reported adverse event was diarrhea ; incidence rates were similar for the 875 - mg every 12 hours and 500 - mg every 8 hours dosing regimens ( 14 . 9 % and 14 . 3 % , respectively ) ; however , there was a statistically significant difference ( P < 0 . 05 ) in rates of severe diarrhea or withdrawals with diarrhea between the regimens : 1 . 0 % for 875 - mg every 12 hours dosing versus 2 . 5 % for the 500 - mg every 8 hours dosing .
In 1 of these pivotal studies , 629 patients with either pyelonephritis or a complicated urinary tract infection ( i . e . , patients with abnormalities of the urinary tract that predispose to relapse of bacteriuria following eradication ) were randomized to receive either 875 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or 500 - mg tablets of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours in the following distribution : 875 mg q12h 500 mg q8h Pyelonephritis 173 patients 188 patients Complicated UTI 135 patients 133 patients Total patients 308 321 The number of bacteriologically evaluable patients was comparable between the 2 dosing regimens .
AUGMENTIN produced comparable bacteriological success rates in patients assessed 2 to 4 days immediately following end of therapy .
The bacteriologic efficacy rates were comparable at 1 of the follow - up visits ( 5 to 9 days post - therapy ) and at a late post - therapy visit ( in the majority of cases , this was 2 to 4 weeks post - therapy ) , as seen in the table below : 875 mg q12h 500 mg q8h 2 to 4 days 81 % , n = 58 80 % , n = 54 5 to 9 days 58 . 5 % , n = 41 51 . 9 % , n = 52 2 to 4 weeks 52 . 5 % , n = 101 54 . 8 % , n = 104 As noted before , though there was no significant difference in the percentage of adverse events in each group , there was a statistically significant difference in rates of severe diarrhea or withdrawals with diarrhea between the regimens .
REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically - Third Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A3 , Vol .
13 , No . 25 .
NCCLS , Villanova , PA , December 1993 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests - Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A5 , Vol .
13 , No . 24 .
NCCLS , Villanova , PA , December 1993 .
• Swanson - Biearman B , Dean BS , Lopez G , Krenzelok EP .
The effects of penicillin and cephalosporin ingestions in children less than six years of age .
Vet Hum Toxicol .
1988 ; 30 : 66 - 67 .
AUGMENTIN is a registered trademark of GlaxoSmithKline .
CLINITEST is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
CLINISTIX is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2009 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
September 2009 AUT : 17 PI Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Augmentin 250 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 875 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
