Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch cream Uses • temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external genital and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • by putting this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Ask a doctor before use if you have • a vaginal discharge • rectal bleeding • diaper rash When using this product consult a doctor before exceeding recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition gets worse • condition persists for more than 7 days • condition clears up and occurs again within a few days .
Do not begin to use any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age : do not use .
consult a doctor For external anal itching : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • store at room temperature • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis , cetearyl alcohol / sodium lauryl sulfate / sodium cetearyl sulfate , chamomile ( anthemis nobilis ) oil , citric acid , corn ( zea mays ) oil , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl palmitate , maltodextrin , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin , petrolatum , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol , vitamin A ( retinyl palmitate ) , vitamin D ( cholecalciferol ) , vitamin E ( tocopheryl acetate ) .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - WALGREENS ( 1 - 800 - 925 - 4733 ) Distributed by : Walgreen Co . 200 Wilmot Rd .
Deerfield , IL 60015 - 4616 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 g Tube Carton Walgreens NDC 03630 - 063 - 06 Compare to Cortizone ∙ 10 ® Plus active ingredient * MAXIMUM STRENGTH HYDROCORTISONE ∙ PLUS 1 % Hydrocortisone Anti - Itch Cream NET WT 1 . 5 OZ ( 45 g ) Anti - Itch Cream with Aloe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
