Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose : Sunscreen Keep out of reach of children .
A broad spectrum UVA / UVB sunscreen to help protect the skin from sunburn .
Sun Defense Spray SPF 15 is enriched with moisturizing açai oil , pomegranate extract and Bio - MapleTM compound to help skin remain hydrated .
Uses ■ Helps prevent sunburn .
■ Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection .
■ Provides high protection against sunburn .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse abundantly with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
If swallowed , seek medical assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Flammable : Keep away from open flame or source of heat .
Do not use while smoking .
Avoid long term storage above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Other information Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
Directions ■ Apply 15 - 30 minutes before sun exposure .
■ Hold bottle 8 - 10 inches from the skin and press pump to spray a fine even mist .
■ Spray liberally and evenly over all exposed areas to ensure complete coverage .
■ Do not spray directly onto face ; spray into hands , then immediately apply to face .
■ Rub into skin on all exposed areas .
■ Reapply every two hours or as needed , after swimming , washing , towel drying , or perspiring heavily .
Inactive ingredients : alcohol denat . , ethyl macadamiate , tocopherol , malic acid , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , PPG - 5 - ceteth - 20 , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , ethylene brassylate , lauryl PCA , tocopheryl acetate , acer saccharum ( maple isolate ) , punica granatum ( pomegranate ) extract , propylene glycol , water , euterpe oleracea ( acai ) oil , retinyl palmitate , magnesium ascorbyl phosphate .
B . KAMINS SUN DEFENSE SPRAY SPF15 150 mL / 5 fl . oz DIN 02312484 image / jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
