Drug Facts Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to Levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
Other information • read the instructions , warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use .
• this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• do not use if carton is open or tear strip is removed or blister seal is broken or missing • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , talc Questions or comments Call 1 - 800 - 346 - 6854 , or Visit our Web site at www . ReactContraceptive . com React ™ Levonorgestrel Tablet 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Dose What You Need to Know What is React ™ ?
React ™ is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What React ™ is not .
React ™ will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
React ™ will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use React ™ ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use React ™ within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
React ™ is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method When not to use React ™ .
React ™ should not be used : • as a regular birth control method , because it ' s not as effective as regular birth control .
• if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in React ™ .
How does React ™ work ?
React ™ is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
React ™ contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that React ™ may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from React ™ ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take React ™ , the better it works .
How effective is React ™ ?
If React ™ is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know React ™ worked ?
You will know React ™ has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• when used as directed , React ™ is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about React ™ ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 346 - 6854 or visit our website at www . ReactContraceptive . com .
Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store at room temperature 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , talc If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 , USA Manufactured by Lotus Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Nantou Plant No . 30 Chenggong 1 st Rd . , Sinsing Village , Nantou City , Nantou County 54066 , Taiwan 20050 Rev . 05 / 2016 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Tablet Blister Pack Carton Over the Counter NDC - 64679 - 050 - 02 React ™ levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg tablet emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
* Compare to Plan B One Step ® Active ingredient Actual Size One Tablet .
One Dose .
Contains 1 Tablet 1 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
