Active ingredients Benalkonium chloride ( 0 . 115 % ) Purpose Antimicrobial Uses • For hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria on the skin .
• Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Do Not Use Do not use over large areas of the body or if you are allergic to any of these ingredients .
When using this product Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if If irritation or redness develops and persists for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions : Take wipe and rub thoroughly over all surfaces of both hands .
Rub hands together briskly to dry .
Dispose of wipe .
Do not flush .
Lift tab at front of lid to open .
Pull up corner of center sheet and thread through dispenser slit in the lid .
Pull out exposed wipe at 45º angle and snap off .
The next wipe is ready for dispensing .
Close lid to retain moisture .
Dispose of used wipe in trash .
Do not flush .
Inactive ingredients Water , Behentrimonium Chloride , Dihydroxypropyl Peg - 5 Linoleammonium Chloride , Glycereth - 2 Cocoate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Fragrance Other Information * Kills 99 . 9 % of germs that may cause illness , including E . Coli and MRSA in just 15 seconds .
RediWipes ™ Antibacterial Wipes are made with a soothing pH balanced formula that kills germs and leaves your skin feeling clean and soft .
They are a smart solution for fast cleanups anywhere soap and water are not available .
Use them at school , work or sporting events .
Can also be used when cleaning up the car or boat .
RediWipes logo ™ , Free Of logo ™ , and Wind Energy / Artesian Glacial Aquifer Water logo ™ are trademarks of U . S . Nonwovens Corp .
All rights reserved .
** This product is not manufactured or distributed by Edgewell Personal Care , owner of the registered trademark , Wet Ones ® .
DISTRIBUTED BY : U . S . NONWOVENS CORP . 100 EMJAY BLVD . , BRENTWOOD , NY 11717 Principal Display Panel SANITIZING REDI WIPESTM Compare to Wet Ones ® ** ANTIBACTERIAL HAND WIPES FRESH SCENT ALCOHOL FREE KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS * 50 Soft Wipes 7 IN x 6 IN ( 17 . 78 cm x 15 . 24 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
