Urea 40 % Rx Only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Description Each gram contains 400 mg of urea in a vehicle consisting of : carbopol 940 , cetyl alcohol , glycerin monostearate , mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , trolamine 99 % , white petrolatum , xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Urea gently dissolves the intracellular matrix which results in loosening of the horny layer of the skin and shedding of scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
Indications and Usage For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eshar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
Contraindications Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
Warnings For topical use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Precautions FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
PREGNANACY Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , Urea 40 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Urea 40 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the medication .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 877 - 255 - 6999 .
Dosage and Administration Apply Urea 40 % to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by your physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each person ' s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluation of the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical information provided herein .
How Supplied Urea 40 % Cream 1 oz .
( 28 . 35 g ) : NDC 71399 - 8456 - 1 ; Urea 40 % Cream 3 oz .
( 85 g ) : NDC NDC 71399 - 8456 - 3 ; Urea 40 % Cream 7 oz .
( 198 . 45 g ) : NDC NDC 71399 - 8456 - 7 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Manufactured for : Akron Pharma Inc . , Fairfield , NJ - 07004 www . akronpharma . com Manufactured In USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
