1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE E - Z - PAQUE is indicated for use in single contrast radiographic examinations of the esophagus , stomach , duodenum and small bowel to visualize the gastrointestinal tract ( GI ) in adult and pediatric patients .
E - Z - PAQUE is a radiographic contrast agent indicated for use in single contrast radiographic examinations of the esophagus , stomach , duodenum and small bowel to visualize the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract in adult and pediatric patients ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults : Recommended reconstituted oral dose is between 150 – 750 mL ( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients : adjust reconstituted dose based on relative GI volume ( 2 . 1 ) • Must reconstitute supplied powder with water prior to use .
See Full Prescribing Information for reconstitution instructions ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The optimal oral dose of E - Z - PAQUE will vary depending on the size and anatomy of the patient and the procedure being performed .
The recommended oral dose of reconstituted E - Z - PAQUE : • Adults : 150 to 750 mL , 169 to 450 g barium sulfate , depending on the reconstituted concentration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Volumes closer to 150 mL are recommended for examination of the esophagus and stomach .
• Volumes up to 750 mL are recommended for examination of the small bowel .
• Pediatric Patients : Adjust dose of reconstituted E - Z - PAQUE based on GI volume .
• For examinations of the upper GI tract , administer a volume sufficient to fully distend the esophagus or stomach .
• For small bowel examinations : • Age birth to less than 2 years : 30 mL to 75 mL .
• Age 2 years to less than 17 years : 75 mL to 480 mL .
2 . 2 Instructions for Reconstitution The reconstituted concentration will vary , depending on the procedure being performed .
• A barium suspension up to 115 % w / v is recommended for examinations of the esophagus and upper GI • A barium suspension of 60 % w / v is recommended for examinations of the small bowel .
Reconstitute the E - Z - PAQUE prior to administration according to the following instructions : • Tap bottle on a hard surface ( right side up ) several times to compact the product in the bottle .
• Add water to the blue line marked ‘ Initial Fill Line ’ on the bottle .
• Replace cap securely on the bottle .
• Invert bottle and tap with fingers to mix contrast into the water .
• Shake vigorously for 30 seconds ; wait 5 minutes .
• Add more water as needed to achieve the desired % w / v concentration using the fill lines marked on the bottle .
Then , re - shake vigorously for 30 seconds .
• To use with straw , remove adhesive label on top of cap .
• Remove cap and use straw to push out cap liner ; replace cap .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions • Use immediately after reconstitution .
• Ensure patients have nothing by mouth for the following time period prior to the examination : • Neonates and infants < 3 months 2 hours • Infants 3 - 12 months 3 hours • > 12 months of age 4 hours • Discard any unused suspension .
• Encourage patients to maintain hydration following the barium sulfate procedure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral suspension : 169 g of barium sulfate supplied as a fine , white to lightly colored powder ( 96 % w / w ) in a single - dose HDPE plastic bottle for reconstitution .
The suspension can be reconstituted to a desired strength of 60 , 70 , 85 , 100 , or 115 % w / v when prepared according to the corresponding fill line on the bottle .
The reconstituted solution should be opaque , white to lightly - colored and free from particles .
• For oral suspension : 169 grams of barium sulfate ( 96 % w / w ) in a single - dose bottle for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS E - Z - PAQUE is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions : • Known or suspected perforation of the GI tract • Known obstruction of the GI tract • High risk of GI perforation such as those with a recent prior GI perforation , acute GI hemorrhage or ischemia , toxic megacolon , severe ileus , post GI surgery or biopsy , acute GI injury or burn , or recent radiotherapy to the pelvis • High risk of aspiration such as those with prior aspiration , tracheo - esophageal fistula , or obtundation • With known severe hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of E - Z - PAQUE • Known or suspected perforation of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Known obstruction of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Conditions associated to high risk of GI aspiration ( 4 ) • Conditions associated to high risk of GI perforation ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of E - Z - PAQUE ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available ( 5 . 1 ) • Intra - abdominal barium leakage : May occur in conditions such as GI fistula , ulcer , inflammatory bowel disease , appendicitis or diverticulitis , severe stenosis or obstructing lesions of the GI tract ( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed GI transit and obstruction : Patients should maintain adequate hydration in days following a barium sulfate procedure to avoid obstruction or impaction caused by baroliths ( 5 . 3 ) • Aspiration pneumonitis : Patients with history of food aspiration or with swallowing disorders are at increased risk .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Barium sulfate preparations contain a number of excipients , including natural and artificial flavors and may induce serious hypersensitivity reactions .
The manifestations include hypotension , bronchospasm and other respiratory impairments , dermal reactions including rashes , urticaria , and itching .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent may increase the risk for hypersensitivity reactions .
Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 2 Intra - abdominal Barium Leakage The use of E - Z - PAQUE is contraindicated in patients at high risk of perforation of the GI tract [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of E - Z - PAQUE may result in leakage of barium from the GI tract in the presence of conditions such as carcinomas , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , diverticulitis , and in patients with a severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , especially distal to the stomach .
Barium leakage has been associated with peritonitis and granuloma formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Gastrointestinal Transit and Obstruction Orally administered barium sulfate may accumulate proximal to a constricting lesion of the colon , causing obstruction or impaction with development of baroliths ( inspissated barium associated with feces ) and may cause abdominal pain , appendicitis , bowel obstruction , or rarely perforation .
Patients with the following conditions are at higher risk for developing obstruction or baroliths : severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , impaired GI motility , electrolyte imbalance , dehydration , on a low residue diet , on medications that delay GI motility , constipation , cystic fibrosis , Hirschsprung disease , and the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
To reduce the risk of delayed GI transit and obstruction , patients should maintain adequate hydration during and in the days following a barium sulfate procedure .
Consider the administration of laxatives .
5 . 4 Aspiration Pneumonitis The use of E - Z - PAQUE is contraindicated in patients at high risk of aspiration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oral administration of barium is associated with aspiration pneumonitis , especially in patients with a history of food aspiration or with compromised swallowing mechanism .
Vomiting following oral administration of barium sulfate may lead to aspiration pneumonitis .
In patients at risk for aspiration , begin the procedure with a small ingested volume of E - Z - PAQUE .
Discontinue administration of E - Z - PAQUE immediately if aspiration is suspected .
5 . 5 Systemic Embolization Barium sulfate products may occasionally intravasate into the venous drainage of the large bowel and enter the circulation as a " barium embolus " leading to potentially fatal complications which include systemic and pulmonary embolism , disseminated intravascular coagulation , septicemia and prolonged severe hypotension .
Although this complication is exceedingly uncommon after oral administration of a barium sulfate suspension , monitor patients for potential intravasation when administering barium sulfate .
5 . 6 Risk with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance E - Z - PAQUE contains sorbitol which may cause severe symptoms if ingested by patients with hereditary fructose intolerance .
Severe symptoms may include the following : vomiting , hypoglycemia , jaundice , hemorrhage , hepatomegaly , hyperuricemia , and kidney failure .
Before administration of E - Z - PAQUE assess patients for a history of hereditary fructose intolerance and avoid use in these patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reporting or clinical studies of barium sulfate administered orally .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure • Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping • Serious adverse reactions and fatalities include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , intestinal perforation with consequent peritonitis and granuloma formation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes Common adverse reactions include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary E - Z - PAQUE is not absorbed systemically following oral administration , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary E - Z - PAQUE is not absorbed systemically by the mother following oral administration , and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to E - Z - PAQUE [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The efficacy of E - Z - PAQUE in pediatric patients from birth to less than 17 years of age is based on successful opacification of the esophagus , stomach , duodenum and small bowel during radiologic examinations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on clinical experience [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
E - Z - PAQUE is contraindicated in pediatric patients with tracheo - esophageal fistula [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with a history of asthma or food allergies may be at increased risk for development of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease should be monitored for bowel obstruction after use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with hereditary fructose intolerance may develop severe symptoms with administration of E - Z - Paque ; assess for this risk and avoid use in patients with hereditary fructose intolerance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of E - Z - PAQUE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION E - Z - PAQUE ( barium sulfate ) is a radiographic contrast agent that is supplied as a fine , white to lightly colored powder for suspension ( 96 % w / w ) for oral administration .
The active ingredient barium sulfate is designated chemically as BaSO4 with a molecular weight of 233 . 4 g / mol , a density of 4 . 5 g / cm3 , and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] E - Z - PAQUE contains excipients including : carrageenan , citric acid , natural and artificial natural and artificial strawberry flavor , natural and artificial vanilla flavor , pectin , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , saccharin sodium , simethicone , sodium citrate , sorbitol , tragacanth and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Due to its high atomic number , barium ( the active ingredient in E - Z - PAQUE ) is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Under physiological conditions , barium sulfate passes through the GI tract in an unchanged form and is absorbed only in pharmacologically insignificant amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of barium sulfate or potential effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied E - Z - PAQUE ( barium sulfate ) is supplied as a fine white to lightly colored powder ( 96 % w / w ) in a single dose HDPE plastic bottle containing 169 g of barium sulfate .
Provided as : 24 bottles per pack ( NDC 32909 - 750 - 03 ) Storage and Handling Store at USP controlled room temperature 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION After administration advise patients to : • Maintain adequate hydration • Seek medical attention for worsening of constipation or slow gastrointestinal passage • Seek medical attention for any delayed onset of hypersensitivity : rash , urticaria , or respiratory difficulty Manufactured by : EZEM Canada Inc Anjou ( Quebec ) Canada H1J 2Z4 for : Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 CLDEB02 Revised December 2021 E - Z - Paque NDC : 32909 - 750 - 03 Barium Sulfate For Suspension Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
