Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each softgel ) Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 15 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Use temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold .
Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a cough that lasts or is chronic as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts for more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These can be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions do not take more than 8 softgels in any 24 - hour period this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age adults and children 12 years and older take 2 softgels every 6 to 8 hours , as needed children under 12 years do not use Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) • protect from light Inactive ingredients edible white ink , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , gelatin , glycerin , isopropyl alcohol , medium chain triglycerides , polyethylene glycol , povidone , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitol sorbitan solution Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 577 - 8033 Monday - Friday 8 am - 4 pm EST Compare to the active ingredient in Robitussin ® CoughGels ® * Relieves cough for up to 8 Hours Non - Drowsy READ AND KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING FROM BOTTLE Distributed by : C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W 9 Mile Rd Novi , MI 48375 www . qualitychoice . com Product of UAE Packaged and Quality Assured in the USA * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Robitussin ® CoughGels ® .
100 % QC SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
