Drug Facts Active Ingredients Moschus Bovis Calculus Margarita ( Hyriopsis Cuming II ) Borneolum syntheticum Calamina ( Calcined ) Borax Succinum Purpose Formulated for symptoms associated with hemorrhoids such as itching , discomfort associated with hemorrhoids Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Use : Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids .
Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning .
Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts .
Temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful .
Warnings : For external and / or intrarectal use only .
Not for oral use .
Avoid spicy or sour foods when using this product .
If pregnant , please consult a health professional .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
Stop using and consult a doctor , if bleeding occurs , condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days .
Introduction of applicator into the rectum causes additional pain .
Directions : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment .
• Apply 2 times daily , once in the morning and once in the evening .
When used for external hemorrhoids and anal fissure , apply to the affected area directly .
• For Intrarectal use : remove cover from applicator , attached applicator to tube , lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum , thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover .
Inactive Ingredients : Lanolin , Petrolatum , Dimethyl sulfoxide .
Other Information : Keep container closed tightly .
Store at room temperature under 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 28 ℃ ) .
Storage : Store in a cool , dry place .
Note : Moschus and Bovis Calculus are Moschus artifactus and Bovis artifactus .
These ingredients are not derived from a natural source .
Packing : 10 g / tube For questions please write info @ trifecta - pharma . com Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Description : The ointment is for the treatment and relief of itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids .
In most cases Ma Ying Long Hemorrhoidal ointment can clear heat and toxic material , remove the putrid tissues and promote their regeneration .
It is also used to relieve pain and swelling caused by hemorrhoids .
The ointment is grey - yellow or pink color , with fragrant smell and has a cool feeling .
It is a well - known OTC drug to treat hemorrhoids .
Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
Traditional Chinese Medicine Since 1582 Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) Listed in China Pharmacopoeia ( CP ) Manufactured by : Ma Ying Long Pharmaceutical Group Co . LTD , Product of China Registration No .
GYZZZ42021920 Distributed by : Trifecta Pharmaceuticals USA ™ 101 NE Third Avenue , Suite 1500 Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33301 , USA 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 www . trifecta - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
