Rx Only For topical use only .
Not for oral or ophthalmic use .
DESCRIPTION Malathion lotion contains 0 . 005 g of malathion per mL in a vehicle of isopropyl alcohol ( 78 % ) , terpineol , dipentene , and pine needle oil .
The chemical name of malathion is ( ± ) - [ ( dimethoxyphosphinothioyl ) - thio ] butanedioic acid diethyl ester .
Malathion has a molecular weight of 330 . 36 , represented by C10H19O6PS2 , and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Malathion is an organophosphate agent which acts as a pediculicide by inhibiting cholinesterase activity in vivo .
Inadvertent transdermal absorption of malathion has occurred from its agricultural use .
In such cases , acute toxicity was manifested by excessive cholinergic activity , i . e . , increased sweating , salivary and gastric secretion , gastrointestinal and uterine motility , and bradycardia ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Because the potential for transdermal absorption of malathion from malathion lotion is not known at this time , strict adherence to the dosing instructions regarding its use in children , method of application , duration of exposure , and frequency of application is required .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Malathion lotion is indicated for patients infected with Pediculus humanus capitis ( head lice and their ova ) of the scalp hair .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Malathion lotion is contraindicated for neonates and infants because their scalps are more permeable and may have increased absorption of malathion .
Malathion lotion should also not be used on individuals known to be sensitive to malathion or any of the ingredients in the vehicle .
WARNINGS • Malathion lotion is flammable .
The lotion and wet hair should not be exposed to open flames or electric heat sources , including hair dryers and electric curlers .
Do not smoke while applying lotion or while hair is wet .
Allow hair to dry naturally and to remain uncovered after application of malathion lotion .
• Malathion lotion should only be used on children under the direct supervision of an adult .
• If malathion lotion comes into contact with the eyes , flush immediately with water .
Consult a physician if eye irritation persists .
• If skin irritation occurs , discontinue use of product until irritation clears .
Reapply the malathion lotion , and if irritation reoccurs , consult a physician .
• Chemical burns including second - degree burns and stinging sensations may occur with the use of malathion lotion .
General Keep out of reach of children .
Close eyes tightly during product application .
If accidentally placed in the eye , flush immediately with water .
Use only on scalp hair .
Information to Patients • Malathion lotion is flammable .
The lotion and hair wet with lotion should not be exposed to open flames or electric heat sources , including hair dryers and electric curlers .
Do not smoke while applying lotion or while hair is wet .
The person applying malathion lotion should wash hands after application .
Allow hair to dry naturally and to remain uncovered after application of malathion lotion .
• Malathion lotion should only be used on children under the direct supervision of an adult .
Children should be warned to stay away from lighted cigarettes , open flames , and electric heat sources while the hair is wet .
• In case of accidental ingestion of malathion lotion by mouth , seek medical attention immediately .
• If you are pregnant or nursing , you should contact your physician before using malathion lotion .
• If malathion lotion comes into contact with the eyes , flush immediately with water .
Consult a physician if eye irritation persists or if visual changes occur .
• If skin irritation occurs , wash scalp and hair immediately .
If the irritation clears , malathion lotion may be reapplied .
If irritation reoccurs , consult a physician .
• Burns and stinging sensations may occur when using malathion lotion .
• Apply malathion lotion on the scalp hair in an amount just sufficient to thoroughly wet hair and scalp .
Pay particular attention to the back of the head and neck when applying malathion lotion .
Anyone applying malathion lotion should wash hands immediately after the application process is complete .
• Allow hair to dry naturally and to remain uncovered .
Shampoo hair after 8 to 12 hours , again paying attention to the back of the head and neck while shampooing .
• Rinse hair and use a fine - toothed ( nit ) comb to remove dead lice and eggs .
• If lice are still present after 7 - 9 days , repeat with a second application of malathion lotion .
• Further treatment is generally not necessary .
Other family members should be evaluated by a physician to determine if infested , and if so , receive treatment .
Laboratory Tests There are no special laboratory tests needed in order to use this medication .
Carcinogenesis Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis and impairment of fertility have not been studied with malathion lotion ( 0 . 5 % pharmaceutical grade malathion ) .
However , following long - term oral administration of technical grade malathion to rodents via dietary supplementation , increased incidences of hepatocellular neoplastic lesions were observed in B6C3F1 mice dosed for 18 months at malathion doses greater than 1500 mg / kg / day , and in female F344 rats dosed for 2 years at malathion doses greater than 400 mg / kg / day .
These tumors occurred only in association with severe hepatic toxicity and chronic suppression of acetylcholinesterase activity , or at doses causing excessive mortality .
Based on body surface area , doses at which carcinogenic effects were observed in rodents following life - time exposures to malathion were approximately 14 - to 26 - fold greater than the maximum dose anticipated in a 10 kg child following a single use of malathion lotion , assuming 100 % bioavailability .
Actual systemic exposures are expected to be less than 10 % of the administered dose .
The malathion of greater than pharmaceutical - grade purity used in malathion lotion has not been tested for genotoxicity .
The technical - grade malathion ( 95 % pure ) was found to be negative in Salmonella typhimurium , equivocally positive in the mouse lymphoma cell assay , and positive in in vitro chromosomal aberration and sister chromatid exchange assays .
Fifteen separate in vitro gene mutation studies with malathion of unknown purity have reported negative results , while three studies reported malathion to be mutagenic in bacterial cells .
Both technical grade ( 94 – 96 . 5 % ) and purified ( 98 - 99 % ) malathion have been reported to cause chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges in vitro in human and hamster cell lines .
In vivo chromosomal aberration and micronucleus studies of technical - grade malathion are reported to be positive , whereas an in vivo chromosomal aberration study of > 99 % pure malathion was reported to be negative .
Furthermore , mice exposed to malathion in their drinking water for 7 weeks demonstrated no evidence of chromosome damage in bone marrow cells , spermatogonia , or primary spermatocytes .
Lack of details makes independent evaluation of the results of these assays impossible .
Ashby and Purchase have suggested that impurities may be responsible for some of the observed genetic activity of malathion .
Reproduction studies performed with malathion in rats at doses over 180 fold greater than those anticipated in a 60 kg adult ( based on body surface area and assuming 100 % bioavailability ) revealed no evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There was no evidence of teratogenicity in studies in rats and rabbits at doses up to 900 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day malathion , respectively .
A study in rats failed to show any gross fetal abnormalities attributable to feeding malathion up to 2 , 500 ppm ( ~ 200 mg / kg / day ) in the diet during a three - generation evaluation period .
These doses were approximately 40 to 180 times higher than the dose anticipated in a 60 kg adult ( based on body surface area and assuming 100 % bioavailability ) .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human responses , this drug should be used ( or handled ) during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Malathion in an acetone vehicle has been reported to be absorbed through human skin to the extent of 8 % of the applied dose .
However , percutaneous absorption from the malathion lotion , 0 . 5 % formulation has not been studied , and it is not known whether malathion is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when malathion lotion is administered to ( or handled by ) a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of malathion lotion in children less than 6 years of age has not been established via well - controlled trials .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Malathion has been shown to be irritating to the skin and scalp .
Other adverse reactions reported are chemical burns including second - degree burns .
Accidental contact with the eyes can result in mild conjunctivitis .
It is not known if malathion lotion has the potential to cause contact allergic sensitization .
OVERDOSAGE Consideration should be given , as part of the treatment program , to the high concentration of isopropyl alcohol in the vehicle .
Malathion , although a weaker cholinesterase inhibitor than some other organophosphates , may be expected to exhibit the same symptoms of cholinesterase depletion after accidental ingestion orally .
If accidentally swallowed , vomiting should be induced promptly or the stomach lavaged with 5 % sodium bicarbonate solution .
Severe respiratory distress is the major and most serious symptom of organophosphate poisoning requiring artificial respiration , and atropine may be needed to counteract the symptoms of cholinesterase depletion .
Repeat analyses of serum and RBC cholinesterase may assist in establishing the diagnosis and formulating a long - range prognosis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Apply malathion lotion on DRY hair in amount just sufficient to thoroughly wet the hair and scalp .
Pay particular attention to the back of the head and neck while applying malathion lotion .
Wash hands after applying to scalp .
• Allow hair to dry naturally - use no electric heat source , and allow hair to remain uncovered .
• After 8 to 12 hours , the hair should be shampooed .
• Rinse and use a fine - toothed ( nit ) comb to remove dead lice and eggs .
• If lice are still present after 7 - 9 days , repeat with a second application of malathion lotion .
Further treatment is generally not necessary .
Other family members should be evaluated by a physician to determine if infested , and if so , receive treatment .
Clinical Studies Two controlled clinical trials evaluated the pediculicidal activity of malathion lotion .
Patients applied the lotion to the hair and scalp in quantities , up to a maximum of 2 fl .
oz . , sufficient to thoroughly wet the hair and scalp .
The lotion was allowed to air dry and was shampooed with Prell shampoo 8 to 12 hours after application .
Patients in both the malathion lotion group and in the vehicle group were examined immediately after shampooing , 24 hours after , and 7 days after for the presence of live lice .
Results are shown in the following table : Number of Patients Without Live Scalp LiceTreatment Immediately After 24 Hrs .
After 7 Days After Malathion lotion 129 / 129 122 / 129 114 / 126 Malathion vehicle 105 / 105 63 / 105 31 / 105 The presence or absence of ova at day 7 was not evaluated in these studies .
The presence or absence of live lice or ova at 14 days following treatment was not evaluated in these studies .
The residual amount of malathion on hair and scalp is unknown .
HOW SUPPLIED Malathion Lotion USP , 0 . 5 % , is supplied in bottles of 2 fl .
oz .
( 59 mL ) NDC 51672 - 5294 - 4 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat and open flame .
Mfd .
by : Suven Life Sciences Limited , Plot No . 262 - 271 , IDA , Pashamylaram , Sangareddy District , Telangana , 502 307 , India .
Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Issued : March , 2017 0317 - 2 Lb30006 - 4 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 59 mL Bottle Carton 2 fl oz ( 59 mL ) NDC 51672 - 5294 - 4 Malathion ( Lotion ) USP , 0 . 5 % In isopropyl alcohol ( 78 % ) , terpineol , dipentene and pine needle oil .
PEDICULICIDE / OVICIDE WARNING : Contains flammable alcohol .
Avoid smoking , open flame and hair dryers .
Allow hair to dry naturally and uncovered .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
