DESCRIPTION Each Anusol - HC ™ 25 mg Suppository contains 25 mg hydrocortisone acetate in a hydrogenated vegetable oil base .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy ( 11ß ) - with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 percent of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post - irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of the anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATION Anusol - HC ™ suppositories are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
Information for Patients : Staining of fabric may occur with use of the suppository .
Precautionary measures are recommended .
Pregnancy : In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Anusol - HC ™ suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk of the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Anusol - HC ™ suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with corticosteroid suppositories .
• 1 .
Burning • 2 .
Itching • 3 .
Irritation • 4 .
Dryness • 5 .
Folliculitis • 6 .
Hypopigmentation • 7 .
Allergic contact dermatitis • 8 .
Secondary infection To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence has not been reported in patients treated with Anusol - HC ™ suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Dosage : One suppository in the rectum morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily ; or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to response .
HOW SUPPLIED Anusol - HC ™ 25 mg Suppositories are white , cylinder shaped , with one end tapered .
NDC 65649 - 411 - 12 25 mg 12 suppositories NDC 65649 - 411 - 24 25 mg 24 suppositories Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store away from heat .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
Manufactured for : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Anusol - HC is a trademark of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc . or its affiliates .
© Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] OPENING INSTRUCTIONS Avoid excessive handling of the suppository .
It is designed to melt at body temperature .
1 .
Separate plastic film at top opening and pull downward .
2 .
Continue pulling downward to almost the full length of the suppository .
3 .
Gently remove the suppository from the film pocket .
Rev . 10 / 2017 9520701 2201318 9B500 9 L J2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 65649 - 411 - 12 Rx only Anusol - HC ™ ( Hydrocortisone Acetate in a Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil Base ) For rectal use only .
Not for oral use .
12 Suppositories [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
