BOXED WARNING WARNINGS Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with metformin ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 µg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ' s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin and by use of the minimum effective dose of metformin .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , metformin should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , metformin should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP on lactate metabolism .
In addition , metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ' s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms , could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking metformin do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP are dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS AND PRECAUTIONS ) .
DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride , USP is an oral antihyperglycemic drug used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride , USP is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride , USP is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP contain 500 mg , 850 mg , and 1000 mg of metformin hydrochloride , USP .
Each tablet contains the inactive ingredients povidone , polyethylene glycol and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the coating for 500 mg , 850 mg and 1000 mg contains : lactose monohydrate , hypromellose , titanium dioxide , triacetin .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin hydrochloride decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability The absolute bioavailability of a metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 - 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP of 500 mg to 1500 mg , and 850 mg to 2550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Food decreases the extent of and slightly delays the absorption of metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) , a 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) following administration of a single 850 mg tablet of metformin with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
The clinical relevance of these decreases is unknown .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins in contrast to sulfonylureas which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 - 48 hours and are generally < 1 µg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of metformin , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 µg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Elimination Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) , nor is there any accumulation of metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
Renal Insufficiency In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ) .
Metformin treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced .
( See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
PLEASE REVIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION WHICH INCLUDES ALL TABLES REFERENCED : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = 9c74e4f2 - b323 - 41 eb - 9e43 - 848ab82b527b Pediatrics After administration of a single oral metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablet with food , geometric mean metformin Cmax and AUC differed less than 5 % between pediatric type 2 diabetic patients ( 12 to 16 years of age ) and gender - and weight - matched healthy adults ( 20 to 45 years of age ) , all with normal renal function .
Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP was comparable in males and females .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) and hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and children with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with : - Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
- Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP .
- Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
Metformin should be temporarily discontinued in patients undergoing radiologic studies involving intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials , because use of such products may result in acute alteration of renal function .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
PRECAUTIONS General Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Monitoring of renal function Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function .
Thus , patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive metformin .
In patients with advanced age , metformin should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect , because aging is associated with reduced renal function .
In elderly patients , particularly those ≥ 80 years of age , renal function should be monitored regularly and , generally , metformin should not be titrated to the maximum dose ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Before initiation of metformin therapy and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified as normal .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , renal function should be assessed more frequently and metformin discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or metformin disposition Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin , such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , should be used with caution .
Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials ( for example , intravenous urogram , intravenous cholangiography , angiography , and computed tomography ( CT ) scans with intravascular contrast materials ) Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , metformin should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re - evaluated and found to be normal .
Hypoxic states Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on metformin therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued .
Surgical procedures Metformin therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ' s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
Alcohol intake Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving metformin .
Impaired hepatic function Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis , metformin should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels In controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate and metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , metformin must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Loss of control of blood glucose When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to withhold metformin and temporarily administer insulin .
Metformin may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved .
The effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in lowering blood glucose to a targeted level decreases in many patients over a period of time .
This phenomenon , which may be due to progression of the underlying disease or to diminished responsiveness to the drug , is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective during initial therapy .
Should secondary failure occur with metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy , combined therapy with metformin and sulfonylurea may result in a response .
Should secondary failure occur with combined metformin / sulfonylurea therapy , it may be necessary to consider therapeutic alternatives including initiation of insulin therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of metformin and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counseled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin is used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
( See Patient Information Printed Below . )
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with metformin therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with metformin ) Glyburide In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , co - administration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and Cmax were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets , USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by co - administration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood Cmax by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when co - administered chronically .
Nifedipine A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co - administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
Tmax half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Cationic Drugs Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , and vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin , the patient should be observed closely for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when co - administered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately four times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , metformin should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with metformin .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS NURSING MOTHERS Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If metformin is discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
PEDIATRIC USE The safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP for treatment of type 2 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years ( studies have not been conducted in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years ) .
Use of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of Metformin in adults with additional data from a controlled clinical study in pediatric patients ages 10 - 16 years with type 2 diabetes , which demonstrated a similar response in glycemic control to that seen in adults .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Studies . )
In this study , adverse effects were similar to those described in adults .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients . )
A maximum daily dose of 2000 mg is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Recommended Dosing Schedule : Pediatrics . )
GERIATRIC USE Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney and because the risk of serious adverse reactions to the drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function , it should only be used in patients with normal renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because aging is associated with reduced renal function , metformin should be used with caution as age increases .
Care should be taken in dose selection and should be based on careful and regular monitoring of renal function .
Generally , elderly patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin ( see also WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a U . S . double - blind clinical study of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received metformin therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
PLEASE REVIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION WHICH INCLUDES THE ADVERSE REACTIONS TABLE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = 9c74e4f2 - b323 - 41 eb - 9e43 - 848ab82b527b Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with metformin .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 - ≤ 5 . 0 % of metformin patients and were more commonly reported with metformin than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
Pediatric Patients In clinical trials with metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin hydrochloride has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP is 2550 mg in adults and 2000 mg in pediatric patients ( 10 - 16 years of age ) .
Metformin should be given in divided doses with meals and should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylureas or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP is 500 mg twice a day or 850 mg once a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks , up to a total of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Patients can also be titrated from 500 mg twice a day to 850 mg twice a day after 2 weeks .
For those patients requiring additional glycemic control , metformin may be given to a maximum daily dose of 2550 mg per day .
Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given three times a day with meals .
Pediatrics The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP is 500 mg twice a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Transfer from Other Antidiabetic Therapy When transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to metformin , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets , USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and prior failure on glyburide , patients started on metformin 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg were titrated to 1000 / 20 mg , 1500 / 20 mg , 2000 / 20 mg or 2500 / 20 mg of metformin and glyburide , respectively , to reach the goal of glycemic control as measured by FPG , HbA1c and plasma glucose response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets , USP and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2500 mg for metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin is not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP are not recommended in patients below the age of 10 years .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
( See WARNINGS . )
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 51655 - 549 - 83 MFG : 57664 - 397 - 58 Metformin HCL 500 mg 180 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains 500 mg of Metformin Hydrochloride , USP Dosage : See prescriber ' s instructions Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Keep out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Manufactured for Caraco Pharmaceuticals , Detroit , MI Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
