Partial Fill DESCRIPTION Each mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP contains : Sodium Chloride USP 9 mg ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 5 . 5 ( 4 . 5 – 7 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 310 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / 100 mL ) : Sodium 15 . 4 Chloride 15 . 4 This solution is sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class VI testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container / solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container has two ports , one is for the intravenous administration set and the other is a medication addition site .
Each is covered by a tamperproof barrier .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container to properly identify the ports .
No vapor barrier is necessary .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP provides electrolytes and is a source of water for hydration .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This intravenous solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of electrolytes and water for hydration .
This product is designed for use as a diluent and delivery system for intermittent intravenous administration of compatible drug additives .
Consult prescribing information for INDICATIONS AND USAGE of drug additives to be administered in this manner .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This solution is contraindicated where the administration of sodium or chloride could be clinically detrimental .
WARNINGS Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require tailoring of the electrolyte pattern , in this or an alternative solution ( s ) .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Care should be exercised in administering solutions containing sodium to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Laboratory Tests Periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Drug Interactions Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving cortiscosteroids or corticotrophin .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Studies have not been conducted to evaluate additional drug / drug or drug / food interactions with Sodium Chloride Injection USP .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP .
It is also not known whether 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Studies have not been conducted to evaluate the effects of Sodium Chloride Injection USP on labor and delivery .
As reported in the literature , sodium chloride solutions have been administered during labor and delivery .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of sodium chloride injections in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of Sodium Chloride solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
All Warnings , Precautions and Adverse Reactions described in this label apply to pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation , and hypervolemia .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives diluted and administered from the plastic partial fill container .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only .
Do not use plastic container in series connection .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
As directed by a physician .
Dosage is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
There is no specific pediatric dose .
The dose is dependent on weight , clinical condition , and laboratory results .
Follow recommendations of appropriate pediatric reference text .
See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use .
When using this product as a diluent or vehicle for administration of drug additives , consult the prescribing information of the drug to be used .
Addition of medication should be accomplished using aseptic technique in order to assure sterility .
Physicochemical studies have shown that the container and solution can withstand freezing .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in partial fill polyolefin containers .
NDC REF Fill / Container ( mL ) 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP 70529 - 021 - 01 S8004 - 5264 100 Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Rx only Revised : October 2016 Directions For Use of PAB ® Container Partial Additive Bag Aseptic technique is required .
Caution : Before use , perform the following checks : Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
Inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Single dose container .
Discard unused portion .
Consult Package Insert for complete product information .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives diluted and administered from the plastic partial fill container .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
Do not use plastic container in series connection .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Physicochemical studies have shown that the container and solution can withstand freezing .
1 .
Identify Two Ports ( See Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
To Add Medication Remove additive port closure : hold container below additive port and grasp cap between thumb and forefinger then flip cap upward ( See Figure B ) .
Swab exposed additive port .
Using a syringe with 18 gauge or smaller needle , insert cannula through resealable additive port and add desired drug .
Mix thoroughly .
Note : Partial fill bags have been designed to accept an overfill of up to 50 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
To Attach Administration Set To aseptically remove the set port closure : hold container below the set port and grasp the foil tab between the thumb and forefinger then pull the tab in two steps as shown in Figure C Steps 1 and 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Push spike through the diaphragm of the port ( See Figure D ) .
Hang container using hole on the lower flap .
Prime set in accordance with the Directions for Use provided with the set in use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] When the container is to be used as a diluent and delivery system for intermittent intravenous administration of compatible drug additives , consult prescribing information for INDICATIONS AND USAGE of drug additives to be administered in this manner .
Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
PAB ® containers can be safely transported in a standard 6 - inch carrier through a pneumatic tube system that is well maintained and running properly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Y36 - 002 - 925 LD - 224 - 5 Assembled and Distributed by IT3 Medical , LLC 190 E Stacy Road ; STE 306 - 298 , Allen , TX 75002 - 8734 For questions or comments : info @ IT3 - Medical . com , www . IT3 - Medical . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
