[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient Active Ingredient Purpose Menthol 5 % Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • sprains • strains • bruises Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad Ask a doctor before use if you have • redness over affected area When using this product • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older apply to the affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily • open pouch & remove patch • peel off protective film and apply sticky side to affected area • children under 12 years of age consult a doctor Inactive ingredients adhesive plaster , aloe extract , dl - camphor , purified lanolin , spearmint , titanium dioxide , zinc oxide Questions ?
Call 1 - 844 - 922 - 7672 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Lasts Up to 8 Hours !
Absorbine jr . ® Plus Pain Relief Back Patch XL 5 % Menthol Relieves Back Pain & Stiffness • Not Messy or Greasy • Comfortable , Breathable & Stays on Securely 1 EXTRA LARGE Medicated Patch 9 × 4 in ( 22 × 10 cm ) Absorbine Jr .
Plus Back Patch Formula has a Unique Blend of Pain Relievers Specially Developed to Provide Penetrating Relief from Deep - Seated Aches and Pains Associated with Chronic or Activity - Induced Back Pain .
FOR EASY REMOVAL OF PROTECTIVE FILM PULL STRETCH PEEL APPLY • Not Messy or Greasy • Comfortable , Breathable & Stays on Securely • Soft , Flexible , and Will Not Stain • Wear Underneath Clothing without Detection • Can Cut to Desired Size Distributed by : Clarion Brands , LLC 27070 Miles Rd . , Suite A , Solon , OH 44139 BP181001USA © 2018 NC / DL - 378 - A & U Made in India www . absorbinejr . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
