OBAGI NU - DERM ® Rx only For external use only DESCRIPTION Hydroquinone , USP 4 % is 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; molecular weight is 110 . 11 g / mol .
The chemical structure is in the diagram below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm ® Clear contains : ACTIVE : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) INACTIVES : ascorbic acid , BHT , butylparaben , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , lactic acid , methylparaben , propylparaben , saponins , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium metabisulfite , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , water ( aqua ) Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Blender ® contains : ACTIVE : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) INACTIVES : ascorbic acid , BHT , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , lactic acid , methylparaben , phenyl trimethicone , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , propylparaben , saponins , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium metabisulfite , TEA - salicylate , tocopheryl acetate , water ( aqua ) Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm ® Sunfader ® contains : ACTIVES : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) ; Octinoxate , USP 7 . 5 % ; Oxybenzone , USP 5 . 5 % INACTIVES : ascorbic acid , BHT , butylparaben , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , methylparaben , propylparaben , saponins , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium metabisulfite , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , water ( aqua ) CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunscreen agents such as those contained in Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader ® and Obagi Nu - Derm ® Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS People with prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients should not use it .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Hydroquinone is a skin - bleaching agent , which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this product .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Some users of this product may experience a mild skin irritation .
If skin irritation becomes severe , stop use and consult a doctor .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
WARNINGS : Avoid contact with eyes , nose , mouth and lips .
In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse thoroughly with water and contact a physician .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS ( also see WARNINGS ) : Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation , which does not preclude treatment .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC USAGE Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the product should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC , at 1 - 800 - 636 - 7546 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin application should be applied once or twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure should be limited by using a sunscreen agent or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent darkening from reoccurring .
HOW SUPPLIED Obagi Nu - Derm ® Clear is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 101 - 36 Obagi Nu - Derm Blender ® is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 36 Net wt .
1 oz .
( 28 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 10 Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader ® is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 116 - 36 Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep out of direct sunlight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 - 800 - 636 - 7546 Manufactured for : Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC , Long Beach , CA 90806 All products / brand names , whether designated by notice or not ( ® / TM ) , are trademarks of Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC and / or its affiliates .
© 2019 Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC .
All rights reserved .
www . obagi . com Revised 01 / 2019 9458404 Obagi Nu - Derm ® Clear ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ) Skin Bleaching Cream Obagi Nu - Derm Blender ® ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ) Skin Bleaching Cream Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader ® ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ; Octinoxate , USP 7 . 5 % ; Oxybenzone , USP 5 . 5 % ) Skin Bleaching Cream with Sunscreens [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 Net wt .
1 oz .
( 28 g ) AM Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Homosalate 10 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 16 . 5 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • reapply at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other information • store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° C – 25 ° C ( 59 ° F – 77 ° F ) • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , C15 - 19 Alkane , Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Sorbitan Olivate , Silica , Polyglyceryl - 6 Polyrininoleate , Sodium Chloride , Xanthan Gum , Glycerin , Hydroxyacetophenone , Disodium EDTA , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Caprylyl Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Triethoxycaprylsilane , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Polyglyceryl - 2 Isostearate , Euphorbia Cerifera ( candelilla ) Wax , Beeswax , Dimethicone Questions or comments ?
1 . 800 . 636 . 7546 Monday – Friday 9 a . m . – 4 p . m . Pacific Time Distributed by Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC , Long Beach , CA 90806 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC # 62032 - 533 - 60 OBAGI ® MEDICAL OBAGI NU - DERM ® SYSTEM NORMAL OILY Skin Transformation Trial Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
