Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor Age ( year ) Dose ( mL ) children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL - 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL - 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C red no . 40 , flavors , glycerin , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , trisodium citrate dihydrate [ 1 ] , xanthan gum [ 1 ] may contain this ingredient Questions ?
1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) , Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in England PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton NDC 63824 - 214 - 64 Ages 4 Years + Children ' s Delsym ® COUGH + ® Chest Congestion DM Dextromethorphan HBr ( Cough Suppressant ) Guaifenesin ( Expectorant ) • ✓ Relieves Cough • ✓ Relieves Chest Congestion • ✓ Thins & Loosens Mucus Cherry Flavor 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
