DESCRIPTION : PR Natal 400 is a prescription regimen of prenatal multi - vitamin , multi - mineral , and omega - 3 fatty acid supplements , supplied as tablets and softgel capsules .
INDICATIONS : PR Natal 400 is a prescription regimen of prenatal multi - vitamin , multi - mineral , and omega - 3 fatty acid supplements indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women throughout pregnancy and in the post - natal period for both lactating and non - lactating mothers .
PR Natal 400 is also useful in improving nutritional status prior to conception .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients including fish or fish oil .
WARNINGS : PRECAUTIONS : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient .
Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega - 3 fatty acids ( including alphalinolenic acid ( ALA ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times , administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses , including those taking anticoagulants .
Folic acid especially in doses above 1 . 0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia ( hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive ) .
Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram ( 1 , 000 mg ) per day .
WARNING : WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone , as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , one tablet and one softgel capsule taken by mouth daily , or as directed by a physician .
The tablet and softgel capsule may be taken together or at different times of the day .
HOW SUPPLIED : A 30 - day supply of PR Natal 400 ( NDC 42546 - 811 - 30 ) is supplied in 2 bottles with child - resistant caps .
One bottle contains 30 pink - brown oval tablets imprinted with ‘ B056 ’ on one side .
A second bottle contains 30 translucent golden - colored oval DHA softgel capsules .
STORAGE : DISPENSING : Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture and excessive heat .
Note that contact with moisture may produce surface discolorations of the tablet .
Keep in a well - closed , light - resistant container .
Supplied in a child - resistant bottle as a safeguard against ingestion by children .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Box Label NDC 42546 - 811 - 30 PR Natal 400 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
