Rx only For Topical Use Not For Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION Each gram of ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) contains 0 . 5 mg diflorasone diacetate in a cream base for topical dermatological use .
Chemically , diflorasone diacetate is : 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - diacetate .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) contains : 0 . 5 mg diflorasone diacetate in a hydrophilic vanishing cream base of propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , sorbitan monostearate , polysorbate 60 , mineral oil and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
They are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical steroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Use of topical corticosteroids , including ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical diflorasone diacetate products .
Glaucoma , with possible damage to the optic nerve , and increased intraocular pressure have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical dermal corticosteroids .
Avoid contact of ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
Contact your healthcare provider if you experience blurred vision or other visual disturbances ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 4 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
• 5 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• 6 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on an infant or child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free - cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Diflorasone diacetate was not mutagenic in a micronucleus test in rats at intraperitoneal doses up to 2400 mg / kg .
Pregnancy : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ApexiCon E cream ( diflorasone diacetate 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream ) in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of diflorasone diacetate topical formulations did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from clinical trials or postmarketing surveillance .
Because they are reported from a population from unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to topical corticosteroids exposure .
These adverse reactions may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings or prolonged use of topical corticosteroids .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria Vision Disorders : cataract , glaucoma , central serous chorioretinopathy To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) should be applied to the affected areas as a thin film from one to three times daily depending on the severity or resistant nature of the condition .
For topical use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Wash hands after each application .
Do not use with occlusive dressings , unless directed by a physician ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy initiated .
HOW SUPPLIED ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream USP , 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) is available in the following size tubes : NDC 62559 - 365 - 30 30 gram tube NDC 62559 - 365 - 60 60 gram tube Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 46291084 A / 46291087 A N6800 Rev 09 / 21 # 56 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62559 - 365 - 30 ApexiCon ® E Cream ( diflorasone diacetate cream USP 0 . 05 % [ emollient ] ) FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
