DESCRIPTION Ocuvel is an orally administered prescription Vitamin for the dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels and other nutritional supplementation .
Ocuvel should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Each capsule contains : Folic Acid : 1 mg , Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) : 500 mg , Vitamin E ( dl - alpha tocopherol ) : 400 IU , Zinc ( oxide ) 80 mg , Copper ( oxide ) : 2 mg , Lutein : 10 mg , Zeaxanthin : 2 mg , Each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : Gelatin , Magnesium Stearate , Silica , FD & C Blue # 1 , Titanium Dioxide INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ocuvel is indicated for dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels and other nutritional supplementation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tell your doctor if you have : kidney problems , thyroid disease .
This medication should be used as directed during pregnancy or while breast - feeding .
Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Folic acid in doses above 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
ADVERSE REACTIONS This medication is generally well tolerated .
Notify your doctor if you experience : nausea , loss of appetite , vomiting , stomach cramps , dry mouth , increased thirst , increased urination , muscle or bone pain , headache , weakness , weight loss , dizziness .
If you notice other effects not listed above , contact your doctor or pharmacist .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take two capsules daily with or without food or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Ocuvel capsules are supplied as blue capsules printed with Ocuvel dispensed in HDPE plastic bottles of 60 ct .
NDC 69054 - 210 - 60 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 F - 86 째 F ) .
Keep in cool dry place .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ' s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence .
Manufactured for Adler - Stern Pharmaeuticals , LLC Tampa , FL 33626 Rev . 10 / 14 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
