Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each capsule ) Acetaminophen 500 mg Purposes Analgesic , Antipyretic Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to • the common cold • headache • toothache • muscular aches • backache • minor pain of arthritis • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 8 capsules in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use • with any other drugs containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present • pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In case of In case of overdose , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take 2 capsules every 4 hour to 6 hours , not to exceed 8 capsules in 24 hours .
Do not take for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor .
children under 12 years of age Do not use Extra Strength product in children 12 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) of pain reliever and could cause liver damage .
DO NOT EXCEED RECOMMENDED DOSE Other information • store at room temperature , USP • use by expiration date on pckage • do not use if capsule band or imprinted safety seal under cap is broken or missing • side effects occur • You may report side effects at 1 - 800 - 616 - 2471 ( Toll Free ) Inactive Ingredients FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , Gelatin , Polyvinylpyrrolidone , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Stearic Acid and Titanium Dioxide .
* Major Extra Strength Mapap is not manufactured or distributed by McNeil Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Extra Strength Tylenol ® .
Distributed by : MAJOR PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48150 USA This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0822 - 1 500 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack RED 0904 - 1987 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
