[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions , Severe Dermatologic Reactions ( 5 . 5 ) 12 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea .
Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are also used for the treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) in adult and pediatric patients lessthan 18 years of age .
Limitations of Use • Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above infections ; therefore , vancomycin hydrochloride capsules must be given orally for these infections .
• Orally administered vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are not effective for other types ofinfections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs , vancomycin hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are glycopeptide antibacterial indicated in adult and pediatric patients ( less than 18 years of age ) for the treatment of : ( 1 ) • Clostridioidesdifficile - associated diarrhea • Enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) Limitations of Use : ( 1 ) ( 5 . 1 ) • Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above infections ; therefore , vancomycin hydrochloride capsules must be given orally for these infections .
• Orally administered vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are not effective forother types of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs , vancomycin hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • C . difficile - associated diarrhea : • Adult Patients ( 18 years of age or greater ) : 125 mg orally 4 times daily for 10 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Patients ( less than 18 years of age ) : 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . ( 2 . 2 ) • Staphylococcal enterocolitis : • Adult Patients ( 18 years of age or greater ) : 500 mg to 2 g orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Patients ( less than 18 years of age ) : 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are used in treating C . difficile - associated diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis .
• C . difficile - associated diarrhea : The recommended dose is 125 mg administered orally 4 times daily for 10 days .
• Staphylococcal enterocolitis : Total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g administered orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients ( less than 18 years of age ) For both C . difficile - associated diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis , the usual daily dosage is40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules , USP 125 mg * have a grey cap and pink body imprinted with “ SAL ” on the cap and “ 729 ” on the body in black ink .
Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules , USP 250 mg * have a brown cap and brown body imprinted with “ SAL ” on the cap and “ 730 ” on the body in white ink .
* Equivalent to vancomycin .
125 mg capsules and 250 mg capsules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to vancomycin ( 4 ) Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vancomycin must be given orally for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Orally administered Vancomycin capsules are not effective for other types of infections .
( 5 . 1 ) • Clinically significant serum concentrations have been reported in some patients who have taken multiple oral doses of vancomycin for active C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Monitoring of serum concentrations may be appropriate in some instances .
( 5 . 2 ) • Nephrotoxicity has occurred following oral vancomycin therapy and can occur either during or after completion of therapy .
The risk is increased in geriatric patients ( 5 . 3 ) Monitor renal function .
• Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin ( 5 . 4 ) Assessment of auditory function may be appropriate in some instances .
• Severe Dermatologic Reactions : Discontinue Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules at the first appearance of skinrashes , mucosal lesions , or blisters .
( 5 . 5 ) • Prescribing vancomycin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug resistant bacteria .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Oral Use Only Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules for the treatment of colitis is for oral use only and is not systemically absorbed .
Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules must be given orally for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea .
Orally administered Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are not effective for other types of infections .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and and C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
If parenteral vancomycin therapy is desired , use an intravenous preparation of vancomycin and consult the package insert accompanying that preparation .
5 . 2 Potential for Systemic Absorption Clinically significant serum concentrations have been reported in some patients who have taken multiple oral doses of vancomycin for active C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Some patients with inflammatory disorders of the intestinal mucosa also may have significant systemic absorption of vancomycin .
These patients may be at risk for the development of adverse reactions associated with higher doses of vancomycin hydrochloride ; therefore , monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be appropriate in some instances , e . g . , in patients with renal insufficiency and / or colitis or in those receiving concomitant therapy with an aminoglycoside antibiotic .
5 . 3 Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) has occurred following oral vancomycin hydrochloride therapy in randomized controlled clinical studies , and can occur either during or after completion of therapy .
The risk of nephrotoxicity is increased in patients > 65 years of age [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride capsules to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
5 . 4 Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin .
It may be transient or permanent .
It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive intravenous doses , who have an underlying hearing loss , or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent , such as an aminoglycoside .
Serial tests of auditory function may be helpful in order to minimize the risk of ototoxicity [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Severe Dermatologic Reactions Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalizedexanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullous dermatosis ( LABD ) have been reported inassociation with the use of vancomycin .
Cutaneous signs or symptoms reported include skin rashes , mucosal lesions , and blisters .
Discontinue vancomycin hydrochloride capsules at the first appearance of signs and symptoms ofTEN , SJS , DRESS , AGEP , or LABD .
5 . 6 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing vancomycin hydrochloride in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug resistant bacteria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) were nausea ( 17 % ) , abdominal pain ( 15 % ) and hypokalemia ( 13 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report Suspected Adverse Reactions , contact Strides Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 244 - 9825 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to vancomycin hydrochloride in 260 adult subjects in two Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of diarrhea associated with C . difficile .
In both trials , subjects received vancomycin hydrochloride 125 mg orally four times daily .
The mean duration of treatment was 9 . 4 days .
The median age of patients was 67 , ranging between 19 and 96 years of age .
Patients were predominantly Caucasian ( 93 % ) and 52 % were male .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects are shown in Table 1 .
The most common adverse reactions associated with vancomycin hydrochloride ( ≥ 10 % ) were nausea , abdominal pain , and hypokalemia .
Table 1 : Common ( ≥ 5 % ) Adverse Reactionsa for Vancomycin Hydrochloride Reported in Clinical Trials for Treatment of Diarrhea Associated with C . difficileaAdverse reaction rates were derived from the incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events System / Organ Class Adverse Reaction Vancomycin hydrochloride % ( N = 260 ) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 17 Abdominal pain 15 Vomiting 9 Diarrhea 9 Flatulence 8 General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 9 Edema peripheral 6 Fatigue 5 Infections and infestations Urinary tract infection 8 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hypokalemia 13 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 6 Nervous system disorders Headache 7 Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) occurred in 5 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycinhydrochloride typically first occurred within one week after completion of treatment ( median day ofonset was Day 16 ) .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycin hydrochloride occurred in 6 % of subjects > 65 years of age and 3 % of subjects ≤ 65 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The incidences of hypokalemia , urinary tract infection , peripheral edema , insomnia , constipation , anemia , depression , vomiting , and hypotension were higher among subjects > 65 years of age than in subjects ≤ 65 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Discontinuation of study drug due to adverse events occurred in 7 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation of vancomycin hydrochloride were C . difficile colitis ( < 1 % ) , nausea ( < 1 % ) , and vomiting ( < 1 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of vancomycin hydrochloride .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Ototoxicity : Cases of hearing loss associated with intravenously administered vancomycin have been reported .
Most of these patients had kidney dysfunction or a preexisting hearing loss or were receiving concomitant treatment with an ototoxic drug [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Vertigo , dizziness , and tinnitus have been reported .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermalnecrolysis ( TEN ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemicsymptoms ( DRESS ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and linear IgA bullousdermatosis ( LABD ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] , rashes ( including exfoliative dermatitis ) .
Hematopoietic : Reversible neutropenia , usually starting 1 week or more after onset of intravenous therapy with vancomycin or after a total dose of more than 25 g , has been reported for several dozen patients .
Neutropenia appears to be promptly reversible when vancomycin is discontinued .
Thrombocytopenia has been reported .
Miscellaneous : Patients have been reported to have had anaphylaxis , drug fever , chills , nausea , eosinophilia and cases of vasculitis in association with the administration of vancomycin .
A condition has been reported that is similar to the IV – induced syndrome with symptoms consistent with anaphylactoid reactions , including hypotension , wheezing , dyspnea , urticaria , pruritus , flushing of the upper body ( “ vancomycin infusion reaction ” ) , pain and muscle spasm of the chest and back .
These reactions usually resolve within 20 minutes but may persist for several hours .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Geriatrics : In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
( 5 . 3 ) ( 6 . 1 ) ( 8 . 5 ) ( 14 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Systemic absorption of vancomycin is low following oral administration of vancomycin hydrochloride ; however , absorption may vary depending on various factors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There are no available data on vancomycin use in pregnant women to assess a risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
Available published data on intravenous vancomycin use in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters have not shown an association with adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
Vancomycin did not show adverse developmental effects when administered intravenously to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses less than or equal to the recommended maximum human dose ( see Data ) .
Data Human Data There are no available data on first trimester use of vancomycin in pregnant women to assess a risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
A published study evaluated hearing loss and nephrotoxicity in infants of 10 pregnant intravenous drug users treated with intravenous vancomycin for suspected or documented methicillin - resistant Staphylococcal aureus in the second or third trimester .
The comparison groups were 10 uninfected non - intravenous drug - dependent patients who received no treatment and 10 uninfected untreated intravenous drug - dependent patients .
No infant in the vancomycin exposed group had abnormal sensorineural hearing at 3 months of age or nephrotoxicity .
A published prospective study assessed outcomes in 55 pregnant women with a positive Group Bstreptococcus culture and a high - risk penicillin allergy with resistance to clindamycin or unknown sensitivity who were administered intravenous vancomycin at the time of delivery .
Vancomycin dosing ranged from the standard dose of 1 g intravenously every 12 hours to a dose of 20 mg / kg intravenously every 8 hours ( maximum individual dose 2 g ) .
No major adverse reactions were recorded either in the mothers or their newborns .
None of the newborns had sensorineural hearing loss .
Neonatal renalfunction was not examined , but all of the newborns were discharged in good condition .
Animal Data Vancomycin did not cause fetal malformation when administered intravenously during organogenesis to pregnant rats ( gestation days 6 to 15 ) and rabbits ( gestation days 6 to 18 ) at the equivalent recommended maximum human dose of 200 mg / kg / day to rats or 120 mg / kg / day to rabbits .
No effects on fetal weight or development were seen in rats at the highest dose tested or in rabbits given 80 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 and 0 . 8 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) .
Maternal toxicity was observed in rats ( at doses 120 mg / kg and above ) and rabbits ( at 80 mg / kg and above ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of vancomycin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production following oral administration .
Systemic absorption of vancomycin is low following oral administration of vancomycin hydrochloride [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] ; therefore , it is unlikely to result in clinically relevant exposure in breastfeeding infants .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for vancomycin hydrochloride and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from vancomycin hydrochloride or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Vancomycin hydrochloride is indicated in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age for the treatmentof C . difficile - associated diarrhea and enterocolitis caused by S . aureus ( including methicillin - resistantstrains ) [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials , 54 % of vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects were > 65 years of age .
Of these , 40 % were between the ages of > 65 and 75 , and 60 % were > 75 years of age .
Clinical studies with vancomycin hydrochloride in diarrhea associated with Clostridioides difficile have demonstrated that geriatric subjects are at increased risk of developing nephrotoxicity following treatment with oral vancomycin hydrochloride , which may occur during or after completion of therapy .
In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Patients > 65 years of age may take longer to respond to therapy compared to patients ≤ 65 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Clinicians should be aware of the importance of appropriate duration of vancomycin hydrochloride treatment in patients > 65 years of age and not discontinue or switch to alternative treatment prematurely .
10 OVERDOSAGE Supportive care is advised , with maintenance of glomerular filtration .
Vancomycin is poorly removed by dialysis .
Hemofiltration and hemoperfusion with polysulfone resin have been reported to result in increased vancomycin clearance .
To obtain current information about the treatment of overdose , contact a certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics .
11 DESCRIPTION Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules , USP for oral administration contain chromatographically purified vancomycin hydrochloride , a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic derived from Amycolatopsis orientalis ( formerly Nocardia orientalis ) , which has the chemical formula C66H75Cl2N9O24 • HCl .
The molecular weight of vancomycin hydrochloride is 1485 . 73 ; 500 mg of the base is equivalent to 0 . 34 mmol .
Each capsule contains 125 mg vancomycin ( equivalent to 128 mg vancomycin hydrochloride ) or 250 mg vancomycin ( equivalent to 256 mg vancomycin hydrochloride ) .
Inactive ingredient includes polyethylene glycol .
The 125 mg capsule shell contains gelatin , FD & C Blue No . 1 , D & C Red No . 28 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , titanium dioxide , iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow .
The capsules are printed with black ink .
The black imprinting ink contains shellac , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , strong ammonia solution , black iron oxide and potassium hydroxide .
The 250 mg capsule shell contains gelatin , black iron oxide , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow and titanium oxide .
The capsules are printed with white ink .
The white imprinting ink contains shellac , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , strong ammonia solution , potassium hydroxide and titanium dioxide .
Vancomycin hydrochloride has the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vancomycin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Vancomycin is poorly absorbed after oral administration .
During multiple dosing of 250 mg every 8 hours for 7 doses , fecal concentrations of vancomycin in volunteers exceeded 100 mg / kg in the majority of samples .
No blood concentrations were detected and urinary recovery did not exceed 0 . 76 % .
In anephric subjects with no inflammatory bowel disease who received vancomycin oral solution 2 g for 16 days , blood concentrations of vancomycin were less than or equal to 0 . 66 mcg / mL in 2 of 5 subjects .
No measurable blood concentrations were attained in the other 3 subjects .
Following doses of 2 g daily , concentrations of drug were > 3100 mg / kg in the feces and < 1 mcg / mL in the serum of subjects with normal renal function who had C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
After multiple - dose oral administration of vancomycin , measurable serum concentrations may occur in patients with active C . difficile - associated diarrhea , and , in the presence of renal impairment , the possibility of accumulation exists .
It should be noted that the total systemic and renal clearances of vancomycin are reduced in the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action The bactericidal action of vancomycin against Staphylococcus aureus and the vegetative cells of Clostridioides difficile results primarily from inhibition of cell - wall biosynthesis .
In addition , vancomycin alters bacterial - cell - membrane permeability and RNA synthesis .
Resistance Staphylococcus aureus S . aureus isolates with vancomycin minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) as high as 1024 mcg / mL have been reported .
The exact mechanism of this resistance is not clear but is believed to be due to cell wall thickening and potentially the transfer of genetic material .
Clostridioides difficile Isolates of C . difficile generally have vancomycin MICs of < 1 mcg / mL , however vancomycin MICs ranging from 4 mcg / mL to 16 mcg / mL have been reported .
The mechanism which mediates C . difficile ' s decreased susceptibility to vancomycin has not been fully elucidated .
Vancomycin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Gram - positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant isolates ) associated withenterocolitis .
Anaerobic gram - positive bacteria Clostridioides difficile isolates associated with C . difficile associated diarrhea .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term carcinogenesis studies in animals have been conducted .
At concentrations up to 1000 mcg / mL , vancomycin had no mutagenic effect in vitro in the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay or the primary rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis assay .
The concentrations tested in vitro were above the peak plasma vancomycin concentrations of 20 to 40 mcg / mL usually achieved in humans after slow infusion of the maximum recommended dose of 1 g . Vancomycin had no mutagenic effect in vivo in the Chinese hamster sister chromatid exchange assay ( 400 mg / kg IP ) or the mouse micronucleus assay ( 800 mg / kg IP ) .
No definitive fertility studies have been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Diarrhea Associated with Clostridioides difficile In two trials , vancomycin hydrochloride 125 mg orally four times daily for 10 days was evaluated in 266 adult subjects with C . difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) .
Enrolled subjects were 18 years of age or older and received no more than 48 hours of treatment with oral vancomycin hydrochloride or oral / intravenous metronidazole in the 5 days preceding enrollment .
CDAD was defined as ≥ 3 loose or watery bowel movements within the 24 hours preceding enrollment , and the presence of either C . difficile toxin A or B , or pseudomembranes on endoscopy within the 72 hours preceding enrollment .
Subjects with fulminant C . difficile disease , sepsis with hypotension , ileus , peritoneal signs or severe hepatic disease were excluded .
Efficacy analyses were performed on the Full Analysis Set ( FAS ) , which included randomized subjects who received at least one dose of vancomycin hydrochloride and had any post - dosing investigator evaluation data ( N = 259 ; 134 in Trial 1 and 125 in Trial 2 ) .
The demographic profile and baseline CDAD characteristics of enrolled subjects were similar in the two trials .
Vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects had a median age of 67 years , were mainly white ( 93 % ) , and male ( 52 % ) .
CDAD was classified as severe ( defined as 10 or more unformed bowel movements per day or WBC ≥ 15000 / mm3 ) in 25 % of subjects , and 47 % were previously treated for CDAD .
Efficacy was assessed by using clinical success , defined as diarrhea resolution and the absence of severe abdominal discomfort due to CDAD , on Day 10 .
An additional efficacy endpoint was the time to resolution of diarrhea , defined as the beginning of diarrhea resolution that was sustained through the end of the prescribed active treatment period .
The results for clinical success for vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects in both trials are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Clinical Success Rates ( Full Analysis Set ) Clinical Success Rate 95 % Confidence Interval Vancomycin % ( N ) Trial 1 81 . 3 ( 134 ) ( 74 . 4 , 88 . 3 ) Trial 2 80 . 8 ( 125 ) ( 73 . 5 , 88 . 1 ) The median time to resolution of diarrhea was 5 days and 4 days in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
For subjects older than 65 years of age , the median time to resolution was 6 days and 4 days in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
In subjects with diarrhea resolution at end - of - treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride , recurrence of CDAD during the following four weeks occurred in 25 of 107 ( 23 % ) and 18 of 102 ( 18 % ) in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
Restriction Endonuclease Analysis ( REA ) was used to identify C . difficile baseline isolates in the BI group .
In Trial 1 , the vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects were classified at baseline as follows 31 ( 23 % ) with BI strain , 69 ( 52 % ) with non - BI strain , and 34 ( 25 % ) with unknown strain .
Clinical success rates were 87 % for BI strain , 81 % for non - BI strain , and 76 % for unknown strain .
In subjects with diarrhea resolution at end - of treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride , recurrence of CDAD during the following four weeks occurred in 7 of 26 subjects with BI strain , 12 of 56 subjects with non - BI strain , and 6 of 25 subjects with unknown strain .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Byrd RA . , Gries CL , Buening M . : Developmental Toxicology Studies of Vancomycin HydrochlorideAdministered Intravenously to Rats and Rabbits .
Fundam Appl Toxicol 1994 ; 23 : 590 - 597 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are available in : The 125 mg * capsules have a grey cap and pink body imprinted with " SAL " on the cap and " 729 " on the body in black ink .
The 250 mg * capsules have a brown cap and brown body imprinted with " SAL " on the cap and " 730 " on the body in white ink .
Strength Pack NDC number Vancomycin 125 mg Blister pack of 20 47781 - 729 - 02 Bottle pack of 50 47781 - 729 - 50 Bottle pack of 100 47781 - 729 - 01 Vancomycin 250 mg Blister pack of 20 47781 - 730 - 02 Bottle pack of 50 47781 - 730 - 50 Bottle pack of 100 47781 - 730 - 01 * Equivalent to vancomycin .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USPControlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Severe Dermatologic Reactions Advise patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations .
Instruct patients to stop taking vancomycin hydrochloride capsule immediately and promptly seek medical attention at the first signs or symptoms of skin rash , mucosal lesions or blisters [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including vancomycin hydrochloride should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When vancomycin hydrochloride is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by vancomycin hydrochloride or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Following steps required for removal of capsule from blister and also refer below pictorial instructions for easy reference .
1 .
Collect one blister from the carton .
2 .
Hold the blister as such that it faces the printed blister foil side .
3 .
Blister shall be cut from the perforation marked on the blister .
4 .
Peel the printed paper where “ PEEL TO OPEN ” is given on the blister and take the capsule out .
.
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only Manufactured by : Strides Pharma Science Limited Bengaluru - 562106 , India .
or Strides Pharma Global Pte . Ltd .
Singapore - 637610 .
Product of China Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Morristown , NJ 07960 USA Revised : 02 / 2022 NDC 47781 - 729 - 50 Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP 125 mg * * Equivalent to 125 mg vancomycin Rx only 50 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 47781 - 729 - 02 Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP 125 mg * * Equivalent to 125 mg vancomycin Rx only 20 Capsules 2 x 10 Unit Dose Packs [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 47781 - 730 - 50 Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP 250 mg * * Equivalent to 250 mg vancomycin Rx only 50 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 47781 - 730 - 02 Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP 250 mg * * Equivalent to 250 mg vancomycin Rx only 20 Capsules 2 x 10 Unit Dose Packs [ MULTIMEDIA ]
