[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredients Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne treatment Use For the management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Sunburn Alert : This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one or three times daily .
• because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive Ingredients water , alcohol denat , hamamelis virginiana ( witch hazel ) extract , glycolic acid , ammonium hydroxide , polysorbate 20 , sodium benzoate , imidazolidinyl urea , disodium EDTA Questions or comments ?
Within US 1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mL Bottle Carton proactiv ® EXTRA STRENGTH FORMULA toner 2 salicylic acid acne medication 4 FL .
OZ .
120 mL Distributed by The Proactiv Company LLC 100 N Sepulveda Blvd . , El Segundo , CA 90245 ● proactive . com Made in the USA of Foreign and Domestic Components Proactiv is a trademark of The Proactiv Company Sàrl .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
