[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL of Oral Solution contains : Diazepam ........................................................... 5 mg Each mL of IntensolTM Oral Solution ( Concentrate ) contains : Diazepam ............................................................ 5 mg Alcohol ................................................................ 19 % Inactive Ingredients : The wintergreen - spice flavored 5 mg / 5 mL Oral Solution contains bitterness modifier , citric acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavoring , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , sorbitol , and water .
The 5 mg / mL IntensolTM Oral Solution ( Concentrate ) contains alcohol , D & C Yellow No . 10 , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , succinic acid , and water .
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative .
Chemically , diazepam is 7 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - methyl - 5 - phenyl - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
It is a colorless crystalline compound , insoluble in water and has a molecular weight of 284 . 74 .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In animals diazepam appears to act on parts of the limbic system , the thalamus and hypothalamus , and induces calming effects .
Diazepam , unlike chlorpromazine and reserpine , has no demonstrable peripheral autonomic blocking action , nor does it produce extrapyramidal side effects ; however , animals treated with diazepam do have a transient ataxia at higher doses .
Diazepam was found to have transient cardiovascular depressor effects in dogs .
Long - term experiments in rats revealed no disturbances of endocrine function .
Oral LD50 of diazepam is 720 mg / kg in mice and 1240 mg / kg in rats .
Intraperitoneal administration of 400 mg / kg to a monkey resulted in death on the sixth day .
Reproduction Studies A series of rat reproduction studies was performed with diazepam in oral doses of 1 , 10 , 80 and 100 mg / kg .
At 100 mg / kg there was a decrease in the number of pregnancies and surviving offspring in these rats .
Neonatal survival of rats at doses lower than 100 mg / kg was within normal limits .
Several neonates in these rat reproduction studies showed skeletal or other defects .
Further studies in rats at doses up to and including 80 mg / kg / day did not reveal teratological effects on the offspring .
In humans , measurable blood levels of diazepam were obtained in maternal and cord blood , indicating placental transfer of the drug .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
In acute alcohol withdrawal , diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation , tremor , impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis .
Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology ( such as inflammation of the muscles or joints , or secondary to trauma ) ; spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders ( such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia ) ; athetosis ; and stiff - man syndrome .
Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders , although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy .
The effectiveness of diazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug and , because of lack of sufficient clinical experience , in children under 6 months of age .
It may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy , but is contraindicated in acute narrow angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS Diazepam is not of value in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed in lieu of appropriate treatment .
As is true of most preparations containing CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
As with other agents which have anticonvulsant activity , when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders , the possibility of an increase in the frequency and / or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication .
Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and / or severity of seizures .
Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect , patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS - depressant drugs during diazepam therapy .
Usage in Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( diazepam , meprobamate and chlordiazepoxide ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy , or intend to become pregnant , they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Management of Overdosage Manifestations of diazepam overdosage include somnolence , confusion , coma and diminished reflexes .
Respiration , pulse and blood pressure should be monitored , as in all cases of drug overdosage , although , in general , these effects have been minimal following overdosage .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with immediate gastric lavage .
Intravenous fluids should be administered and an adequate airway maintained .
Hypotension may be combated by the use of norepinephrine or metaraminol .
Dialysis is of limited value .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation , and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for re - sedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section ) .
PRECAUTIONS If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed – particularly with known compounds which may potentiate the action of diazepam such as phenothiazines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants .
The usual precautions are indicated for severely depressed patients or those in whom there is any evidence of latent depression ; particularly the recognition that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
In elderly and debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 2 mg to 2 1 / 2 mg once or twice daily , initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
The clearance of diazepam and certain other benzodiazepines can be delayed in association with Tagamet ( cimetidine ) administration .
The clinical significance of this is unclear .
Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects most commonly reported were drowsiness , fatigue and ataxia .
Infrequently encountered were confusion , constipation , depression , diplopia , dysarthria , headache , hypotension , incontinence , jaundice , changes in libido , nausea , changes in salivation , skin rash , slurred speech , tremor , urinary retention , vertigo and blurred vision .
Paradoxical reactions such as acute hyperexcited states , anxiety , hallucinations , increased muscle spasticity , insomnia , rage , sleep disturbances and stimulation have been reported ; should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
Because of isolated reports of neutropenia and jaundice , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable during long - term therapy .
Minor changes in EEG patterns , usually low - voltage fast activity , have been observed in patients during and after diazepam therapy and are of no known significance .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Diazepam Oral Solution and IntensolTM Oral Solution ( Concentrate ) are classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( e . g . , convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of diazepam .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuance should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving diazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect .
While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients , there will be some who may require higher doses .
In such cases dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects .
Adults : Usual Daily Dosage Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety .
Depending upon severity of symptoms – 2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily .
Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal .
10 mg , 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours , reducing to 5 mg , 3 or 4 times daily as needed .
Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm .
2 mg to 10 mg , 3 or 4 times daily .
Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders .
2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily .
Geriatric Patients or in the presence of debilitating disease .
2 mg to 2 1 / 2 mg , 1 or 2 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated .
Children : Because of varied responses to CNS - acting drugs , initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required .
Not for use in children under 6 months .
1 mg to 2 1 / 2 mg , 3 or 4 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated .
Proper Use of an Intensol ™ An Intensol is a concentrated oral solution as compared to standard oral liquid medications .
It is recommended that an Intensol be mixed with liquid or semi - solid food such as water , juices , soda or soda - like beverages , applesauce and puddings .
Use only the calibrated dropper provided with this product .
Draw into the dropper the amount prescribed for a single dose .
Then squeeze the dropper contents into a liquid or semi - solid food .
Stir the liquid or food gently for a few seconds .
The Intensol formulation blends quickly and completely .
The entire amount of the mixture , of drug and liquid or drug and food , should be consumed immediately .
Do not store for future use .
DIAZEPAM ORAL SOLUTION , CIV , 2 mg per 2 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
