LIVOSTIN ® 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) DESCRIPTION LIVOSTIN ™ 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) is a selective histamine H1 - receptor antagonist for topical ophthalmic use .
Each mL contains 0 . 54 mg levocabastine hydrochloride equivalent to 0 . 5 mg levocabastine ; 0 . 15 mg benzalkonium chloride ; propylene glycol ; polysorbate 80 ; dibasic sodium phosphate , anhydrous ; monobasic sodium phosphate , monohydrate ; disodium edetate ; hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ; and purified water .
It has a pH of 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 .
The chemical name for levocabastine hydrochloride is ( – ) - trans - 1 - [ cis - 4 - Cyano - 4 - ( p - fluorophenyl ) cyclohexyl ] - 3 - methyl - 4 - phenylisonipecotic acid monohydrochloride , and is represented by the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ● HCl [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Levocabastine is a potent , selective histamine H1 - antagonist .
Antigen challenge studies performed two and four hours after initial drug instillation indicated activity was maintained for at least two hours .
In an environmental study , LIVOSTIN ™ 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) instilled four times daily was shown to be significantly more effective than its vehicle in reducing ocular itching associated with seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
After instillation in the eye , levocabastine is systemically absorbed .
However , the amount of systemically absorbed levocabastine after therapeutic ocular doses is low ( mean plasma concentrations in the range of 1 - 2 ng / mL ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LIVOSTIN ™ 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) is indicated for the temporary relief of the signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of its components .
It should not be used while soft contact lenses are being worn .
WARNING For topical use only .
Not for injection .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and suspension , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Do not use if the suspension has discolored .
Store at controlled room temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Levocabastine was not carcinogenic in male or female rats or in male mice when administered in the diet for up to 24 months .
In female mice , levocabastine doses of 5 , 000 and 21 , 500 times the maximum recommended ocular human use level resulted in an increased incidence of pituitary gland adenoma and mammary gland adenocarcinoma possibly produced by increased prolactin levels .
The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown with regard to the interspecies differences in prolactin physiology and the very low plasma concentrations of levocabastine following ocular administration .
Mutagenic potential was not demonstrated for levocabastine when tested in Ames ’ Salmonella reversion test or in Escherichia coli , Drosophila melanogaster , a mouse Dominant Lethal Assay or in rat Micronucleus test .
In reproduction studies in rats , levocabastine showed no effects on fertility at oral doses of 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 , 300 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose ) .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Levocabastine has been shown to be teratogenic ( polydactyly ) in rats when given in doses 16 , 500 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose .
Teratogenicity ( polydactyly , hydrocephaly , brachygnathia ) , embryotoxicity , and maternal toxicity were observed in rats at 66 , 000 times the maximum recommended ocular human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Levocabastine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Based on determinations of levocabastine in breast milk after ophthalmic administration of the drug to one nursing woman , it was calculated that the daily dose of levocabastine in the infant was about 0 . 5 µg .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse experiences reported with the use of LIVOSTIN ™ 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) were mild , transient stinging and burning ( 29 % ) and headache ( 5 % ) .
Other adverse experiences reported in approximately 1 - 3 % of patients treated with LIVOSTIN ™ were visual disturbances , dry mouth , fatigue , pharyngitis , eye pain / dryness , somnolence , red eyes , lacrimation / discharge , cough , nausea , rash / erythema , eyelid edema , and dyspnea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
The usual dose is one drop instilled in affected eyes four times per day .
HOW SUPPLIED LIVOSTIN ™ 0 . 05 % ( levocabastine hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension ) , 2 . 5 mL , 5 mL , and 10 mL is provided in white , polyethylene dropper tip squeeze bottles .
Keep tightly closed when not in use .
Do not use if the suspension has discolored .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
NDC 58768 - 610 - 10 ( 10 . 0 mL ) NDC 58768 - 610 - 05 ( 5 . 0 mL ) NDC 58768 - 610 - 99 ( 2 . 5 mL ) Rx Only Levocabastine hydrochloride is an original product of Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc .
Mfd .
by OMJ Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , San Germán , P . R . , 00683 for : Novartis Ophthalmics , Duluth , GA 30097 5035 - E
