DESCRIPTION Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is a reddish - brown , odorless , slightly bitter , crystalline powder .
It has a specific local analgesic effect in the urinary tract , promptly relieving burning and pain .
Following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenazopyridine HCl tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : Croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , polyvinvyl alcohol , polyvinylpyrrolidone , pregelatinized starch , talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is excreted in the urine where it exerts a topical analgesic effect on the mucosa of the urinary tract .
This action helps to relieve pain , burning , urgency and frequency .
The precise mechanism of action is unknown .
PHARMACOKINETICS The pharmacokinetic properties of phenazopyridine hydrochloride have not been determined .
Phenazopyridine and its metabolites are rapidly excreted by the kidneys .
In a small number of healthy subjects , 90 % of a 600 mg / day oral dose of phenazopyridine hydrochloride was eliminated in the urine in 24 hours , 41 % as unchanged drug and 49 % as metabolites .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenazopyridine HCl is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain , burning , urgency frequency , and other discomforts arising from irritation of the mucosa of the lower urinary tract caused by infection , trauma , surgery , endoscopic procedures , or the passage of sounds or catheters .
The use of phenazopyridine for relief of symptoms should not delay definitive diagnosis and treatment of causative conditions .
The drug should be used for symptomatic relief of pain and not as a substitute for specific surgery or antimicrobial therapy .
Phenazopyridine is compatible with antimicrobial therapy and can help relieve pain and discomfort during the interval before antimicrobial therapy controls the infection .
Treatment of a urinary tract infection with phenazopyridine should not exceed 2 days .
There is no evidence that the combined administration of phenazopyridine and an antimicrobial provides greater benefit than administration of the antimicrobial alone after 2 days .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenazopyridine is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe liver disease , severe hepatitis or pyelonephritis of pregnancy and in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or its ingredients .
It should be used cautiously in the presence of GI disturbances .
WARNINGS Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals ( IARC 1980 , 1982 , 1987 , NCI 1978 ) .
When administered in the diet , phenazopyridine hydrochloride increased the incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in female mice and adenomas and adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in rats of both sexes .
There is inadequate evidence for the carcinogenicity of phenazopyridine hydrochloride in humans ( IARC 1987 ) .
In one limited epidemiological study , no significant excess of any cancer was observed among 2 , 214 patients who received phenazopyridine hydrochloride and were followed for a minimum of 3 years .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL The patient should be advised that phenazopyridine produces an orange to red color in the urine and feces , and may cause staining .
Phenazopyridine may cause discoloration of body fluids and staining of contact lenses has been reported .
A yellowish color of the skin or sclera may indicate accumulation of phenazopyridine resulting from impaired renal function and necessitates discontinuance of the drug .
It should be noted that a decline in renal function is common in elderly patients .
Phenazopyridine may mask pathological conditions and interfere with laboratory test values using colorimetric , spectrophotometric or fluorometric analysis methods .
Cautious use in patients with G - 6 - PD deficiency is advised since these patients are susceptible to oxidative hemolysis and may have greater potential to develop hemolytic anemia .
Information for Patients The patient should be advised to take phenazopyridine with or following food or after eating a snack to reduce stomach upset .
The patients should be aware that phenazopyridine causes a reddish orange discoloration of the urine and feces , and may stain clothing .
Phenazopyridine may cause discoloration of body fluids and staining of contact lenses has been reported .
There have been reports of teeth discoloration when the product has been broken or held in the mouth prior to swallowing .
Patients should be instructed to take phenazopyridine for only 2 days if an antibacterial agent is administered concurrently for the treatment of a urinary tract infection .
If symptoms persist beyond those 2 days , the patient should be instructed to contact his or her physician .
LABORATORY TESTS Phenazopyridine may interfere with laboratory test values using colorimetric , photometric or fluorometric analysis methods .
Altered urine laboratory test values may include ketone ( sodium nitroprusside ) , bilirubin ( foam test , talc - disk - Fouchet - spot test , Franklin ' s tablet - Fouchet test , p - nitrobenzene diazonium p - toluene sulfonate reagent ) , diacetic acid ( Gerhardt ferric chloride test ) , free hydrochloric acid , glucose ( glucose oxidase tests ) , 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids ( modified Glenn - Nelson ) , 17 - ketosteroids ( Holtorff Koch modification of Zimmerman ) , porphyrins , albumin ( discolors bromophenol blue test areas of commercial reagent strips , nitric acid ring test ) , phenolsulfophthalein , urobilinogen ( color interference with Ehrlich ' s reagent ) , and urinalysis ( spectrophotometric or color - based tests ) .
Phenazopyridine also imparts an orange - red color to stools which may interfere with color tests .
DRUG INTERACTIONS The interaction of phenazopyridine with other drugs has not been studied in a systematic manner .
However , the medical literature to date suggests that no significant interactions have been reported .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY The interaction of phenazopyridine with other drugs has not been studied in a systematic manner .
However , the medical literature to date suggests that no significant interactions have been reported .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY B Reproductive studies with phenazopyridine ( in combination with sulfacytine ) in rats given up to 110 mg / kg / day and in rabbits given up to 39 mg / kg / day during organogenesis revealed no evidence of harm to offspring .
One prospective study in humans demonstrated that phenazopyridine traverses the placenta into the fetal compartment .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , phenazopyridine should be used in pregnant women only if the benefit clearly outweighs the risk .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether phenazopyridine or its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of drug therapy to the mother .
CHILDREN Adequate and well - controlled studies have not been performed in the pediatric population .
No pediatric - specific problems have been documented .
ADVERSE REACTIONS THE FOLLOWING ADVERSE EVENTS HAVE BEEN REPORTED : CNS : headache .
GASTROINTESTINAL : nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
DERMATOLOGIC AND HYPERSENSITIVITY : rash , pruritus , discoloration , anaphylactoid - like reaction and hypersensitivity hepatitis .
HEMATOLOGIC : methemoglobinemia , hemolytic anemia , potential hemolytic agent in G - 6 - PD deficiency , sulfhemoglobinemia .
OTHER : visual disturbances , renal and hepatic toxicity usually associated with overdose , renal calculi , jaundice , discoloration of body fluids and aseptic meningitis .
OVERDOSAGE SYMPTOMS : Exceeding the recommended dose in patients with normal renal function or administering the recommended dose to patients with impaired renal function ( common in elderly patients ) may lead to increased serum levels and toxic reactions .
Methemoglobinemia generally follows a massive , acute overdose .
Methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg / dose given i . v . as a 1 % solution as needed , should cause prompt reduction of the methemoglobinemia and disappearance of the cyanosis which is an aid in diagnosis .
Oxidative Heinz body hemolytic anemia also may occur , and “ bite cells ” ( degmacytes ) may be present in a chronic overdosage situation .
Red blood cell G - 6 - PD deficiency may predispose to hemolysis ; however , hemolysis may occur at normal doses in patients with G - 6 - PD Mediterranean .
Renal toxicity and occasional failure and hepatic impairment may also occur .
TREATMENT : Treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : 200 mg 3 times daily after meals .
When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection , the administration of phenazopyridine should not exceed 2 days .
If symptoms persist , the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED 100 mg tablets : Supplied in bottles of 100 .
Deep brown to maroon colored , round , film coated tablets debossed “ 801 ” on one side and plain on the other .
NDC # 42192 - 801 - 01 .
200 mg tablets : Supplied in bottles of 100 .
Deep brown to maroon colored , round , film coated tablets debossed “ 802 ” on one side and plain on the other .
NDC # 42192 - 802 - 01 .
Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
RX ONLY Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 Rev 0316 - 02 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42192 - 801 - 01 RX Only PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE ORAL TABLETS 100 mg Acella 100 tablets Pharmaceuticals , LLC EACH TABLET CONTAINS : Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride ....................................... 100 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Croscarmellose sodium , Magnesium stearate , Maize ( corn ) starch , Microcrystalline cellulose , Pregelatinized starch , Polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP ) , Silicon dioxide .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : 200 mg ( 2 tablets ) three times a day after meals , or as directed by your physician .
Dispense contents with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) and in a tight container as defined in the USP .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 Rev 0316 - 02 All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
See package insert for more details .
342192801011 Lot : Exp .
Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42192 - 802 - 01 RX Only PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE ORAL TABLETS 200 mg Acella 100 tablets Pharmaceuticals , LLC EACH TABLET CONTAINS : Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride ....................................... 200 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Croscarmellose sodium , Magnesium stearate , Maize ( corn ) starch , Microcrystalline cellulose , Pregelatinized starch , Polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP ) , Silicon dioxide .
USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : 200 mg three times a day after meals , or as directed by your physician .
Dispense contents with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) and in a tight container as defined in the USP .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 Rev 0316 - 02 All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
See package insert for more details .
342192802018 Lot : Exp .
Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
