Active ingredients Homosalate 5 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ apply liberally { and evenly } 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ reapply at least every 2 hours ■ use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , tocopheryl acetate , steareth - 21 , cyclopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , stearyl alcohol , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , steareth - 2 , disodium EDTA , oleth - 3 phosphate , caprylyl glycol , hydroxyacetophenone , phenoxyethanol Side panel slaims Light non - greasy formula Dermatologist tested Wo n't Clog Pores Fragrance Free When used as directed , Meijer Beauty Lotion promotes hydration and helps maintain healthy looking skin .
Broad Spectrum SPF 15 provides daily protection against the sun .
All Day Moisturizer - This formula with antioxidant vitamin E plus aloe helps promote and maintain healthy - looking skin .
Back panel claims May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete UV365 Daily Moisturizer with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sensitive Quality Guarantee www . meijer . com / satisfaction Questions 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Dist .
By Meijer Distribution , INC .
Grand Rapids , MI 49544 www . meijer . com principal panel display meijer Compare to Olay Complete UV365 Daily Moisturizer with Sunscreen Sensitive * beauty lotion with sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 For sensitive skin UVA / UVB Protection Antioxidants Vitamin E Plus Aloe Frangrance Free 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
