WARNING Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels .
Facilities for prompt and accurate serum lithium determinations should be available before initiating therapy .
DESCRIPTION Lithium carbonate is a white , light , alkaline powder with molecular formula Li2CO3 and molecular weight 73 . 89 .
Lithium is an element of the alkali - metal group with atomic number 3 , atomic weight 6 . 94 , and an emission line at 671 nm on the flame photometer .
Inert ingredients are : Blue 1 Lake ; dibasic calcium phosphate ; magnesium stearate ; polyethylene glycol ; sodium lauryl sulfate ; starch ; Yellow 5 Lake .
ACTIONS Preclinical studies have shown that lithium alters sodium transport in nerve and muscle cells and effects a shift toward intraneuronal metabolism of catecholamines , but the specific biochemical mechanism of lithium action in mania is unknown .
INDICATIONS Lithium carbonate is indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of manic - depressive illness .
Maintenance therapy prevents or diminishes the intensity of subsequent episodes in those manic - depressive patients with a history of mania .
Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech , motor hyperactivity , reduced need for sleep , flight of ideas , grandiosity , elation , poor judgment , aggressiveness , and possibly hostility .
When given to a patient experiencing a manic episode , lithium may produce a normalization of symptomatology within 1 to 3 weeks .
WARNINGS Lithium should generally not be given to patients with significant renal or cardiovascular disease , severe debilitation or dehydration , or sodium depletion , and to patients receiving diuretics , since the risk of lithium toxicity is very high in such patients .
If the psychiatric indication is life - threatening , and if such a patient fails to respond to other measures , lithium treatment may be undertaken with extreme caution , including daily serum lithium determinations and adjustment to the usually low doses ordinarily tolerated by these individuals .
In such instances , hospitalization is a necessity .
Chronic lithium therapy may be associated with diminution of renal concentrating ability , occasionally presenting as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , with polyuria and polydipsia .
Such patients should be carefully managed to avoid dehydration with resulting lithium retention and toxicity .
This condition is usually reversible when lithium is discontinued .
Morphologic changes with glomerular and interstitial fibrosis and nephron atrophy have been reported in patients on chronic lithium therapy .
Morphologic changes have also been seen in manic - depressive patients never exposed to lithium .
The relationship between renal functional and morphologic changes and their association with lithium therapy have not been established .
When kidney function is assessed , for baseline data prior to starting lithium therapy or thereafter , routine urinalysis and other tests may be used to evaluate tubular function ( e . g . , urine specific gravity or osmolality following a period of water deprivation , or 24 hour urine volume ) and glomerular function ( e . g . , serum creatinine or creatinine clearance ) .
During lithium therapy , progressive or sudden changes in renal function , even within the normal range , indicate the need for reevaluation of treatment .
Lithium therapy has been reported in some cases to be associated with morphologic changes in the kidneys .
The relationship between such changes and renal function has not been established .
An encephalopathic syndrome ( characterized by weakness , lethargy , fever , tremulousness and confusion , extrapyramidal symptoms , leukocytosis , elevated serum enzymes , BUN and FBS ) followed by irreversible brain damage has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus haloperidol .
A causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and haloperidol has not been established ; however , patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear .
The possibility of similar adverse interactions with other antipsychotic medication exists .
Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Outpatients and their families should be warned that the patient must discontinue lithium carbonate therapy and contact his physician if such clinical signs of lithium toxicity as diarrhea , vomiting , tremor , mild ataxia , drowsiness , or muscular weakness occur .
Lithium carbonate may impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Caution patients about activities requiring alertness ( e . g . , operating vehicles or machinery ) .
Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , neuromuscular blocking agents should be given with caution to patients receiving lithium .
Usage in Pregnancy Adverse effects on nidation in rats , embryo viability in mice , and metabolism in vitro of rat testis and human spermatozoa have been attributed to lithium , as have teratogenicity in sub - mammalian species and cleft palates in mice .
Studies in rats , rabbits , and monkeys have shown no evidence of lithium - induced teratology .
In humans , lithium carbonate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies , especially Ebstein ' s anomaly .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
There are lithium birth registries in the United States and elsewhere ; however there is at the present time insufficient data to determine the effects of lithium carbonate on human fetuses .
Therefore , at this point , lithium should not be used in pregnancy , especially the first trimester , unless in the opinion of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Usage in Nursing Mothers Lithium is excreted in human milk .
Nursing should not be undertaken during lithium therapy except in rare and unusual circumstances where , in the view of the physician , the potential benefits to the mother outweigh possible hazards to the child .
Usage in Children Since information regarding the safety and effectiveness of lithium carbonate in children under 12 years of age is not available , its use in such patients is not recommended at this time .
There has been a report of a transient syndrome of acute dystonia and hyperreflexia occurring in a 15 kg child who ingested 300 mg of lithium carbonate .
PRECAUTIONS The ability to tolerate lithium is greater during the acute manic phase and decreases when manic symptoms subside ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug Interactions Caution should be used when lithium and diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors are used concomitantly because sodium loss may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity .
When such combinations are used , the lithium dosage may need to be decreased , and more frequent monitoring of lithium plasma levels is recommended .
The distribution space of lithium approximates that of total body water .
Lithium is primarily excreted in urine with insignificant excretion in feces .
Renal excretion of lithium is proportional to its plasma concentration .
The half - life of elimination of lithium is approximately 24 hours .
Lithium decreases sodium reabsorption by the renal tubules which could lead to sodium depletion .
Therefore , it is essential for the patient to maintain a normal diet , including salt , and an adequate fluid intake ( 2500 – 3000 ml ) at least during the initial stabilization period .
Decreased tolerance to lithium has been reported to ensue from protracted sweating or diarrhea and , if such occur , supplemental fluid and salt should be administered .
In addition to sweating and diarrhea , concomitant infection with elevated temperatures may also necessitate a temporary reduction or cessation of medication .
Previously existing underlying thyroid disorders do not necessarily constitute a contraindication to lithium treatment ; where hypothyroidism exists , careful monitoring of thyroid function during lithium stabilization and maintenance allows for correction of changing thyroid parameters , if any ; where hypothyroidism occurs during lithium stabilization and maintenance , supplemental thyroid treatment may be used .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the over - all incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Indomethacin and piroxicam have been reported to increase significantly , steady state plasma lithium levels .
In some cases lithium toxicity has resulted from such interactions .
There is also some evidence that other nonsteroidal , anti - inflammatory agents may have a similar effect .
When such combinations are used , increased plasma lithium level monitoring is recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions are seldom encountered at serum lithium levels below 1 . 5 mEq .
/ l . , except in the occasional patient sensitive to lithium .
Mild to moderate toxic reactions may occur at levels from 1 . 5 – 2 . 5 mEq .
/ l . , and moderate to severe reactions may be seen at levels from 2 . 0 – 2 . 5 mEq .
/ l . , depending upon individual response to the drug .
Fine hand tremor , polyuria , and mild thirst may occur during initial therapy for the acute manic phase , and may persist throughout treatment .
Transient and mild nausea and general discomfort may also appear during the first few days of lithium administration .
These side effects are an inconvenience rather than a disabling condition , and usually subside with continued treatment or a temporary reduction or cessation of dosage .
If persistent , a cessation of dosage is indicated .
Diarrhea , vomiting , drowsiness , muscular weakness , and lack of coordination may be early signs of lithium intoxication , and can occur at lithium levels below 2 . 0 mEq .
/ l .
At higher levels , giddiness , ataxia , blurred vision , tinnitus , and a large output of dilute urine may be seen .
Serum lithium levels above 3 . 0 mEq .
/ l . may produce a complex clinical picture involving multiple organs and organ systems .
Serum lithium levels should not be permitted to exceed 2 . 0 mEq .
/ l . during the acute treatment phase .
The following reactions have been reported and appear to be related to serum lithium levels , including levels within the therapeutic range : • Neurological : Cases of pseudotumor cerebri ( increased intracranial pressure and papilledema ) have been reported with lithium use .
If undetected , this condition may result in enlargement of the blind spot , constriction of visual fields and eventual blindness due to optic atrophy .
Lithium should be discontinued , if clinically possible , if this syndrome occurs .
• Neuromuscular : tremor , muscle hyperirritability ( fasciculations , twitching , clonic movements of whole limbs ) , ataxia , choreo - athetotic movements , hyperactive deep tendon reflexes .
• Central Nervous System : blackout spells , epileptiform seizures , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , incontinence of urine or feces , somnolence , psychomotor retardation , restlessness , confusion , stupor , coma , acute dystonia , and downbeat nystagmus .
• Cardiovascular : cardiac arrhythmia , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse .
• Gastrointestinal : anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
• Genitourinary : albuminuria , oliguria , polyuria , glycosuria .
• Dermatologic : drying and thinning of hair , anesthesia of skin , chronic folliculitis , xerosis cutis , alopecia , and exacerbation of psoriasis .
• Autonomic Nervous System : blurred vision , dry mouth .
• Thyroid Abnormalities : Euthyroid goiter and / or hypothyroidism ( including myxedema ) accompanied by lower T3 and T4 .
I131 iodine uptake may be elevated .
( See Precautions . )
Paradoxically , rare cases of hyperthyroidism have been reported .
• EEG .
Changes : diffuse slowing , widening of frequency spectrum , potentiation and disorganization of background rhythm .
• EKG .
Changes : reversible flattening , isoelectricity or inversion of T - waves .
• Miscellaneous : fatigue , lethargy , tendency to sleep , dehydration , weight loss , transient scotomata .
Miscellaneous reactions unrelated to dosage are : transient electroencephalographic and electrocardiographic changes , leucocytosis , headache , diffuse non - toxic goiter with or without hypothyroidism , transient hyperglycemia , generalized pruritus with or without rash , cutaneous ulcers , albuminuria , worsening of organic brain syndromes , excessive weight gain , edematous swelling of ankles or wrists , and thirst or polyuria , sometimes resembling diabetes insipidus , and metallic taste .
A single report has been received of the development of painful discoloration of fingers and toes and coldness of the extremities within one day of the starting of treatment of lithium .
The mechanism through which these symptoms ( resembling Raynaud ' s Syndrome ) developed is not known .
Recovery followed discontinuance .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Mania Optimal patient response to lithium carbonate usually can be established and maintained with 600 mg t . i . d .
Such doses will normally produce an effective serum lithium level ranging between 1 . 0 and 1 . 5 mEq .
/ l . Dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
Regular monitoring of the patient ' s clinical state and of serum lithium levels is necessary .
Serum levels should be determined twice per week during the acute phase , and until the serum level and clinical condition of the patient have been stabilized .
Long term Control The desirable lithium levels are 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mEq .
/ l . Dosage will vary from one individual to another , but usually 300 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d will maintain this level .
Serum lithium levels in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every two months .
Patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum levels of 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 mEq .
/ l . Elderly patients often respond to reduced dosage , and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum levels ordinarily tolerated by other patients .
N . B . Blood samples for serum lithium determinations should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable ( i . e . , 8 – 12 hours after the previous dose ) .
Total reliance must not be placed on serum levels alone .
Accurate patient evaluation requires both clinical and laboratory analysis .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic levels for lithium are close to the therapeutic levels .
It is therefore important that patients and their families be cautioned to watch for early toxic symptoms and to discontinue the drug and inform the physician should they occur .
Toxic symptoms are listed in detail under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Treatment No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known .
Early symptoms of lithium toxicity can usually be treated by reduction or cessation of dosage of the drug and resumption of the treatment at a lower dose after 24 to 48 hours .
In severe cases of lithium poisoning , the first and foremost goal of treatment consists of elimination of this ion from the organism .
Treatment is essentially the same as that used in barbiturate poisoning : 1 ) lavage , 2 ) correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , and 3 ) regulation of kidney functioning .
Urea , mannitol , and aminophylline all produce significant increases in lithium excretion .
Hemodialysis is an effective and rapid means of removing the ion from the severely toxic patient .
Infection prophylaxis , regular chest X - rays , and preservation of adequate respiration are essential .
HOW SUPPLIED Lithane ( lithium carbonate ) is available as scored tablets containing 300 mg of lithium carbonate in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0026 - 2951 - 51 ) , and 1000 ( NDC 0026 - 2951 - 54 ) .
Manufactured for Miles Pharmaceuticals Division of Miles Laboratories , Inc .
West Haven , Connecticut 06516 USA by Pfizer Inc . , New York , N . Y . 10017 LAB - 0140 - 2 . 0
