Rx Only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of minocycline hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs , minocycline hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Minocycline hydrochloride , a semisynthetic derivative of tetracycline , is 4 , 7 - Bis ( dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - tetrahydroxy - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrochloride .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C23H27N3O7 . HCl M . W . 493 . 94 Each minocycline hydrochloride capsule , for oral administration , contains the equivalent of 50 mg , 75 mg or 100 mg of minocycline .
In addition each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : magnesium stearate and starch ( corn ) .
The 50 mg , 75 mg and 100 mg capsule shells contain : gelatin , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
The 75 mg and 100 mg capsule shells also contain : black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following oral administration of minocycline hydrochloride capsules , absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is rapid .
Maximum serum concentrations following a single dose of minocycline hydrochloride to normal fasting adult volunteers were attained in 1 to 4 hours .
The serum half - life in normal volunteers ranges from approximately 11 hours to 22 hours .
When minocycline hydrochloride capsules were given concomitantly with a meal which included dairy products , the extent of absorption of minocycline hydrochloride capsules was not noticeably influenced .
The peak plasma concentrations were slightly decreased and delayed by one hour when administered with food , compared to dosing under fasting conditions .
In previous studies with other minocycline dosage forms , the minocycline serum half - life ranged from 11 to 16 hours in 7 patients with hepatic dysfunction , and from 18 to 69 hours in 5 patients with renal dysfunction .
The urinary and fecal recovery of minocycline when administered to 12 normal volunteers is one - half to one - third that of other tetracyclines .
Microbiology The tetracyclines are primarily bacteriostatic and are thought to exert their antimicrobial effect by the inhibition of protein synthesis .
The tetracyclines , including minocycline , have a similar antimicrobial spectrum of activity against a wide range of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
Cross - resistance of these organisms to tetracyclines is common .
Minocycline has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : AEROBIC GRAM - POSITIVE MICROORGANISMS Because many strains of the following gram - positive microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility testing are especially recommended .
Tetracycline antibiotics should not be used for streptococcal diseases unless the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible .
Tetracyclines are not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection .
• Bacillus anthracis † • Listeria monocytogenes † • Staphylococcus aureus • Streptococcus pneumoniae AEROBIC GRAM - NEGATIVE MICROORGANISMS • Bartonella bacilliformis • Brucella species • Calymmatobacterium granulomatis • Campylobacter fetus • Francisella tularensis • Haemophilus ducreyi • Vibrio cholerae • Yersinia pestis Because many strains of the following groups of gram - negative microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines , culture and susceptibility tests are especially recommended : • Acinetobacter species • Enterobacter aerogenes • Escherichia coli • Haemophilus influenzae • Klebsiella species • Neisseria gonorrhoeae † • Neisseria meningitidis † • Shigella species " OTHER " MICROORGANISMS • Actinomyces species † • Borrelia recurrentis • Chlamydia psittaci • Chlamydia trachomatis • Clostridium species † • Entamoeba species • Fusobacterium nucletum ssp .
fusiforme † • Mycobacterium marinum • Mycoplasma pneumonia • Propionibacterium acnes • Rickettsiae • Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum † • Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue † • Ureaplasma urealyticum † When penicillin is contraindicated , tetracyclines are alternative drugs in the treatment of infections caused by the cited microorganisms .
Susceptibility tests Susceptibility testing should be performed with tetracycline since it predicts susceptibility to minocycline .
However , certain organisms ( e . g . , some staphylococci , and Acinetobacter ssp . )
may be more susceptible to minocycline and doxycycline than to tetracycline .
Dilution techniques Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method1 , 3 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of tetracycline powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For testing aerobic gram - negative microorganisms ( Enterobacteriaceae ) , Acinetobacter ssp .
and Staphylococcus aureus .
MIC ( µg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 4 . 0 Susceptible ( S ) 8 . 0 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 16 . 0 Resistant ( R ) For testing Haemophilus influenzaea and Streptococcus pneumoniaeb : MIC ( µg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 2 . 0 Susceptible ( S ) 4 . 0 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 8 . 0 Resistant ( R ) a These interpretative standards are applicable only to broth microdilution susceptibility testing with Haemophilus influenzae using Haemophilus Test Medium .
1 b These interpretative standards are applicable only to broth microdilution susceptibility testing using cation - adjusted Muller - Hinton broth with 2 – 5 % lysed horse blood .
1 For testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaec .
MIC ( µg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 0 . 25 Susceptible ( S ) 0 . 5 – 1 . 0 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 2 . 0 Resistant ( R ) c These interpretative standards are applicable only to agar dilution susceptibility testing using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplements .
1 A report of " Susceptible " indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of " Intermediate " indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of " Resistant " indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable ; other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard tetracycline powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC Range ( µg / mL ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 0 . 5 – 2 . 0 Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212 8 . 0 – 32 . 0 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 25 – 1 . 0 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 4 . 0 – 32 . 0 Streptococcus pneumoniae ATCC 49619 0 . 12 – 0 . 5 Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 0 . 25 – 1 . 0 Diffusion techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure2 , 3 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30µg tetracycline ( class disk ) or 30µg minocycline to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to minocycline .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30µg tetracycline or minocycline disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For testing aerobic gram - negative microorganisms ( Enterobacteriaceae ) Acinetobacter ssp .
and Staphylococcus aureus : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 19 Susceptible ( S ) 15 – 18 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) For testing Haemophilus influenzaed : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 29 Susceptible ( S ) 26 – 28 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 25 Resistant ( R ) d These zone diameter standards are applicable only to susceptibility testing with Haemophilus influenzae using Haemophilus Test Medium and a 30µg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaee : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 38 Susceptible ( S ) 31 – 37 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 30 Resistant ( R ) e These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing using GC agar and 1 % growth supplements , and a 30µg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Streptococcus pneumoniaef : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 23 Susceptible ( S ) 19 – 22 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 18 Resistant ( R ) f These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing using Muller - Hinton agar adjusted with 5 % sheep blood and a 30µg tetracycline disk . 2 For testing Vibrio choleraeg : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 19 Susceptible ( S ) 15 – 18 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) g These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing performed with a 30µg tetracycline disk . 2 Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for tetracycline .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30µg tetracycline or minocycline disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter Range ( mm ) Tetracycline Minocycline Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 18 – 25 19 – 25 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 24 – 30 25 – 30 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 14 – 22 Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 30 – 42 Streptococcus pneumoniae ATCC 49619 27 – 31 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Minocycline Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms : • Rocky Mountain spotted fever , typhus fever and the typhus group , Q fever , rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae • Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae • Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis • Psittacosis ( Ornithosis ) due to Chlamydia psittaci • Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated , as judged by immunofluorescence • Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis • Nongonococcal urethritis , endocervical , or rectal infections in adults caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum or Chlamydia trachomatis • Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis • Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi • Plague due to Yersinia pestis • Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis • Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae • Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus Brucellosis due to Brucella species ( in conjunction with streptomycin ) • Brucellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis • Granuloma inguinale caused by Calymmatobacterium granulomatis • Minocycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram - negative microorganisms , when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : • Escherichia coli • Enterobacter aerogenes • Shigella species • Acinetobacter species • Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae • Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species Minocycline hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram - positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug : • Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae • Skin and skin structure infections caused by Straphylococcus aureus .
( Note : Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection . )
When penicillin is contraindicated , minocycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections : • Uncomplicated urethritis in men due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae and for the treatment of other gonococcal infections when penicillin is contraindicated .
• Infections in women caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae • Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum • Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue • Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes • Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis • Vincent ' s infection caused by Fusobacteruim fusiforme • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii • Infections caused by Clostridium species In acute intestinal amebiasis , minocycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides .
In severe acne , minocycline may be useful adjunctive therapy .
Oral minocycline is indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic carriers of Neisseriameningitidis to eliminate meningococci from the nasopharynx .
In order to preserve the usefulness of minocycline in the treatment of asymptomatic meningococcal carriers , diagnostic laboratory procedures , including serotyping and susceptibility testing , should be performed to establish the carrier state and the correct treatment .
It is recommended that the prophylactic use of minocycline be reserved for situations in which the risk of meningococcal meningitis is high .
Oral minocycline is not indicated for the treatment of meningococcal infection .
Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted , limited clinical data show that oral minocycline hydrochloride has been used successfully in the treatment of infections caused by Mycobacteriummarinum .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of minocycline hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs , minocycline hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines .
WARNINGS MINOCYCLINE , LIKE OTHER TETRACYCLINE - CLASS ANTIBIOTICS , CAN CAUSE FETAL HARM WHEN ADMINISTERED TO A PREGNANT WOMAN .
IF ANY TETRACYCLINE IS USED DURING PREGNANCY OR IF THE PATIENT BECOMES PREGNANT WHILE TAKING THESE DRUGS , THE PATIENT SHOULD BE APPRISED OF THE POTENTIAL HAZARD TO THE FETUS .
THE USE OF DRUGS OF THE TETRACYCLINE CLASS DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT ( LAST HALF OF PREGNANCY , INFANCY , AND CHILDHOOD TO THE AGE OF 8 YEARS ) MAY CAUSE PERMANENT DISCOLORATION OF THE TEETH ( YELLOW - GRAY - BROWN ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
TETRACYCLINE DRUGS , THEREFORE , SHOULD NOT BE USED DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT UNLESS OTHER DRUGS ARE NOT LIKELY TO BE EFFECTIVE OR ARE CONTRAINDICATED .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every six hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
The anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , lower than usual total doses are indicated , and if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
This has been reported rarely with minocycline .
Central nervous system side effects including lightheadedness , dizziness , or vertigo have been reported with minocycline therapy .
Patients who experience these symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy .
These symptoms may disappear during therapy and usually disappear rapidly when the drug is discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibiotic preparations , use of this drug may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , the antibiotic should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) in adults has been associated with the use of tetracyclines .
The usual clinical manifestations are headache and blurred vision .
Bulging fontanels have been associated with the use of tetracyclines in infants .
While both of these conditions and related symptoms usually resolve after discontinuation of tetracycline , the possibility for permanent sequelae exists .
Incision and drainage or other surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy when indicated .
Prescribing minocycline hydrochloride capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs , and treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema .
This reaction has been reported rarely with use of minocycline .
Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms ( see WARNINGS ) should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy .
Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including minocycline hydrochloride capsules should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When minocycline hydrochloride capsules are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by minocycline hydrochloride capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Laboratory Tests In long - term therapy , periodic laboratory evaluations of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal , and hepatic studies should be performed .
All patients with gonorrhea should have a serologic test for syphilis at the time of diagnosis .
Patients treated with minocycline should have a follow - up serologic test for syphilis after 3 months .
Drug Interactions Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium , and iron - containing preparations .
The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
Concurrent use of tetracyclines with oral contraceptives may render oral contraceptives less effective .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary administration of minocycline in long - term tumorigenicity studies in rats resulted in evidence of thyroid tumor production .
Minocycline has also been found to produce thyroid hyperplasia in rats and dogs .
In addition , there has been evidence of oncogenic activity in rats in studies with a related antibiotic , oxytetracycline ( i . e . , adrenal and pituitary tumors ) .
Likewise , although mutagenicity studies of minocycline have not been conducted , positive results in in vitro mammalian cell assays ( i . e . , mouse lymphoma and Chinese hamster lung cells ) have been reported for related antibiotics ( tetracycline hydrochloride and oxytetracycline ) .
Segment I ( fertility and general reproduction ) studies have provided evidence that minocycline impairs fertility in male rats .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D ( See WARNINGS ) Nonteratogenic Effects ( See WARNINGS ) Labor and Delivery The effect of tetracyclines on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers Tetracyclines are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from the tetracyclines , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use ( See WARNINGS . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Due to oral minocycline ' s virtually complete absorption , side effects to the lower bowel , particularly diarrhea , have been infrequent .
The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving tetracyclines .
Gastrointestinal Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , glossitis , dysphagia , enterocolitis , pancreatitus , inflammatory lesions ( with monilial overgrowth ) in the anogenital region , and increases in liver enzymes have been reported .
Rarely , hepatitis and liver failure have been reported .
These reactions have been caused by both the oral and the parenteral administration of tetracyclines .
Rare instances of esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients taking the tetracycline - class antibiotics in capsule and tablet form .
Most of these patients took the medication immediately before going to bed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Skin Maculopapular and erythematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported but is uncommon .
Fixed drug eruptions have been rarely reported .
Lesions occurring on the glans penis have caused balanitis .
Erythema multiforme and rarely Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been reported .
Photosensitivity is discussed above ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pigmentation of the skin and mucous membranes has been reported .
Renal toxicity Elevations in BUN have been reported and are apparently dose related ( see WARNINGS ) .
Acute renal failure has been rarely reported and , in most cases , has been reversible .
Hypersensitivity reactions Urticaria , angioneurotic edema , polyarthralgia , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid purpura , pericarditis , exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus and rarely pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia have been reported .
A lupus - like syndrome and serum sickness - like reactions also have been reported .
Blood Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and eosinophilia have been reported .
Central Nervous System Bulging fontanels in infants and benign intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) in adults ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) have been reported .
Headache has also been reported .
Other When given over prolonged periods , tetracyclines have been reported to produce brown - black microscopic discoloration of the thyroid glands .
Very rare cases of abnormal thyroid function have been reported .
Tooth discoloration in pediatric patients less than 8 years of age ( see WARNINGS ) and also , rarely , in adults has been reported .
Tinnitus and decreased hearing have been rarely reported in patients on minocycline hydrochloride .
OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures .
Minocycline is not removed in significant quantities by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES .
EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS .
Minocycline hydrochloride capsules may be taken with or without food .
( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
For Pediatric Patients Above 8 Years of Age The usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride capsules is 4 mg / kg initially followed by 2 mg / kg every 12 hours .
Adults The usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours .
Alternatively , if more frequent doses are preferred , two or four 50 mg capsules may be given initially followed by one 50 mg capsule four times daily .
Uncomplicated gonococcal infections other than urethritis and anorectal infections in men : 200 mg initially , followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of four days , with post - therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days .
In the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis in men , 100 mg every 12 hours for five days is recommended .
For the treatment of syphilis , the usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride capsules should be administered over a period of 10 to 15 days .
Close follow - up , including laboratory tests , is recommended .
In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state , the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for five days .
Mycobacterium marinum infections : Although optimal doses have not been established , 100 mg every 12 hours for 6 to 8 weeks have been used successfully in a limited number of cases .
Uncomplicated urethral , endocervical , or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum : 100 mg orally , every 12 hours for at least seven days .
Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline - class is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration .
In patients with renal impairment ( see WARNINGS ) , the total dosage should be decreased by either reducing the recommended individual doses and / or by extending the time intervals between doses .
HOW SUPPLIED DYNACIN ® ( MINOCYCLINE HCl CAPSULES , USP ) equivalent to 50 mg minocycline are opaque white capsules imprinted " 0487 " and " DYNACIN ® 50 mg " and are supplied as follows : NDC 99207 - 487 - 10 Bottles of 100 NDC 99207 - 487 - 11 Bottle of 1000 .
DYNACIN ® ( MINOCYCLINE HCl CAPSULES , USP ) equivalent to 75 mg minocycline are light gray opaque capsules imprinted " 0489 " and " DYNACIN ® 75 mg " and are supplied as follows : NDC 99207 - 489 - 10 Bottles of 100 NDC 99207 - 489 - 11 Bottle of 1000 .
DYNACIN ® ( MINOCYCLINE HCl CAPSULES , USP ) equivalent to 100 mg minocycline are opaque dark gray and opaque white capsules imprinted " 0488 " and " DYNACIN ® 100 mg " and are supplied as follows : NDC 99207 - 488 - 05 Bottles of 50 NDC 99207 - 488 - 11 Bottle of 1000 .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container with child - resistant closure .
Store at 20º – 25ºC ( 68º – 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light , moisture and excessive heat .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND TOXICOLOGY Minocycline hydrochloride has been observed to cause a dark discoloration of the thyroid in experimental animals ( rats , minipigs , dogs and monkeys ) .
In the rat , chronic treatment with minocycline hydrochloride has resulted in goiter accompanied by elevated radioactive iodine uptake , and evidence of thyroid tumor production .
Minocycline hydrochloride has also been found to produce thyroid hyperplasia in rats and dogs .
REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Fourth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M7 - A4 , Vol .
17 , No . 2 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA .
January 1997 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disks Susceptibility Tests – Sixth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M2 - A5 , Vol .
17 , No . 1 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA .
January 1997 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards , Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Eighth Edition ; Approved Standard .
NCCLS Document M100 - S8 , Vol .
18 , No . 1 , NCCLS , 940 West Valley Road , Suite 1400 , Wayne , PA .
January 1998 Manufactured for : MEDICIS , The Dermatology Company ® Scottsdale , AZ 85258 IN - 5178 / S Prescribing Information as of February 2004
