Rx only DESCRIPTION Orange - flavored KLOR - CON ® / EF ( potassium bicarbonate effervescent tablets for oral solution , USP ) are an oral potassium supplement offered as effervescent tablets in individual packets for dissolution in water .
Each tablet contains potassium bicarbonate 2 . 5 g and citric acid 2 . 1 g which in solution provides 25 mEq ( 978 mg ) potassium as bicarbonate and citrate .
Also contains : FD & C Yellow No . 6 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake , microcrystalline cellulose , mineral oil , orange flavor , saccharin and talc .
KLOR - CON ® / EF tablets are sugar - free .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The potassium ion is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes , including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity , the transmission of nerve impulses , the contraction of cardiac , skeletal and smooth muscle and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion will occur whenever the rate of potassium loss through renal excretion and / or loss from the gastrointestinal tract exceeds the rate of potassium intake .
Such depletion usually develops as a consequence of therapy with diuretics , primary or secondary hyperaldosteronism , diabetic ketoacidosis or inadequate replacement of potassium in patients on prolonged parenteral nutrition .
Depletion can develop rapidly with severe diarrhea , especially if associated with vomiting .
Potassium depletion due to these causes is usually accompanied by a concomitant loss of chloride and is manifested by hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis .
Potassium depletion may produce weakness , fatigue , disturbances of cardiac rhythm ( primarily ectopic beats ) , prominent U - waves in the electrocardiogram and , in advanced cases , flaccid paralysis and / or impaired ability to concentrate urine .
If potassium depletion associated with metabolic alkalosis cannot be managed by correcting the fundamental cause of the deficiency ( e . g . , patients require long - term diuretic therapy ) , supplemental potassium in the form of high potassium food or potassium salts may be able to restore normal potassium levels .
In rare circumstances ( e . g . , patients with renal tubular acidosis ) , potassium depletion may be associated with metabolic acidosis and hyperchloremia .
In such patients , potassium replacement should be accomplished with potassium salts such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate or potassium gluconate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • For the treatment of patients with hypokalemia , with or without metabolic alkalosis ; in digitalis intoxication ; and in patients with hypokalemic familial periodic paralysis .
If hypokalemia is the result of diuretic therapy , consideration should be given to the use of a lower dose of diuretic , which may be sufficient without leading to hypokalemia .
• For the prevention of hypokalemia in patients who would be at particular risk if hypokalemia were to develop ( e . g . , digitalized patients or patients with significant cardiac arrhythmias ) .
The use of potassium salts in patients receiving diuretics for uncomplicated essential hypertension is often unnecessary when such patients have a normal dietary pattern and when low doses of the diuretic are used .
Serum potassium should be checked periodically , however , and if hypokalemia occurs , dietary supplementation with potassium - containing foods may be adequate to control milder cases .
In more severe cases , and if dose adjustment of the diuretic is ineffective or unwarranted , supplementation with potassium salts may be indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium supplements are contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia since a further increase in serum potassium concentration in such patients can produce cardiac arrest .
Hyperkalemia may complicate any of the following conditions : chronic renal failure , systemic acidosis such as diabetic acidosis , acute dehydration , extensive tissue breakdown as in severe burns , adrenal insufficiency or the administration of a potassium - sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene or amiloride ) [ see OVERDOSAGE ] .
WARNINGS Hyperkalemia [ see OVERDOSAGE ] In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , the administration of potassium salts can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
This occurs most commonly in patients given potassium by the intravenous route but may also occur in patients given potassium orally .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium salts in patients with chronic renal disease , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion , requires particularly careful monitoring of the serum potassium concentration and appropriate dosage adjustment .
Interaction with Potassium - Sparing Diuretics Hypokalemia should not be treated by the concomitant administration of potassium salts and a potassium - sparing diuretic ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene or amiloride ) , since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Interaction with Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors ( e . g . , captopril , enalapril ) will produce some potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring .
Metabolic Acidosis Hypokalemia in patients with metabolic acidosis should be treated with an alkalinizing potassium salt such as potassium bicarbonate , potassium citrate , potassium acetate or potassium gluconate .
PRECAUTIONS General The diagnosis of potassium depletion is ordinarily made by demonstrating hypokalemia in a patient with a clinical history suggesting some cause for potassium depletion .
In interpreting the serum potassium level , the physician should be aware that acute alkalosis per se can produce hypokalemia in the absence of a deficit in total body potassium while acute acidosis per se can increase the serum potassium concentration into the normal range even in the presence of a reduced total body potassium .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease or acidosis , requires careful attention to acid - base balance and appropriate monitoring of serum electrolytes , the electrocardiogram and the clinical status of the patient .
Information for Patients Remind the patient to take this medicine following the frequency and amount prescribed .
This is especially important if the patient is also taking diuretics and / or digitalis preparations .
Laboratory Tests When blood is drawn for analysis of plasma potassium , artifactual elevations can occur after improper venipuncture technique or as a result of in vitro hemolysis of the sample .
Drug Interactions Potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors [ see WARNINGS ] .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium salts .
It is not known if potassium salts cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
Potassium supplements should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from oral potassium supplements , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , considering the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ] .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort and diarrhea .
These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further , taking the dose with meals or reducing the dose .
OVERDOSAGE The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired or if potassium is administered too rapidly intravenously , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ] .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to 12 mEq / L ) .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : 1 ) elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and elimination of potassium - sparing diuretics ; 2 ) intravenous administration of 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL ; 3 ) correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate ; 4 ) use of exchange resins , hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dietary potassium intake by the average adult is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
Potassium depletion sufficient to cause hypokalemia usually requires the loss of 200 mEq or more of potassium from the total body store .
Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
The dose for the prevention of hypokalemia is typically 25 mEq per day .
Doses of 50 to 100 mEq per day or more are used for the treatment of potassium depletion .
Dosage should be divided if more than 25 mEq per day is given such that no more than 25 mEq is given in a single dose .
The usual adult dose is 25 to 100 mEq of potassium per day ( one KLOR - CON ® / EF tablet 1 to 4 times daily after meals ) .
Each KLOR - CON ® / EF tablet should be dissolved in at least 4 ounces of cold or ice water .
These preparations , like other potassium supplements , must be properly diluted to avoid the possibility of gastrointestinal irritation .
HOW SUPPLIED KLOR - CON ® / EF Potassium Bicarbonate Effervescent Tablets for Oral Solution , USP are supplied as follows : • Cartons of 30 individually wrapped tablets NDC 0245 - 5326 - 30 • Cartons of 100 individually wrapped tablets NDC 0245 - 5326 - 01 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for UPSHER - SMITH LABORATORIES , LLC Maple Grove , MN 55369 by Nomax , Inc .
St . Louis , MO 63123 Klor - Con is a registered trademark of Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC .
Revised : 6 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 978 mg Tablet Pouch Carton NDC 0245 - 5326 - 30 KLOR - CON ® / EF Potassium Bicarbonate Effervescent Tablets for Oral Solution , USP Orange - Flavored 25 mEq ( 978 mg ) Potassium per Tablet 30 Tablets Rx only UPSHER - SMITH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
