DESCRIPTION : Methenamine mandelate , USP , a urinary antibacterial agent , is the chemical combination of mandelic acid with methenamine .
Methenamine mandelate , USP is available for oral use as film - coated tablets .
Active Ingredients : Methenamine Mandelate : 500 mg or 0 . 5 gm .
Methenamine Mandelate : 1000 mg or 1 . 0 gm .
Other Ingredients : Dicalcium Phosphate , FD and C Blue # 1 Lake , FD and C Red # 40 Lake , FD and C Yellow # 6 Lake , Hypromellose , Magnesium Silicate , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Silica , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Titanium Dioxide , Polydextrose , Maltodextrin , and Medium Chain Triglycercides .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methenamine mandelate , USP is readily absorbed but remains essentially inactive until it is excreted by the kidney and concentrated in the urine .
An acid urine is essential for antibacterial action , with maximum efficacy occurring at pH 5 . 5 or less .
In an acid urine , mandelic acid exerts its antibacterial action and also contributes to the acidification of the urine .
Mandelic acid is excreted both by glomerular filtration and tubular excretion .
The methenamine component , in an acid urine , is hydrolyzed to ammonia and to the bactericidal agent formaldehyde .
There is equally effective antibacterial activity against both gram - positive and gram - negative organisms , since the antibacterial action of mandelic acid and formaldehyde is nonspecific .
There are reports that methenamine mandelate , USP is ineffective in some infections with Proteus vulgaris and urea - splitting strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and A aerogenes .
Since urea - splitting strains may raise the pH of the urine , particular attention to supplementary acidification is required .
However , results in any single case will depend to a large extent on the underlying pathology and the overall management .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methenamine mandelate , USP is indicated for the suppression or elimination of bacteriuria associated with pyelonephritis , cystitis , and other chronic urinary tract infections ; also for infected residual urine sometimes accompanying neurologic diseases .
When used as recommended , methenamine mandelate , USP is particularly suitable for long - term therapy because of its safety and because resistance to the nonspecific bactericidal action of formaldehyde does not develop .
Pathogens resistant to other antibacterial agents may respond to methenamine mandelate , USP because of the nonspecific effect of formaldehyde formed in an acid urine .
Prophylactic Use Rationale : Urine is a good culture medium for many urinary pathogens .
Inoculation by a few organisms ( relapse or reinfection ) may lead to bacteriuria in susceptible individuals .
Thus , the rationale of management in recurring urinary tract infection ( bacteriuria ) is to change the urine from a growth - supporting to a growth - inhibiting medium .
There is a growing body of evidence that long - term administration of methenamine mandelate , USP can prevent the recurrence of bacteriuria in patients with chronic pyelonephritis .
Therapeutic Use Rationale : Methenamine mandelate , USP helps to sterilize the urine , and in some situations in which underlying pathologic conditions prevent sterilization by any means , it can help to suppress the bacteriuria .
Methenamine mandelate , USP should not be used alone for acute infections with parenchymal involvement causing systemic symptoms such as chills and fever .
A thorough diagnostic investigation as a part of the overall management of the urinary tract infection should accompany the use of methenamine mandelate , USP .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in renal insufficiency .
Methenamine mandelate , USP should not be used in patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to it .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Dysuria may occur ( usually at higher than recommended dosage ) .
This can be controlled by reducing the dosage and the acidification .
When urine acidification is contraindicated or unattainable ( as with some urea - splitting bacteria ) , the drug is not recommended .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Formaldehyde and sulfamethizole form an insoluble precipitate in acid urine ; therefore , methenamine mandelate , USP should not be administered concurrently with sulfamethizole .
DRUG & OR LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Formaldehyde interferes with fluorometric procedures for determination of urinary catecholamines and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) , causing erroneously high results .
Formaldehyde also causes falsely decreased urine estriol levels by reacting with estriol when acid hydrolysis techniques are used ; estriol determinations which use enzymatic hydrolysis are unaffected by formaldehyde .
Formaldehyde causes falsely elevated 17 - hydroxycorticosteroid levels when the Porter - Silber method is used and falsely decreased 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5 HIAA ) levels by inhibiting color development when nitrosonaphthol methods are used .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with methenamine mandelate , USP .
It is also not known whether methenamine mandelate , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Methenamine mandelate , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Since introduction , published reports on the use of methenamine mandelate , USP in pregnant women have not shown an increased risk of fetal abnormalities from use during pregnancy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS An occasional patient may experience gastrointestinal disturbance or a generalized skin rash .
Microscopic and rarely gross hematuria have been described .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The average adult dose is 4 grams daily given as 1 gram after each meal and at bedtime .
Children 6 to 12 should receive half the adult dose , and children under 6 years of age should receive 250 mg per 30 lb body weight , four times daily .
( See chart ) Since an acid urine is essential for antibacterial activity , with maximum efficacy occurring at pH 5 . 5 or below , restriction of alkalinizing foods and medication is thus desirable .
If testing of urine pH reveals the need , supplemental acidification should be given .
Dosages Dosage Adults Pediatric Patients Tablets Tablets 1000 mg 1 tablet qid - 500 mg 2 tablets qid ( Ages 6 - 12 ) 1 tablet qid HOW SUPPLIED Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 500 mg are supplied as : NDC 42799 - 105 - 01 Bottles of 100 Each tablet is blue , film coated , and bears the product code “ 105 ” .
Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 1000 mg are supplied as : NDC 42799 - 106 - 01 Bottles of 100 Each tablet is pink , film coated , and bears the product code “ 106 ” .
Store at controlled room temperature between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured for : Edenbridge Pharmaceuticals , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 877 - 381 - 3336 Rev . 02 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
