Benzethonuim Chloride 0 . 2 % Antiseptic for small cuts and wounds .
• Protects cuts and scrapes • Prevents and protects blisters • Helps prevent the formations of calluses • Covers painful hangnails • Particularly useful for bowlers , golfers , tennis players , fishermen and musicians .
It dries rapidly to form a tough protective cover that is antiseptic , flexible , waterproof and lets skin breathe .
First aid to help prevent bacterial contamination in minor cuts and scrapes .
For external ue only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • longer than one week unless directed by a doctor • on infected areas or wounds that are draining • with other first aid products , such as lotions and creams • over sutures • on mucous membranes Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep puncture wounds • deep cuts • animal bites • serious bleeding • diabetes • poor circulation • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • infection occurs If swallowed , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away .
When using this product • do not store at temperatures above 120º F • intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the centents can be harmful or fatal Other information • Store at room temperature away from heat • May temporarily sting upon application • Do not allow to come into contact with floors , countertops or other finished surfaces - will stain Directions • clean affected area • apply small amount on the area 1 - 3 times daily • let dry • a second coating may be applied for extra protection • to remove , apply more Liquid Bandage and quickly wipe off .
Glycerol , Ethanol , PVA - 217 , Purified Water , Allantion , Triclosan .
• Clean affected area • apply a small amount on the area 1 - 3 times daily • let dry • a second coating may be applied for extra protection .
GLS Personal Care Solutions Waterproof Liquid Bandage First Aid Antiseptic Liquid Bandage For small cuts & wounds Over 50 applications First Aid Antiseptic Liquid Bandage 0 . 3 Fl oz .
( 10 mL ) Used By : • Hikers • Bikers • Bowlers • Golfers • Tennis Players • Fishermen • Runners Liquid Bandages is for small cuts and wounds .
It dries rapidly to form a tough protective cover that is antiseptic , flexible , waterproof and lets skin breathe .
Completely covers the entire wound to keep out dirt and germs .
Try it spray for larger areas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
