Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr USP , 5 mg Guaifenesin USP , 100 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • shake well before using age dose children 6 to under 12 years 5 - 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 to under 6 years 2 . 5 - 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
• do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients Organic agave syrup , non - GMO citric acid , glycerin , organic natural flavor , purified water QUESTION ?
Call 424 - 235 - 0355 Principal Display Panel KIDS ' COUGH & CONGESTION Ages 4 - 11 yrs Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg per 5 mL Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin100 mg per 5 mL Expectorant Organic Berry Flavor NO COMMON ALLERGENS .
NO DYES OR PARABENS DOSAGE CUP PROVIDED FL OZ ( mL ) TAMPER EVIDENT : BOTTLE IS SAFETY SEALED .
DO NOT USE IF BOTTLE SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Keep outer carton for complete warnings and product information .
DISTRIBUTED BY : KinderFarms ® Redondo Beach , CA 90277 USA kinderfarms . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
