For Topical Dermatologic Use Only - Not for Oral , Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use DESCRIPTION ERTACZO ® ( sertaconazole nitrate ) Cream , 2 % , contains the imidazole antifungal , sertaconazole nitrate .
Sertaconazole nitrate contains one asymmetric carbon atom and exists as a racemic mixture of equal amounts of R and S enantiomers .
Sertaconazole nitrate is designated chemically as ( ± ) - 1 - [ 2 , 4 - dichloro - β - [ ( 7 - chlorobenzo - [ b ] thien - 3 - yl ) methoxy ] phenethyl ] imidazole nitrate .
It has a molecular weight of 500 . 8 .
The molecular formula is C20H15Cl3N2OS • HNO3 , and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sertaconazole nitrate is a white or almost white powder .
It is practically insoluble in water , soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in alcohol and in methylene chloride .
Each gram of ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , contains 17 . 5 mg of sertaconazole ( as sertaconazole nitrate , 20 mg ) in a white cream base of ethylene glycol and polyethylene glycol palmitostearate , glyceryl isostearate , light mineral oil , methylparaben , polyoxyethylened saturated glycerides and glycolized saturated glycerides , sorbic acid and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics : In a multiple dose pharmacokinetic study that included 5 male patients with interdigital tinea pedis ( range of diseased area , 42 - 140 cm2 ; mean , 93 cm2 ) , ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , was topically applied every 12 hours for a total of 13 doses to the diseased skin ( 0 . 5 grams sertaconazole nitrate per 100 cm2 ) .
Sertaconazole concentrations in plasma measured by serial blood sampling for 72 hours after the thirteenth dose were below the limit of quantitation ( 2 . 5 ng / mL ) of the analytical method used .
Microbiology : Sertaconazole is an antifungal that belongs to the imidazole class of antifungals .
While the exact mechanism of action of this class of antifungals is not known , it is believed that they act primarily by inhibiting the cytochrome P450 - dependent synthesis of ergosterol .
Ergosterol is a key component of the cell membrane of fungi , and lack of this component leads to fungal cell injury primarily by leakage of key constituents in the cytoplasm from the cell .
ActivityIn Vivo : Sertaconazole nitrate has been shown to be active against isolates of the following microorganisms in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Epidermophyton floccosum CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , double - blind , clinical trials , patients 12 years and older with interdigital tinea pedis applied either ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , or vehicle , twice daily for four weeks .
Patients with moccasin - type ( plantar ) tinea pedis and / or onychomycosis were excluded from the study .
Two weeks after completion of therapy ( six weeks after beginning therapy ) , patients were evaluated for signs and symptoms related to interdigital tinea pedis .
Treatment outcomes are summarized in the table below .
Treatment Outcomes as Percent ( % ) of Total Subjects * Complete Cure - Patients who had complete clearing of signs and symptoms and Mycological Cure .
** Effective Treatment - Patients who had minimal residual signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis and Mycological Cure .
*** Mycological Cure - Patients who had both negative microscopic KOH preparation and a negative fungal culture .
Study 1 Study 2 Sertaconazole Vehicle Sertaconazole Vehicle Complete Cure * ( Primary Efficacy Variable ) 13 / 99 ( 13 . 1 % ) 3 / 92 ( 3 . 3 % ) 28 / 103 ( 27 . 2 % ) 5 / 103 ( 4 . 9 % ) Effective Treatment ** 32 / 99 ( 32 . 3 % ) 11 / 92 ( 12 . 0 % ) 52 / 103 ( 50 . 5 % ) 16 / 103 ( 15 . 5 % ) Mycological Cure *** 49 / 99 ( 49 . 5 % ) 18 / 92 ( 19 . 6 % ) 71 / 103 ( 68 . 9 % ) 20 / 103 ( 19 . 4 % ) In clinical trials , complete cure in sertaconazole treated patients was achieved in 32 of 160 ( 20 % ) patients with Trichophyton rubrum , in 7 of 28 ( 25 % ) patients with Trichophyton mentagrophytes and in 2 of 13 ( 15 % ) patients with Epidermophyton floccosum .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ERTACZO ® ( sertaconazole nitrate ) Cream , 2 % , is indicated for the topical treatment of interdigital tinea pedis in immunocompetent patients 12 years of age and older , caused by : Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum ( see CLINICAL STUDIES Section ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is contraindicated in patients who have a known or suspected sensitivity to sertaconazole nitrate or any of its components or to other imidazoles .
WARNINGS ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is not indicated for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
PRECAUTIONS General : ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is for use on the skin only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of infected superficial epidermal tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Physicians should exercise caution when prescribing ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , to patients known to be sensitive to imidazole antifungals , since cross - reactivity may occur .
Information for Patients : The patient should be instructed to : • Use ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , as directed by the physician .
The hands should be washed after applying the medication to the affected area ( s ) .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is for external use only .
• Dry the affected area ( s ) thoroughly before application , if you wish to use ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , after bathing .
• Use the medication for the full treatment time recommended by the physician , even though symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after the end of the prescribed treatment period , or sooner , if the condition worsens .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation , redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling or oozing .
• Avoid the use of occlusive dressings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Do not use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Potential interactions between ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , and other drugs or laboratory tests have not been systematically evaluated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of sertaconazole nitrate have not been conducted .
No clastogenic potential was observed in a mouse micronucleus test .
Sertaconazole nitrate was considered negative for sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) in the in vivo mouse bone marrow SCE assay .
There was no evidence that sertaconazole nitrate induced unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat primary hepatocyte cultures .
Sertaconazole nitrate exhibited no toxicity or adverse effects on reproductive performance or fertility of male or female rats given up to 60 mg / kg / day orally by gastric intubation ( 16 times the maximum recommended human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C : Oral reproduction studies in rats and rabbits did not produce any evidence of maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity of sertaconazole nitrate at an oral dose of 160 mg / kg / day ( 40 times ( rats ) and 80 times ( rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area comparison ) .
In an oral peri - postnatal study in rats , a reduction in live birth indices and an increase in the number of still - born pups was seen at 80 and 160 mg / kg / day .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies that have been conducted on topically applied ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if sertaconazole is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when prescribing ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : The efficacy and safety of ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
ADVERSE EVENTS In clinical trials , cutaneous adverse events occurred in 7 of 297 ( 2 % ) patients ( 2 of them severe ) receiving ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , and in 7 of 291 ( 2 % ) patients ( 2 of them severe ) receiving vehicle .
These reported cutaneous adverse events included contact dermatitis , dry skin , burning skin , application site reaction and skin tenderness .
In a dermal sensitization study , 8 of 202 evaluable patients tested with ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , and 4 of 202 evaluable patients tested with vehicle , exhibited a slight erythematous reaction in the challenge phase .
There was no evidence of cumulative irritation or contact sensitization in a repeated insult patch test involving 202 healthy volunteers .
In non - US post - marketing surveillance for ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , the following cutaneous adverse events were reported : contact dermatitis , erythema , pruritus , vesiculation , desquamation , and hyperpigmentation .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , has not been reported to date .
ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is intended for topical dermatologic use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis , ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , should be applied twice daily for 4 weeks .
Sufficient ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , should be applied to cover both the affected areas between the toes and the immediately surrounding healthy skin of patients with interdigital tinea pedis .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement 2 weeks after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
HOW SUPPLIED ERTACZO ® Cream , 2 % , is supplied in tubes in the following size : • 30 - gram tube NDC 21695 - 454 - 30 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30 ° C ( 59º - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx only .
Patent No . 5 , 135 , 943 Distributed By : OrthoNeutrogena DIVISION OF ORTHO - McNEIL PHARMACEUTICAL , INC .
Los Angeles , CA 90045 Repackaged By : Rebel Distributors Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Rev November 2005 128354 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
