Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 13 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 % Oxybenzone 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , triethanolamine , VP / eicosene copolymer , stearic acid , sorbitan isostearate , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , benzyl alcohol , dimethicone , tocopheryl , chlorphenesin , polyglyceryl - 3 distearate , fragrance , carbomer , disodium EDTA May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Ultra Guard Sunscreen Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
Made in the USA with US and foreign parts .
Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , LLC St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 www . mymountainfalls . com principal display panel mountain falls * Compare to Coppertone paraben free SPF 50 water resistant 80 minutes ultra sunscreen lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 UVA / UVB SUNSCREEN 16 FL OZ ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
