DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL of oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) contains 5 mg of oxybutynin chloride , USP .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - diethylamino - 2 - butynyl phenylcyclohexylglycolate hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin chloride is C H NO • HCl .
The structural formula appears below : 22313 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 393 . 9 .
It is readily soluble in water and acids , but relatively insoluble in alkalis .
Oxybutynin Chloride Syrup ( Oxybutynin Chloride Oral Solution ) also contains : Apple - Watermelon flavor , citric acid , FD & C Green # 3 , glycerin , methylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , and sucrose .
Oxybutynin Chloride Syrup ( Oxybutynin Chloride Oral Solution ) is for oral administration .
Therapeutic Category : Antispasmodic , anticholinergic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oxybutynin chloride exerts a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin chloride exhibits only one - fifth of the anticholinergic activity of atropine on the rabbit detrusor muscle , but four to ten times the antispasmodic activity .
No blocking effects occur at skeletal neuromuscular junctions or autonomic ganglia ( antinicotinic effects ) .
Oxybutynin chloride relaxes bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary bladder contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin chloride increases bladder ( vesical ) capacity , diminishes the frequency of uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle , and delays the initial desire to void .
Oxybutynin chloride thus decreases urgency and the frequency of both incontinent episodes and voluntary urination .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominately in the R - isomer .
A metabolite , desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity similar to that of oxybutynin in studies .
in vitro Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of oxybutynin chloride , oxybutynin is rapidly absorbed achieving C within an hour , following which plasma concentration decreases with an effective half - life of approximately 2 to 3 hours .
The absolute bioavailability of oxybutynin is reported to be about 6 % ( range 1 . 6 to 10 . 9 % ) for both the tablet and oral solution .
Wide interindividual variation in pharmacokinetic parameters is evident following oral administration of oxybutynin .
max The mean pharmacokinetic parameters for R - and S - oxybutynin are summarized in Table 1 .
The plasma concentration - time profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 1 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin .
Table 1 Mean ( SD ) R - and S - Oxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Three Doses of Oxybutynin Chloride 5 mg Administered every 8 Hours ( n = 23 ) R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin Parameters ( units ) C ( ng / mL ) max 3 . 6 ( 2 . 2 ) 7 . 8 ( 4 . 1 ) T ( h ) max 0 . 89 ( 0 . 34 ) 0 . 65 ( 0 . 32 ) AUC ( ng ∙ h / mL ) t 22 . 6 ( 11 . 3 ) 35 . 0 ( 17 . 3 ) AUC ( ng ∙ h / mL ) inf 24 . 3 ( 12 . 3 ) 37 . 3 ( 18 . 7 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mean R - oxybutynin plasma concentrations following three doses of oxybutynin chloride 5 mg administered every 8 hours for 1 day in 23 healthy adult volunteers Figure 1 .
Oxybutynin chloride steady - state pharmacokinetics were also studied in 23 pediatric patients with detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
These pediatric patients were on oxybutynin chloride tablets ( n = 11 ) with total daily dose ranging from 7 . 5 mg to 15 mg ( 0 . 22 to 0 . 53 mg / kg ) or oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) ( n = 12 ) with total daily dose ranging from 5 mg to 22 . 5 mg ( 0 . 26 to 0 . 75 mg / kg ) .
Overall , most patients ( 86 . 9 % ) were taking a total daily oxybutynin chloride dose between 10 mg and 15 mg .
Sparse sampling technique was used to obtain serum samples .
When all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg twice daily oxybutynin chloride , the mean pharmacokinetic parameters derived for R - and S - oxybutynin and R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are summarized in Table 2 a ( for tablet ) and Table 2 b ( for oral solution ) .
The plasma - time concentration profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 2 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin when all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg twice daily .
Table 2 aMean ± SD R - and S - Oxybutynin and R - and S - Desethyloxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters In Children Aged 5 – 15 Following Administration of 7 . 5 mg to 15 mg Total Daily Dose of Oxybutynin Chloride Tablets ( N = 11 ) All Available Data Normalized to an Equivalent of Oxybutynin Chloride Tablets 5 mg BID or TID at Steady State R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin R - Desethyloxybutynin S - Desethyloxybutynin C ( ng / mL ) max [ 1 ] 6 . 1 ± 3 . 2 10 . 1 ± 7 . 5 55 . 4 ± 17 . 9 28 . 2 ± 10 . 0 T ( hr ) max 1 . 0 1 . 0 2 . 0 2 . 0 AUC ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) [ 2 ] 19 . 8 ± 7 . 4 28 . 4 ± 12 . 7 238 . 8 ± 77 . 6 119 . 5 ± 50 . 7 [ 1 ] Reflects C for pooled data max [ 2 ] AUC 0 - end of dosing interval Table 2 bMean ± SD R - and S - Oxybutynin and R - and S - Desethyloxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters In Children Aged 5 – 15 Following Administration of 5 mg to 22 . 5 mg Total Daily Dose of Oxybutynin Chloride Syrup ( Oxybutynin Chloride Oral Solution ) ( N = 12 ) All Available Data Normalized to an Equivalent of Oxybutynin Chloride Syrup ( Oxybutynin Chloride Oral Solution ) 5 mg BID or TID at Steady State R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin R - Desethyloxybutynin S - Desethyloxybutynin C ( ng / mL ) max [ 1 ] 5 . 7 ± 6 . 2 7 . 3 ± 7 . 3 54 . 2 ± 34 . 0 27 . 8 ± 20 . 7 T ( hr ) max 1 . 0 1 . 0 1 . 0 1 . 0 AUC ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) [ 2 ] 16 . 3 ± 17 . 1 20 . 2 ± 20 . 8 209 . 1 ± 174 . 2 99 . 1 ± 87 . 5 [ 1 ] Reflects C for pooled data max [ 2 ] AUC 0 - end of dosing interval [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mean steady - state ( ± SD ) R - oxybutynin plasma concentrations following administration of total daily oxybutynin chloride dose of 5 mg to 30 mg ( 0 . 21 mg / kg to 0 . 77 mg / kg ) in children 5 – 15 years of age .
— Plot represents all available data normalized to the equivalent of oxybutynin chloride 5 mg BID or TID at steady state Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effects Data in the literature suggests that oxybutynin solution co - administered with food resulted in a slight delay in absorption and an increase in its bioavailability by 25 % ( n = 18 ) .
1 Distribution Plasma concentrations of oxybutynin decline biexponentially following intravenous or oral administration .
The volume of distribution is 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Its metabolic products include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and desethyloxybutynin , which is pharmacologically active .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Also , less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite desethyloxybutynin .
CLINICAL STUDIES Oxybutynin chloride was well tolerated in patients administered the drug in controlled studies of 30 days ' duration and in uncontrolled studies in which some of the patients received the drug for 2 years .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) is indicated for the relief of symptoms of bladder instability associated with voiding in patients with uninhibited neurogenic or reflex neurogenic bladder ( i . e . , urgency , frequency , urinary leakage , urge incontinence , dysuria ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions , uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma and in patients who are at risk for these conditions .
Oxybutynin chloride is also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product .
PRECAUTIONS Central Nervous System Effects Oxybutynin is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects ( see ) .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including hallucinations , agitation , confusion and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly in the first few months after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxybutynin chloride should be used with caution in patients with preexisting dementia treated with cholinesterase inhibitors due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
General Oxybutynin chloride should be used with caution in the frail elderly , in patients with hepatic or renal impairment , and in patients with myasthenia gravis .
Oxybutynin chloride may aggravate the symptoms of hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hiatal hernia , tachycardia , hypertension , myasthenia gravis , and prostatic hypertrophy .
Urinary Retention Oxybutynin chloride should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention ( see ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Oxybutynin chloride should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention ( see ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration of oxybutynin chloride to patients with ulcerative colitis may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and precipitate or aggravate toxic megacolon , a serious complication of the disease .
Oxybutynin chloride , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis , and intestinal atony .
Oxybutynin chloride should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur when anticholinergics such as oxybutynin chloride are administered in the presence of high environmental temperature .
Because anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin may produce drowsiness ( somnolence ) , or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution .
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth , constipation , somnolence ( drowsiness ) , and / or other anticholinergic - like effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
This may be of concern for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 3 – 4 fold higher when oxybutynin chloride was administered with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , itraconazole and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) , may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters ( i . e . , C and AUC ) .
The clinical relevance of such potential interactions is not known .
Caution should be used when such drugs are co - administered .
max Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 , and 160 mg / kg / day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 , and 50 times the maximum human exposure , based on surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in and test systems .
Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiaeSalmonella typhimurium Reproduction studies using oxybutynin chloride in the hamster , rabbit , rat , and mouse have shown no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies using oxybutynin chloride in the hamster , rabbit , rat , and mouse have shown no definite evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the animal fetus .
The safety of oxybutynin chloride administered to women who are or who may become pregnant has not been established .
Therefore , oxybutynin chloride should not be given to pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the probable clinical benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when oxybutynin chloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of oxybutynin chloride administration have been demonstrated for pediatric patients 5 years of age and older ( see ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The safety and efficacy of oxybutynin chloride tablets and oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) were studied in 30 and in 26 children , respectively , in a 24 - week , open - label trial .
Patients were aged 5 – 15 years , all had symptoms of detrusor overactivity in association with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) , all used clean intermittent catheterization , and all were current users of oxybutynin chloride .
Study results demonstrated that the administration of oxybutynin chloride was associated with improvement in clinical and urodynamic parameters .
At total daily doses ranging from 5 mg to 15 mg , treatment with oxybutynin chloride tablets was associated with an increase from baseline in mean urine volume per catheterization from 122 mL to 145 mL , an increase from baseline in mean urine volume after morning awakening from 148 mL to 168 mL , and an increase from baseline in the mean percentage of catheterizations without a leaking episode from 43 % to 61 % .
Urodynamic results in these patients were consistent with the clinical results .
Treatment with oxybutynin chloride tablets was associated with an increase from baseline in maximum cystometric capacity from 230 mL to 279 mL , a decrease from baseline in mean detrusor pressure at maximum cystometric capacity from 36 cm H O to 33 cm H O , and a reduction in the percentage of patients demonstrating uninhibited detrusor contractions ( of at least 15 cm H O ) from 39 % to 20 % .
222 At total daily doses ranging from 5 mg to 30 mg , treatment with oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) was associated with an increase from baseline in mean urine volume per catheterization from 113 mL to 133 mL , an increase from baseline in mean urine volume after morning awakening from 143 mL to 165 mL , and an increase from baseline in the mean percentage of catheterizations without a leaking episode from 34 % to 63 % .
Urodynamic results were consistent with these clinical results .
Treatment with oxybutynin chloride syrup ( oxybutynin chloride oral solution ) was associated with an increase from baseline in maximum cystometric capacity from 192 mL to 294 mL , a decrease from baseline in mean detrusor pressure at maximum cystometric capacity from 46 cm H O to 37 cm H O , and a reduction in the percentage of patients demonstrating uninhibited detrusor contractions ( of at least 15 cm H O ) from 67 % to 28 % .
222 As there is insufficient clinical data for pediatric populations under age 5 , oxybutynin chloride is not recommended for this age group .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of oxybutynin chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between healthy elderly and younger patients ; however , a lower initial starting dose of 2 . 5 mg given 2 or 3 times a day has been recommended for the frail elderly due to a prolongation of the elimination half - life from 2 – 3 hours to 5 hours .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
2 , 3 , 4 ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety and efficacy of oxybutynin chloride was evaluated in a total of 199 patients in three clinical trials comparing oxybutynin chloride with oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets ( see Table 3 ) .
These participants were treated with oxybutynin chloride 5 – 20 mg / day for up to 6 weeks .
Table 3 shows the incidence of adverse events judged by investigators to be at least possibly related to treatment and reported by at least 5 % of patients .
Table 3 Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 5 % of Patients Using Oxybutynin Chloride ( 5 – 20 mg / day ) Body System Adverse Event Oxybutynin Chloride ( 5 – 20 mg / day ) ( n = 199 ) Infections and Infestations Urinary tract infection 6 . 5 % Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 5 . 5 % Nervousness 6 . 5 % Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 16 . 6 % Somnolence 14 . 0 % Headache 7 . 5 % Eye Disorders Blurred vision 9 . 6 % Gastrointestinal Disorders Dry mouth 71 . 4 % Constipation 15 . 1 % Nausea 11 . 6 % Dyspepsia 6 . 0 % Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary Hesitation 8 . 5 % Urinary Retention 6 . 0 % The most common adverse events reported by patients receiving oxybutynin chloride 5 – 20 mg / day were the expected side effects of anticholinergic agents .
The incidence of dry mouth was dose - related .
In addition , the following adverse events were reported by 1 to < 5 % of patients using oxybutynin chloride ( 5 – 20 mg / day ) in all studies .
nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , bronchitis , cystitis , fungal infection ; Infections and Infestations : fluid retention ; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : confusional state ; Psychiatric Disorders : dysgeusia , sinus headache ; Nervous System Disorders : keratoconjunctivitis sicca , eye irritation ; Eye Disorders : palpitations , sinus arrhythmia ; Cardiac Disorders : flushing ; Vascular Disorders : nasal dryness , cough , pharyngolaryngeal pain , dry throat , sinus congestion , hoarseness , asthma , nasal congestion ; Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : diarrhea , abdominal pain , loose stools , flatulence , vomiting , abdominal pain upper , dysphagia , aptyalism , eructation , tongue coated ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : dry skin , pruritis ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : back pain , arthralgia , pain in extremity , flank pain ; Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : dysuria , pollakiuria ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : fatigue , edema peripheral , asthenia , pain , thirst , edema ; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : blood pressure increased , blood glucose increased , blood pressure decreased ; Investigations : fall .
Injury , Poisoning , and Procedural Complications : Postmarketing Surveillance Because postmarketing adverse events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional adverse events have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with oxybutynin chloride : psychotic disorder , agitation , hallucinations ; Psychiatric Disorders : convulsions ; Nervous System Disorders : cycloplegia , mydriasis ; Eye disorders : tachycardia ; Cardiac Disorders : decreased gastrointestinal motility ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : rash , decreased sweating ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : impotence ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : Suppression of lactation .
Reproductive system and breast disorders : OVERDOSAGE Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Activated charcoal as well as a cathartic may be administered .
Overdosage with oxybutynin chloride has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation ( e . g . , restlessness , tremor , irritability , convulsions , delirium , hallucinations ) , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Other symptoms may include hypotension or hypertension , respiratory failure , paralysis , and coma .
Ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 year old boy who experienced memory loss , and a 34 year old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients fully recovered with symptomatic treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : The usual dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) of oral solution two to three times a day .
The maximum recommended dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) of oral solution four times a day .
A lower starting dose of 2 . 5 mg two or three times a day is recommended for the frail elderly .
Pediatric patients over 5 years of age : The usual dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) of oral solution two times a day .
The maximum recommended dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) of oral solution three times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 17856 - 1491 - 5 in a CUP of 5 SOLUTIONS Pharmacist : Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES Yong C et al .
Effect of Food on the Pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin in normal subjects .
1991 ; 8 ( Suppl . )
: S - 320 .
1 Pharm Res .
Hughes KM et al .
Measurement of oxybutynin and its - desethyl metabolite in plasma , and its application to pharmacokinetic studies in young , elderly and frail elderly volunteers .
.
1992 ; 22 ( 7 ) : 859 – 869 .
2 NXenobiotica Ouslander J et al .
Pharmacokinetics and Clinical Effects of Oxybutynin in Geriatric Patients .
1988 ; 140 : 47 – 50 .
3 J .
Urol .
Yarker Y et al .
Oxybutynin : A review of its Pharmacodynamic and Pharmacokinetic Properties , and its Therapeutic Use in Detrusor Instability .
1995 ; 6 ( 3 ) : 243 – 262 .
4 Drugs & Aging .
Manufactured for : Huntsville , AL 35811 QUALITEST PHARMACEUTICALS 8180539 R3 / 08 - R4 OXYBUTYNIN CHLORIDE SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
