These highlights do not include all the information needed to use omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP .
NDC 60505 - 3170 - 7 .
Also see full prescribing information of all package inserts inside product kit .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride ( TG ) levels in adult patients with severe ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) hypertriglyceridemia ( HTG ) .
Usage Considerations : Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP and should continue this diet during treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP .
Laboratory studies should be done to ascertain that the lipid levels are consistently abnormal before instituting therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Every attempt should be made to control serum lipids with appropriate diet , exercise , weight loss in obese patients , and control of any medical problems such as diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism that are contributing to the lipid abnormalities .
Medications known to exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia ( such as beta blockers , thiazides , estrogens ) should be discontinued or changed if possible prior to consideration of triglyceride - lowering drug therapy .
Limitations of Use : Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on the risk for pancreatitis has not been determined .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
As Always only take the prescribed dosages as per your physicans directions .
Assess triglyceride levels carefully before initiating therapy .
Identify other causes ( e . g . , diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , medications ) of high triglyceride levels and manage as appropriate [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid - lowering diet before receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , and should continue this diet during treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
In clinical studies , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules were administered with meals .
The daily dose of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules is 4 grams per day .
The daily dose may be taken as a single 4 - gram dose ( 4 capsules ) or as two 2 - gram doses ( 2 capsules given twice daily ) .
Patients should be advised to swallow omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole .
Do not break open , crush , dissolve , or chew omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Dosage of Omeag - 3 Support is 1 - 2 caps per day with food or as directed by your physician .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP are supplied as 1 - gram transparent , soft gelatin capsules filled with light yellowish oil printed with white ink ( Logo “ APO900 ” ) .
Omega - 3 Support suppliment is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactic reaction ) to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules or any of its components .
5 . 1 Monitoring : Laboratory Tests In patients with hepatic impairment , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
In some patients , increases in ALT levels without a concurrent increase in AST levels were observed .
In some patients , omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsule increases LDL - C levels .
LDL - C levels should be monitored periodically during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
Laboratory studies should be performed periodically to measure the patient ’ s TG levels during therapy with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters .
5 . 2 Fish Allergy Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules contain ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids ( EPA and DHA ) obtained from the oil of several fish sources .
It is not known whether patients with allergies to fish and / or shellfish , are at increased risk of an allergic reaction to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules should be used with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to fish and / or shellfish .
5 . 3 Recurrent Atrial Fibrillation ( AF ) or Flutter In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of 663 subjects with symptomatic paroxysmal AF ( n = 542 ) or persistent AF ( n = 121 ) , recurrent AF or flutter was observed in subjects randomized to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters who received 8 grams / day for 7 days and 4 grams / day thereafter for 23 weeks at a higher rate relative to placebo .
Subjects in this trial had median baseline triglycerides of 127 mg / dL , had no substantial structural heart disease , were taking no anti - arrhythmic therapy ( rate control permitted ) , and were in normal sinus rhythm at baseline .
At 24 weeks , in the paroxysmal AF stratum , there were 129 ( 47 % ) first recurrent symptomatic AF or flutter events on placebo and 141 ( 53 % ) on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters [ primary endpoint , HR 1 . 19 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 93 , 1 . 35 ] .
In the persistent AF stratum , there were 19 ( 35 % ) events on placebo and 34 ( 52 % ) events on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters [ HR 1 . 63 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 91 , 2 . 18 ] .
For both strata combined , the HR was 1 . 25 ; 95 % CI : 1 . 00 , 1 . 40 .
Although the clinical significance of these results is uncertain , there is a possible association between omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and more frequent recurrences of symptomatic atrial fibrillation or flutter in patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation , particularly within the first 2 to 3 months of initiating therapy .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are not indicated for the treatment of AF or flutter .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions reported in at least 3 % and at a greater rate than placebo for subjects treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules based on pooled data across 23 clinical trials are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Advers e Reactions Occurring at Incidence ≥ 3 % and Greater than Placebo in Clinical Trials of omega - 3 - acid ethylesters capssules Adverse Reactions Omega - 3 - acid ethylesters capsules ( N = 655 ) Placebo ( N = 370 ) n % n % Eructation 29 4 5 1 Dyspepsia 22 3 6 2 Taste perversion 27 4 1 ≤ 1 Additional adverse reactions from clinical trials are listed below : Digestive System : Constipation , gastrointestinal disorder and vomiting .
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Increased ALT and increased AST .
Skin : Pruritus and rash .
6 . 2 Pos tmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the events described below have been identified during post - approval use of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their Trials included subjects with HTG and severe HTG .
frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following events have been reported : anaphylactic reaction , hemorrhagic diathesis .
Anticoagulants or Other Drugs Affecting Coagulation Some trials with omega - 3 - acids demonstrated prolongation of bleeding time .
The prolongation of bleeding time reported in these trials has not exceeded normal limits and did not produce clinically significant bleeding episodes .
Clinical trials have not been done to thoroughly examine the effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and concomitant anticoagulants .
Patients receiving treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters and an anticoagulant or other drug affecting coagulation ( e . g . , anti - platelet agents ) should be monitored periodically .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
It is unknown whether omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the patient justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Animal Data : Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have been shown to have an embryocidal effect in pregnant rats when given in doses resulting in exposures 7 times the recommended human dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison .
In female rats given oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day beginning 2 weeks prior to mating and continuing through gestation and lactation , no adverse effects were observed in the highdose group ( 5 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 1 , 000 , 3 , 000 , and 6 , 000 mg / kg / day from gestation day 6 through 15 , no adverse effects were observed ( 14 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rats given oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day from gestation day 14 through lactation day 21 , no adverse effects were seen at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times the human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
However , decreased live births ( 20 % reduction ) and decreased survival to postnatal day 4 ( 40 % reduction ) were observed in a dose - ranging study using higher doses of 3 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
In pregnant rabbits given oral gavage doses of 375 , 750 , and 1 , 500 mg / kg / day from gestation day 7 through 19 , no findings were observed in the fetuses in groups given 375 mg / kg / day ( 2 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
However , at higher doses , evidence of maternal toxicity was observed ( 4 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Studies with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have demonstrated excretion in human milk .
The effect of this excretion on the infant of a nursing mother is unknown ; caution should be exercised when omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are administered to a nursing mother .
An animal study in lactating rats given oral gavage C - ethyl EPA demonstrated that drug levels were 6 to 14 times higher in milk 14 than in plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A limited number of subjects older than 65 years were enrolled in the clinical trials of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Safety and efficacy findings in subjects older than 60 years did not appear to differ from those of subjects younger than 60 years .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules do not have any known drug abuse or withdrawal effects .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP , a lipid - regulating agent , are supplied as a liquid - filled gel capsule for oral administration .
Each 1 - gram capsule of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP contains at least 900 mg of the ethyl esters of omega - 3 fatty acids sourced from fish oils .
These are predominantly a combination of ethyl esters of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA - approximately 465 mg ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA - approximately 375 mg ) .
The molecular formula of EPA ethyl ester is C H O , and the molecular weight of EPA ethyl ester is 330 . 51 .
The molecular formula of DHA ethyl ester is C H O , and the molecular weight of DHA ethyl ester is 356 . 55 .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP also contain the following inactive ingredients : 4 mg α - tocopherol ( in a carrier of soybean oil ) , and gelatin , glycerin , purified water , and white ink ( components of the capsule shell ) .
The capsule imprinting ink contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters is not completely understood .
Potential mechanisms of action include inhibition of acyl - CoA : 1 , 2 - diacylglycerol acyltransferase , increased mitochondrial and peroxisomal β - oxidation in the liver , decreased lipogenesis in the liver , and increased plasma lipoprotein lipase activity .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters may reduce the synthesis of triglycerides in the liver because EPA and DHA are poor substrates for the enzymes responsible for TG synthesis , and EPA and DHA inhibit esterification of other fatty acids .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In healthy volunteers and in subjects with hypertriglyceridemia , EPA and DHA were absorbed when administered as ethyl esters orally .
Omega - 3 - acids administered as ethyl esters induced significant , dose - dependent increases in serum phospholipid EPA content , though increases in DHA content were less marked and not dose - dependent when administered as ethyl esters .
Specific Populations : Age : Uptake of EPA and DHA into serum phospholipids in subjects treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters was independent of age ( < 49 years versus ≥ 49 years ) .
Gender : Females tended to have more uptake of EPA into serum phospholipids than males .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
Pediatric : Pharmacokinetics of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters have not been studied .
Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Drug - Drug Interactions : Simvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 24 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of simvastatin 80 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect the extent ( AUC ) or rate ( C ) of exposure to simvastatin or the major active metabolite , beta - hydroxy simvastatin at steady state .
Atorvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 50 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of atorvastatin 80 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect AUC or C of exposure to atorvastatin , 2 - hydroxyatorvastatin , or 4 - hydroxyatorvastatin at steady state .
Rosuvastatin : In a 14 - day trial of 48 healthy adult subjects , daily coadministration of rosuvastatin 40 mg with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams did not affect AUC or C of exposure to rosuvastatin at steady state .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that clinically significant cytochrome P450 - mediated inhibition by EPA / DHA combinations are not expected in humans .
13 . 1 Carcinogenes is , Mutagenes is , Impairment of Fertility In a rat carcinogenicity study with oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters for 101 weeks and females for 89 weeks without an increased incidence of tumors ( up to 5 times human systemic exposures following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Standard lifetime carcinogenicity bioassays were not conducted in mice .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) test with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli or in the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster V79 lung cells or human lymphocytes .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters were negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In a rat fertility study with oral gavage doses of 100 , 600 , and 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , males were treated for 10 weeks prior to mating and females were treated for 2 weeks prior to and throughout mating , gestation , and lactation .
No adverse effect on fertility was observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 times human systemic exposure following an oral dose of 4 grams / day based on a body surface area comparison ) .
14 . 1 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams per day were assessed in 2 randomized , placebomax controlled , double - blind , parallel - group trials of 84 adult subjects ( 42 on omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , 42 on placebo ) with very high triglyceride levels .
Subjects whose baseline triglyceride levels were between 500 and 2 , 000 mg / dL were enrolled in these 2 trials of 6 and 16 weeks ' duration .
The median triglyceride and LDL - C levels in these subjects were 792 mg / dL and 100 mg / dL , respectively .
Median HDL - C level was 23 . 0 mg / dL .
The changes in the major lipoprotein lipid parameters for the groups receiving omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or placebo are shown in Table 2 .
( Refer to actual table in package insert in product ) Table 2 .
Median Baseline and Percent Change From Baseline in Lipid Parameters in Subjects With Severe Hypertriglyceridemia ( ≥ 500 mg / dL ) Parameter Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters N = 42 Placebo N = 42 Difference BL % Change BL % Change TG 816 - 44 . 9 788 + 6 . 7 - 51 . 6 Non - HDL - C 271 - 13 . 8 292 - 3 . 6 - 10 . 2 TC 296 - 9 . 7 314 - 1 . 7 - 8 . 0 VLDL - C 175 - 41 . 7 175 - 0 . 9 - 40 . 8 HDL - C 22 + 9 . 1 24 0 . 0 + 9 . 1 LDL - C 89 + 44 . 5 108 - 4 . 8 + 49 . 3 BL = Baseline ( mg / dL ) ; % Change = Median Percent Change from Baseline ; Difference = omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters Median % Change - Placebo Median % Change .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters 4 grams per day reduced median TG , VLDL - C , and non - HDL - C levels and increased median HDL - C from baseline relative to placebo .
Treatment with omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters to reduce very high TG levels may result in elevations in LDL - C and non - HDL - C in some individuals .
Patients should be monitored to ensure that the LDL - C level does not increase excessively .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters on the risk of pancreatitis has not been determined .
The effect of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity has not been determined .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , USP are supplied as 1 - gram transparent , oblong soft gelatin capsules with light yellowish oil printed with white ink ( Logo “ APO900 ” ) .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 s ( NDC 60505 - 3170 - 3 ) Bottles of 60 s ( NDC 60505 - 3170 - 6 ) Bottles of 120 s ( NDC 60505 - 3170 - 7 ) Store in tight , light - resistant containers at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Keep out of reach of children .
Omega - 3 Support vitamin and mineral suppliment are supplied capsules They are supplied in bottles of 60 ( 69176 - 190 - 10 ) Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Information for Patients : Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to fish and / or shellfish [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that use of lipid - regulating agents does not reduce the importance of adhering to diet [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advise patients not to alter omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules in any way and to ingest intact capsules only [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , advise patients to take it as soon as they remember .
However , if they miss one day of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , they should not double the dose when they take it .
APOTEX INC .
Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Esters Capsules , USP 1 gram Manufactured by : Accucaps Industries Limited Windsor , Ontario Canada N9C 3R5 Manufactured for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , Florida USA 33326 Revision : 4 Revised : May 2014 Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Es ters ( oh - may - ga - as - id - eth - il - es - ters ) Caps ules , USP Read this Patient Information before you start taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters capsules ?
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are a prescription medicine used along with a low fat and low cholesterol diet to lower very high triglyceride ( fat ) levels in adults .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules change your risk of having inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules prevent you from having a heart attack or stroke .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules are safe and effective in children .
Who s hould not take omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters capsules ?
Do not take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules if you are allergic to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters or any of the ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
What s hould I tell my doctor before taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Before you take omega - 3 - acid ethylesters capsules , tell your doctor if you : have diabetes .
have a low thyroid problem ( hypothyroidism ) .
have a liver problem .
have a pancreas problem .
have a certain heart rhythm problem called atrial fibrillation or flutter .
are allergic to fish or shellfish .
It is not known if people who are allergic to fish or shellfish are also allergic to omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules will harm your unborn baby .
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters can pass into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules or breastfeed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicine , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules can interact with certain other medicines that you are taking .
Using omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules with medicines that affect blood clotting ( anticoagulants or blood thinners ) may cause serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How s hould I take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
You should not take more than 4 capsules of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules each day .
Either take all 4 capsules at one time , or 2 capsules two times a day .
Do not change your dose or stop omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules without talking to your doctor .
Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules with or without food .
Take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole .
Do not break , crush , dissolve , or chew omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules whole , tell your doctor .
You may need a different medicine .
Your doctor may start you on a diet that is low in saturated fat , cholesterol , carbohydrates , and low in added sugars before giving you omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Stay on this diet while taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Your doctor should do blood tests to check your triglyceride , bad cholesterol and liver function levels while you take omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
What are the pos s ible s ide effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters caps ules ?
Omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters caps ules may caus e s erious s ide effects , including : increases in the results of blood tests used to check your liver function ( ALT and AST ) and your bad cholesterol levels ( LDL - C ) .
increases in the frequency of a heart rhythm problem ( atrial fibrillation or flutter ) may especially happen in the first few months of taking omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules if you already have that problem .
The most common side effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules include : burping upset stomach a change in your sense of taste Talk to your doctor if you have a side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How s hould I s tore omega - 3 - acid ethylesters capsules ?
Store omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules at room temperature , 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
Do not freeze omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters caps ules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the s afe and effective us e of omega - 3 - acid ethyl es ters caps ules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to www . apotex . com or call 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 .
What are the ingredients in omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters capsules ?
Active Ingredient : omega - 3 - acid ethyl esters , mostly EPA and DHA Inactive Ingredients : alpha - tocopherol ( in soybean oil ) , gelatin , glycerin , purified water and white ink .
The capsule imprinting ink contains ammonium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac glaze , simethicone and titanium dioxide .
This patient labeling has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
APOTEX INC .
Omega - 3 - Acid Ethyl Es ters Caps ules , USP 1 gram Manufactured by : Accucaps Industries Limited Windsor , Ontario Canada N9C 3R5 Manufactured for : Apotex Corp .
Weston , Florida USA 33326 Revision : 4 Revised : May 2014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
