Active ingredient : DIMETHICONE Inactive ingredients : Water , Caprilic Capric Triglyceride , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Propylene Glycol Dicaprylate Dicaprate , Cetearyl Olivate , Sorbitan Olivate , Butylene Glycol Dicaprylate / Dicaprate , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Saccharide Isomerate , Bees Wax , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Limnanthes Alba ( Meadowfoam ) Seed Oil , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Extract , Glyceryl Stearate , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Amethyst Powder , Topaz , Aluminum Silicate , Zeolite , Hematite Extract , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 , Ubiquinone , Carbomer , Isononyl Isononanoate , Triethanolamine , Tocopheryl Acetate , Allantoin , Betula Alba Juice , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Angelica Keiskei Leaf / Stem Extract , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Pinus Sylvestris Bud Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Solanum Tuberosum ( Potato ) Pulp Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Vigna Radiata Seed Extract , Propolis Extract , Disodium EDTA , Adenosine , Xanthan Gum , Polysorbate 20 , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Methyl Paraben , Butyl Paraben , Flavor Purpose : Lifting Up - Lifts up and lessen wrinkles to make your skin elastic .
Vitalizing Up - Extracts from 10 - odd plants make your skin vivid .
Softening Up - Softens up your skin with high absorption - rate .
Anti - aging - Prevents skin aging .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indications and Usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
Please apply it an adequate quantity evenly on face , throat , arms and legs at the last stage of basic makeup .
Please apply it once again on your skin at the time when you ' re going out , sports activity , and any activities of outside .
Dosage and Administration : Take up about 1 . 2 g - 1 . 5 g of it and smooth over the entire face .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
