Active Ingredient ( in each 118 mL delivered dose ) Dibasic sodium phosphate 7 g Monobasic sodium phosphate 19 g Purpose Saline laxative Uses : • Gentle relief of occasional constipation Warnings : For rectal use only Dosage Warning : Using more than one enema in 24 hours can be harmful .
As a doctor before use if you have : • a sodium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • kidney disease , heart problems , or are dehydrated • notice a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking any other drug • take this product two or more hours before or after other drugs Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • If you have rectal bleeding • you have no bowel movement after use of a laxative .
This may indicate a serious condition Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Other information : • Each 118 mL contains : Sodium 4 . 3 g • Store at room temperature 15 Deg C - 30 Deg C ( 59 Deg F - 86 Deg F ) • This product generally produces bowel movement in 15 minutes .
Directions Do not use more unless directed by a doctor See Warnings Adults and children 12 years and older - 1 bottle Children 2 to under 12 years - 1 / 2 bottle Children under 2 years - Do not use .
Consult a physician .
Inactive ingredient Water Indications and Usage • For relief of occasional constipation When using this product • Do not exceed recommended dose unless directed by a doctor .
Serious side effects may occur from excess dosage .
• Do not use more than three days .
Use of this product : CAUTION : REMOVE GREEN PROTECTIVE SHIELD BEFORE INSERTING Hold bottle upright , grasping bottle cap with fingers .
Grasp protective shield with other hand and pull gently to remove .
Positioning Left - side position : Lie on left side with knees bent and arms at rest .
( see diagram on box ) Knee - chest position : Kneel , then lower headand chest forward until left side of face is resting on surface .
Position arms comfortably .
( see diagram on box ) Administering Enema • With steady pressure , gently insert enema with tip pointing toward navel .
• Squeeze bottle until recommended dose is expelled ( it is not necessary to empty unit completely .
Bottle contains more liquid than needed for effective use .
A small amount of liquid will remain in bottle after squeezing ) .
• Remove tip from rectum .
• Stop using if tip is hard to insert .
Forcing the tip into the rectum can cause injury ( especially if you have hemorrhoids ) .
If enema tip causes rectal bleeding or pain , get immediate medical care .
• Maintain position until urge to evacuate is strong ( usually 1 to 5 minutes ) .
• If no urge is felt after 5 minutes of using , try to empty bowel .
Call a doctor promptly if no liquid comes out of the rectum after 30 minutes because dehydration could occur .
Principal Display Panel Gal Saline Enema . jpg Saline enema [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
