Rx Only DESCRIPTION Sulfadiazine is an oral sulfonamide antibacterial agent .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 500 mg sulfadiazine .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , docusate sodium , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium benzoate , sodium starch glycolate and stearic acid .
Sulfadiazine occurs as a white or slightly yellow powder .
It is odorless or nearly so and slowly darkens on exposure to light .
It is practically insoluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
The chemical name of sulfadiazine is N1 - 2 - pyrimidinylsulfanilamide .
The molecular formula is C10H10N4O2S .
It has a molecular weight of 250 . 27 .
The structural formula is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Most sulfonamides slowly darken on exposure to light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The systemic sulfonamides are bacteriostatic agents having a similar spectrum of activity .
Sulfonamides competitively inhibit bacterial synthesis of folic acid ( pteroylglutamic acid ) from aminobenzoic acid .
Resistant strains are capable of utilizing folic acid precursors or preformed folic acid .
Sulfonamides exist in the blood in 3 forms - free , conjugated ( acetylated and possibly others ) and protein bound .
The free form is considered to be the therapeutically active one .
Sulfadiazine given orally is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
After a single 2 g oral dose , a peak of 6 . 04 mg / 100 mL is reached in 4 hours ; of this , 4 . 65 mg / 100 mL is free drug .
When a dose of 100 mg / kg of body weight is given initially and followed by 50 mg / kg every 6 hours , blood levels of free sulfadiazine are about 7 mg / 100 mL .
Protein binding is 38 % to 48 % .
Sulfadiazine diffuses into the cerebrospinal fluid ; free drug reaches 32 % to 65 % of blood levels and total drug 40 % to 60 % .
Sulfadiazine is excreted largely in the urine , where concentrations are 10 to 25 times greater than serum levels .
Approximately 10 % of a single oral dose is excreted in the first 6 hours , 50 % within 24 hours and 60 % to 85 % in 48 to 72 hours .
Of the amount excreted in the urine , 15 % to 40 % is in the acetyl form .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE sulfADIAZINE Tablets , USP are indicated in the following conditions : Chancroid Trachoma Inclusion conjunctivitis Nocardiosis Urinary tract infections ( primarily pyelonephritis , pyelitis and cystitis ) in the absence of obstructive uropathy or foreign bodies , when these infections are caused by susceptible strains of the following organisms : Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Enterobacter species , Staphylococcus aureus , Proteus mirabilis and P . vulgaris .
Sulfadiazine should be used for urinary tract infections only after use of more soluble sulfonamides has been unsuccessful .
Toxoplasmosis encephalitis in patients with and without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , as adjunctive therapy with pyrimethamine .
Malaria due to chloroquine - resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum , when used as adjunctive therapy .
Prophylaxis of meningococcal meningitis when sulfonamide - sensitive group A strains are known to prevail in family groups or larger closed populations ( the prophylactic usefulness of sulfonamides when group B or C infections are prevalent is not proved and may be harmful in closed population groups ) .
Meningococcal meningitis , when the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible .
Acute otitis media due to Haemophilus influenzae , when used concomitantly with adequate doses of penicillin .
Prophylaxis against recurrences of rheumatic fever , as an alternative to penicillin .
H . influenzae meningitis , as adjunctive therapy with parental streptomycin .
IMPORTANT NOTES In vitro sulfonamide susceptibility tests are not always reliable .
The test must be carefully coordinated with bacteriologic and clinical response .
When the patient is already taking sulfonamides , follow - up cultures should have aminobenzoic acid added to the culture media .
Currently , the increasing frequency of resistant organisms limits the usefulness of antibacterial agents , including the sulfonamides , especially in the treatment of recurrent and complicated urinary tract infections .
Wide variation in blood levels may result with identical doses .
Blood levels should be measured in patients receiving sulfonamides for serious infections .
Free sulfonamide blood levels of 5 mg to 15 mg per 100 mL may be considered therapeutically effective for most infections and blood levels of 12 mg to 15 mg per 100 mL may be considered optimal for serious infections .
Twenty mg per 100 mL should be the maximum total sulfonamide level , since adverse reactions occur more frequently above this level .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfadiazine is contraindicated in the following circumstances : Hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
In infants less than 2 months of age ( except as adjunctive therapy with pyrimethamine in the treatment of congenital toxoplasmosis ) .
In pregnancy at term and during the nursing period , because sulfonamides cross the placenta and are excreted in breast milk and may cause kernicterus .
WARNINGS The sulfonamides should not be used for the treatment of group A betahemolytic streptococcal infections .
In an established infection , they will not eradicate the streptococcus and , therefore , will not prevent sequelae such as rheumatic fever and glomerulonephritis .
Deaths associated with the administration of sulfonamides have been reported from hypersensitivity reactions , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias .
The presence of such clinical signs as sore throat , fever , pallor , purpura or jaundice may be early indications of serious blood disorders .
The frequency of renal complications is considerably lower in patients receiving the more soluble sulfonamides .
PRECAUTIONS General Sulfonamides should be given with caution to patients with impaired renal or hepatic function and to those with severe allergy or bronchial asthma .
Hemolysis may occur in individuals deficient in glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase .
This reaction is dose related .
Adequate fluid intake must be maintained in order to prevent crystalluria and stone formation .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to drink an eight ounce glass of water with each dose of medication and at frequent intervals throughout the day .
Caution patients to report promptly the onset of sore throat , fever , pallor , purpura or jaundice when taking this drug , since these may be early indications of serious blood disorders .
Laboratory Tests Complete blood counts and urinalyses with careful microscopic examinations should be done frequently in patients receiving sulfonamides .
Drug Interactions Administration of a sulfonamide may increase the effect of oral anticoagulants and methotrexate , probably by displacement of these drugs from binding sites on plasma albumin .
Potentiation of the action of sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agents , thiazide diuretics and uricosuric agents may also be noted .
This may also be due to displacement of the drugs from albumin or a pharmacodynamic mechanism may play a role .
Conversely , agents such as indomethacin , probenecid and salicylates may displace sulfonamides from plasma albumin and increase the concentrations of free drug in plasma .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The sulfonamides bear certain chemical similarities to some goitrogens .
Rats appear to be especially susceptible to the goitrogenic effects of sulfonamides and long - term administration has produced thyroid malignancies in rats .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects The safe use of sulfonamides in pregnancy has not been established .
The teratogenic potential of most sulfonamides has not been thoroughly investigated in either animals or humans .
However , a significant increase in the incidence of cleft palate and other bony abnormalities in offspring has been observed when certain sulfonamides of the short , intermediate and long acting types were given to pregnant rats and mice in high oral doses ( 7 to 25 times the human therapeutic dose ) .
Nursing Mothers Sulfadiazine is contraindicated for use in nursing mothers because the sulfonamides cross the placenta , are excreted in breast milk and may cause kernicterus .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from sulfadiazine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Pediatric Use Sulfadiazine is contraindicated in infants less than 2 months of age ( except as adjunctive therapy with pyrimethamine in the treatment of congenital toxoplasmosis ) .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Blood Dyscrasias Agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , purpura , hypoprothrombinemia and methemoglobinemia .
Allergic Reactions Erythema multiforme ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) , generalized skin eruptions , epidermal necrolysis , urticaria , serum sickness , pruritus , exfoliative dermatitis , anaphylactoid reactions , periorbital edema , conjunctival and scleral injection , photosensitization , arthralgia , allergic myocarditis , drug fever and chills .
Gastrointestinal Reactions Nausea , emesis , abdominal pains , hepatitis , diarrhea , anorexia , pancreatitis and stomatitis .
C . N . S . Reactions Headache , peripheral neuritis , mental depression , convulsions , ataxia , hallucinations , tinnitus , vertigo and insomnia .
Renal Crystalluria , stone formation , toxic nephrosis with oliguria and anuria ; periarteritis nodosa and lupus erythematosus phenomenon have been noted .
Miscellaneous Reactions The sulfonamides bear certain chemical similarities to some goitrogens , diuretics ( acetazolamide and the thiazides ) and oral hypoglycemic agents .
Goiter production , diuresis and hypoglycemia have occurred rarely in patients receiving sulfonamides .
Cross - sensitivity may exist with these agents .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SYSTEMIC SULFONAMIDES ARE CONTRAINDICATED IN INFANTS UNDER 2 MONTHS OF AGE except as adjunctive therapy with pyrimethamine in the treatment of congenital toxoplasmosis .
Usual Dosage for Infants over 2 Months of Age and Children Initially , one - half the 24 - hour dose .
Maintenance , 150 mg / kg or 4 g / m2 , divided into 4 to 6 doses , every 24 hours , with a maximum of 6 g every 24 hours .
Rheumatic fever prophylaxis , under 30 kg ( 66 pounds ) , 500 mg every 24 hours ; over 30 kg ( 66 pounds ) , 1 g every 24 hours .
Usual Adult Dosage Initially , 2 g to 4 g . Maintenance , 2 g to 4 g , divided into 3 to 6 doses , every 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED sulfADIAZINE Tablets , USP for oral administration are available as 500 mg White , unscored , capsule - shaped tablets , debossed “ E 757 ” on one face and supplied as : NDC 0185 - 0757 - 30 bottles of 30 NDC 0185 - 0757 - 01 bottles of 100 NDC 0185 - 0757 - 10 bottles of 1000 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense contents in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure , as required .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 OS7190 Rev . 06 / 2020 MF0757REV06 / 20 sulfADIAZINE Tablets USP , 500 mg x 100 Tablets - Label NDC 0185 - 0757 - 01 sulfADIAZINE Tablets , USP 500 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Sandoz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
