Active ingredient Purpose Capsaicin 0 . 075 % ............................................................ Topical analgesic Uses • for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , and sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do not apply to wounds or to damaged or irritated skin .
When using this product • you may experience a burning sensation which is normal and related to the way the product works .
With regular use , this sensation generally disapperas within several days .
• avoid contact with eyes , do not get on mucous membranes , into eyes , or on contact lesnes .
If this occurs , rinse the affected area throughly with water .
• do not apply immediately before or after activities such as bathing , swimming , sun bathing , or strenuous excercise • do not apply heat to the treated areas immediately before or after use • do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue .
This can result in coughing , sneezing , tearing , throat or respiratory irritation .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a doctor • blistering occurs • difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs • severe burning persists Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • for persons under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before using • apply a thin film of cream and gently rub in until fully absorbed • for optimum relief , apply 3 to 4 times daily • best results typically occur after 2 to 4 weeks of continuous use • unless treating hands , wash hands throughly with soap and water immediately after use Other information • store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) • Lot No .
& Exp .
Date : see box or see crimp of tube Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , ethanol , isopropyl myristate , petrolatum , polyoxyl 40 stearate , sobritan monostearate , sorbitol solution , water Distributed by : United Exchange Corp .
17211 Valley View Ave . Cerritos , CA 90703 U . S . A . www . ueccorp . com Toll Free : 1 800 814 8028 Made in Korea [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
