Rx Only DESCRIPTION Pravastatin sodium tablets are one of a class of lipid - lowering compounds , the HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , which reduce cholesterol biosynthesis .
These agents are competitive inhibitors of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , the enzyme catalyzing the early rate - limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis , conversion of HMG - CoA to mevalonate .
Pravastatin sodium is designated chemically as 1 - Naphthalene - heptanoic acid , 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8 a - hexahydro - β , δ , 6 - trihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 8 - ( 2 - methyl - 1 - oxobutoxy ) - , monosodium salt , [ 1 S - [ 1α ( βS * , δS * ) , 2α , 6α , 8β ( R * ) , 8aα ] ] - .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C23 H35 NaO7 MW 446 . 52 Pravastatin sodium is an odorless , white to off - white , fine or crystalline powder .
It is a relatively polar hydrophilic compound with a partition coefficient ( octanol / water ) of 0 . 59 at a pH of 7 . 0 .
It is soluble in methanol and water ( > 300 mg / mL ) , slightly soluble in isopropanol , and practically insoluble in acetone , acetonitrile , chloroform , and ether .
Pravastatin sodium is available for oral administration as 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg , and 80 mg tablets .
Inactive ingredients include : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , meglumine , microcrystalline cellulose and starch .
The 10 mg , 20 mg and 80 mg tablets also contain D & C Yellow No 10 Aluminium Lake and the 40 mg tablet also contains D & C Yellow No 10 Aluminium Lake and FD & C Blue No . 1 - Aluminium Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cholesterol and triglycerides in the bloodstream circulate as part of lipoprotein complexes .
These complexes can be separated by density ultracentrifugation into high ( HDL ) , intermediate ( IDL ) , low ( LDL ) , and very low ( VLDL ) density lipoprotein fractions .
Triglycerides ( TG ) and cholesterol synthesized in the liver are incorporated into very low density lipoproteins ( VLDLs ) and released into the plasma for delivery to peripheral tissues .
In a series of subsequent steps , VLDLs are transformed into intermediate density lipoproteins ( IDLs ) , and cholesterol - rich low density lipoproteins ( LDLs ) .
High density lipoproteins ( HDLs ) , containing apolipoprotein A , are hypothesized to participate in the reverse transport of cholesterol from tissues back to the liver .
Pravastatin sodium produces its lipid - lowering effect in two ways .
First , as a consequence of its reversible inhibition of HMG - CoA reductase activity , it effects modest reductions in intracellular pools of cholesterol .
This results in an increase in the number of LDL - receptors on cell surfaces and enhanced receptor - mediated catabolism and clearance of circulating LDL .
Second , pravastatin inhibits LDL production by inhibiting hepatic synthesis of VLDL , the LDL precursor .
Clinical and pathologic studies have shown that elevated levels of total cholesterol ( Total - C ) , low density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - C ) , and apolipoprotein B ( Apo B - a membrane transport complex for LDL ) promote human atherosclerosis .
Similarly , decreased levels of HDL - cholesterol ( HDL - C ) and its transport complex , apolipoprotein A , are associated with the development of atherosclerosis .
Epidemiologic investigations have established that cardiovascular morbidity and mortality vary directly with the level of Total - C and LDL - C and inversely with the level of HDL - C .
Like LDL , cholesterol - enriched triglyceride - rich lipoproteins , including VLDL , IDL , and remnants , can also promote atherosclerosis .
Elevated plasma TG are frequently found in a triad with low HDL - C levels and small LDL particles , as well as in association with non - lipid metabolic risk factors for coronary heart disease .
As such , total plasma TG has not consistently been shown to be an independent risk factor for CHD .
Furthermore , the independent effect of raising HDL or lowering TG on the risk of coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined .
In both normal volunteers and patients with hypercholesterolemia , treatment with pravastatin sodium tablets reduced Total - C , LDL - C , and apolipoprotein B . Pravastatin sodium also reduced VLDL - C and TG and produced increases in HDL - C and apolipoprotein A .
The effects of pravastatin on Lp ( a ) , fibrinogen , and certain other independent biochemical risk markers for coronary heart disease are unknown .
Although pravastatin is relatively more hydrophilic than other HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , the effect of relative hydrophilicity , if any , on either efficacy or safety has not been established .
In one primary ( West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study – WOS ) 1 prevention study , pravastatin sodium has been shown to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality across a wide range of cholesterol levels ( see Clinical Studies ) .
Pharmacokinetics / Metabolism Pravastatin sodium is administered orally in the active form .
In clinical pharmacology studies in man , pravastatin is rapidly absorbed , with peak plasma levels of parent compound attained 1 to 1 . 5 hours following ingestion .
Based on urinary recovery of radiolabeled drug , the average oral absorption of pravastatin is 34 % and absolute bioavailability is 17 % .
While the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract reduces systemic bioavailability , the lipid - lowering effects of the drug are similar whether taken with , or 1 hour prior , to meals .
Pravastatin undergoes extensive first - pass extraction in the liver ( extraction ratio 0 . 66 ) , which is its primary site of action , and the primary site of cholesterol synthesis and of LDL - C clearance .
In vitro studies demonstrated that pravastatin is transported into hepatocytes with substantially less uptake into other cells .
In view of pravastatin ’ s apparently extensive first - pass hepatic metabolism , plasma levels may not necessarily correlate perfectly with lipid - lowering efficacy .
Pravastatin sodium plasma concentrations [ including : area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) , peak ( Cmax ) , and steady - state minimum ( Cmin ) ] are directly proportional to administered dose .
Systemic bioavailability of pravastatin administered following a bedtime dose was decreased 60 % compared to that following an AM dose .
Despite this decrease in systemic bioavailability , the efficacy of pravastatin administered once daily in the evening , although not statistically significant , was marginally more effective than that after a morning dose .
This finding of lower systemic bioavailability suggests greater hepatic extraction of the drug following the evening dose .
Steady - state AUCs , Cmax and Cmin plasma concentrations showed no evidence of pravastatin accumulation following once or twice daily administration of pravastatin sodium tablets .
Approximately 50 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Following single dose administration of 14 C - pravastatin , the elimination half - life ( t ½ ) for total radioactivity ( pravastatin plus metabolites ) in humans is 77 hours .
Pravastatin , like other HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , has variable bioavailability .
The coefficient of variation ( CV ) , based on between - subject variability , was 50 % to 60 % for AUC .
Pravastatin 20 mg was administered under fasting conditions in adults .
The geometric means of Cmax and AUC ranged from 23 . 3 to 26 . 3 ng / mL and from 54 . 7 to 62 . 2 ng * hr / mL , respectively .
Approximately 20 % of a radiolabeled oral dose is excreted in urine and 70 % in the feces .
After intravenous administration of radiolabeled pravastatin to normal volunteers , approximately 47 % of total body clearance was via renal excretion and 53 % by non - renal routes ( i . e . , biliary excretion and biotransformation ) .
Since there are dual routes of elimination , the potential exists both for compensatory excretion by the alternate route as well as for accumulation of drug and / or metabolites in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency .
In a study comparing the kinetics of pravastatin in patients with biopsy confirmed cirrhosis ( N = 7 ) and normal subjects ( N = 7 ) , the mean AUC varied 18 - fold in cirrhotic patients and 5 - fold in healthy subjects .
Similarly , the peak pravastatin values varied 47 - fold for cirrhotic patients compared to 6 - fold for healthy subjects .
Biotransformation pathways elucidated for pravastatin include : ( a ) isomerization to 6 - epipravastatin and the 3α – hydroxyisomer of pravastatin ( SQ 31 , 906 ) , ( b ) enzymatic ring hydroxylation to SQ 31 , 945 , ( c ) ω - 1 oxidation of the ester side chain , ( d ) β - oxidation of the carboxy side chain , ( e ) ring oxidation followed by aromatization , ( f ) oxidation of a hydroxyl group to a keto group , and ( g ) conjugation .
The major degradation product is the 3α - hydroxy isomeric metabolite , which has one - tenth to one - fortieth the HMG - CoA reductase inhibitory activity of the parent compound .
In a single oral dose study using pravastatin sodium tablet 20 mg , the mean AUC for pravastatin was approximately 27 % greater and the mean cumulative urinary excretion ( CUE ) approximately 19 % lower in elderly men ( 65 to 75 years old ) compared with younger men ( 19 to 31 years old ) .
In a similar study conducted in women , the mean AUC for pravastatin was approximately 46 % higher and the mean CUE approximately 18 % lower in elderly women ( 65 to 78 years old ) compared with younger women ( 18 to 38 years old ) .
In both studies , Cmax , Tmax and t ½ values were similar in older and younger subjects .
After two weeks of once - daily 20 mg oral pravastatin administration , the geometric means of AUC were 80 . 7 ( CV 44 % ) and 44 . 8 ( CV 89 % ) ng * hr / mL for children ( 8 - 11 years , N = 14 ) and adolescents ( 12 - 16 years , N = 10 ) , respectively .
The corresponding values for Cmax were 42 . 4 ( CV 54 % ) and 18 . 6 ng / mL ( CV 100 % ) for children and adolescents , respectively .
No conclusion can be made based on these findings due to the small number of samples and large variability .
Clinical Studies Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease In the Pravastatin Primary Prevention Study ( West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study – WOS ) , 1 the effect of pravastatin sodium on fatal and nonfatal coronary heart disease ( CHD ) was assessed in 6595 men 45 - 64 years of age , without a previous myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and with LDL - C levels between 156 - 254 mg / dL ( 4 - 6 . 7 mmol / L ) .
In this randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study , patients were treated with standard care , including dietary advice , and either pravastatin sodium tablet 40 mg daily ( N = 3302 ) or placebo ( N = 3293 ) and followed for a median duration of 4 . 8 years .
Median ( 25 th , 75 th percentile ) percent changes from baseline after 6 months of pravastatin treatment in Total C , LDL - C , TG , and HDL were - 20 . 3 ( - 26 . 9 , - 11 . 7 ) , - 27 . 7 ( - 36 . 0 , - 16 . 9 ) , - 9 . 1 ( - 27 . 6 , 12 . 5 ) , and 6 . 7 ( - 2 . 1 , 15 . 6 ) , respectively .
Pravastatin sodium significantly reduced the rate of first coronary events ( either coronary heart disease [ CHD ] death or nonfatal MI ) by 31 % [ 248 events in the placebo group ( CHD death = 44 , nonfatal MI = 204 ) vs 174 events in the pravastatin sodium group ( CHD death = 31 , nonfatal MI = 143 ) , p = 0 . 0001 ( see figure below ) ] .
The risk reduction with pravastatin sodium was similar and significant throughout the entire range of baseline LDL cholesterol levels .
This reduction was also similar and significant across the age range studied with a 40 % risk reduction for patients younger than 55 years and a 27 % risk reduction for patients 55 years and older .
The Pravastatin Primary Prevention Study included only men and therefore it is not clear to what extent these data can be extrapolated to a similar population of female patients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pravastatin sodium also significantly decreased the risk for undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures ( coronary artery bypass graft [ CABG ] surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [ PTCA ] ) by 37 % ( 80 vs 51 patients , p = 0 . 009 ) and coronary angiography by 31 % ( 128 vs 90 , p = 0 . 007 ) .
Cardiovascular deaths were decreased by 32 % ( 73 vs 50 , p = 0 . 03 ) and there was no increase in death from non - cardiovascular causes .
Secondary Prevention of Cardiovascular Events In the Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries ( PLAC I ) 4 study , the effect of pravastatin therapy on coronary atherosclerosis was assessed by coronary angiography in patients with coronary disease and moderate hypercholesterolemia ( baseline LDL - C range = 130 - 190 mg / dL ) .
In this double - blind , multicenter , controlled clinical trial angiograms were evaluated at baseline and at three years in 264 patients .
Although the difference between pravastatin and placebo for the primary endpoint ( per - patient change in mean coronary artery diameter ) and one of two secondary endpoints ( change in percent lumen diameter stenosis ) did not reach statistical significance , for the secondary endpoint of change in minimum lumen diameter , statistically significant slowing of disease was seen in the pravastatin treatment group ( p = 0 . 02 ) .
In the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study ( REGRESS ) 5 , the effect of pravastatin on coronary atherosclerosis was assessed by coronary angiography in 885 patients with angina pectoris , angiographically documented coronary artery disease and hypercholesterolemia ( baseline total cholesterol range = 160 - 310 mg / dL ) .
In this double - blind , multicenter , controlled clinical trial , angiograms were evaluated at baseline and at two years in 653 patients ( 323 treated with pravastatin ) .
Progression of coronary atherosclerosis was significantly slowed in the pravastatin group as assessed by changes in mean segment diameter ( p = 0 . 037 ) and minimum obstruction diameter ( p = 0 . 001 ) .
Analysis of pooled events from PLAC I , the Pravastatin , Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids Study ( PLAC II ) 6 , REGRESS , and the Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study ( KAPS ) 7 ( combined N = 1891 ) showed that treatment with pravastatin was associated with a statistically significant reduction in the composite event rate of fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction ( 46 events or 6 . 4 % for placebo versus 21 events or 2 . 4 % for pravastatin , p = 0 . 001 ) .
The predominant effect of pravastatin was to reduce the rate of nonfatal myocardial infarction .
Primary Hypercholesterolemia ( Fredrickson Type IIa and IIb ) Pravastatin sodium is highly effective in reducing Total - C , LDL - C and triglycerides ( TG ) in patients with heterozygous familial , presumed familial combined and non - familial ( non - FH ) forms of primary hypercholesterolemia , and mixed dyslipidemia .
A therapeutic response is seen within 1 week , and the maximum response usually is achieved within 4 weeks .
This response is maintained during extended periods of therapy .
In addition , pravastatin sodium is effective in reducing the risk of acute coronary events in hypercholesterolemic patients with and without previous myocardial infarction .
A single daily dose is as effective as the same total daily dose given twice a day .
In multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies of patients with primary hypercholesterolemia , treatment with pravastatin in daily doses ranging from 10 mg to 40 mg consistently and significantly decreased Total - C , LDL - C , TG , and Total - C / HDL - C and LDL - C / HDL - C ratios ( see Table 1 ) .
In a pooled analysis of two multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies of patients with primary hypercholesterolemia , treatment with pravastatin at a daily dose of 80 mg ( N = 277 ) significantly decreased Total - C , LDL - C , and TG .
The 25 th and 75 th percentile changes from baseline in LDL - C for pravastatin 80 mg were - 43 % and - 30 % .
The efficacy results of the individual studies were consistent with the pooled data ( see Table 1 ) .
Treatment with pravastatin sodium modestly decreased VLDL - C and pravastatin sodium across all doses produced variable increases in HDL - C ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Primary Hypercholesterolemia Studies : Dose Response of Pravastatin Sodium Once Daily AdministrationDose Total - C LDL - C HDL - C TG Mean Percent Changes From Baseline After 8 Weeks [ 1 ] Placebo ( N = 36 ) - 3 % - 4 % + 1 % - 4 % 10 mg ( N = 18 ) - 16 % - 22 % + 7 % - 15 % 20 mg ( N = 19 ) - 24 % - 32 % + 2 % - 11 % 40 mg ( N = 18 ) - 25 % - 34 % + 12 % - 24 % Mean Percent Changes From Baseline After 6 Weeks [ 2 ] Placebo ( N = 162 ) 0 % - 1 % - 1 % + 1 % 80 mg ( N = 277 ) - 27 % - 37 % + 3 % - 19 % [ 1 ] a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled study [ 2 ] pooled analysis of 2 multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies In another clinical trial , patients treated with pravastatin in combination with cholestyramine ( 70 % of patients were taking cholestyramine 20 or 24 g per day ) had reductions equal to or greater than 50 % in LDL - C .
Furthermore , pravastatin attenuated cholestyramine - induced increases in TG levels ( which are themselves of uncertain clinical significance ) .
Hypertriglyceridemia ( Fredrickson Type IV ) The response to pravastatin in patients with Type IV hyperlipidemia ( baseline TG > 200 mg / dL and LDL - C < 160 mg / dL ) was evaluated in a subset of 429 patients .
For pravastatin - treated subjects , the median ( min , max ) baseline triglyceride level was 246 . 0 ( 200 . 5 , 349 . 5 ) mg / dL ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Patients With Fredrickson Type IV Hyperlipidemia Median ( 25 th , 75 th percentile ) Percent Change From Baseline Pravastatin 40 mg ( N = 429 ) Placebo ( N = 430 ) Triglycerides - 21 . 1 ( - 34 . 8 , 1 . 3 ) - 6 . 3 ( - 23 . 1 , 18 . 3 ) Total - C - 22 . 1 ( - 27 . 1 , - 14 . 8 ) 0 . 2 ( - 6 . 9 , 6 . 8 ) LDL - C - 31 . 7 ( - 39 . 6 , - 21 . 5 ) 0 . 7 ( - 9 . 0 , 10 . 0 ) HDL - C 7 . 4 ( - 1 . 2 , 17 . 7 ) 2 . 8 ( - 5 . 7 , 11 . 7 ) Non - HDL - C - 27 . 2 ( - 34 . 0 , - 18 . 5 ) - 0 . 8 ( - 8 . 2 , 7 . 0 ) Dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III ) The response to pravastatin in two double - blind crossover studies of 46 patients with genotype E2 / E2 and Fredrickson Type III dysbetalipoproteinemia is shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Patients With Fredrickson Type III Dysbetalipoproteinemia Median ( min , max ) Percent Change From Baseline Median ( min , max ) at Baseline ( mg / dL ) Median % Change ( min , max ) Pravastatin 40 mg ( N = 20 ) Study 1 Total - C 386 . 5 ( 245 . 0 , 672 . 0 ) - 32 . 7 ( - 58 . 5 , 4 . 6 ) Triglycerides 443 . 0 ( 275 . 0 , 1299 . 0 ) - 23 . 7 ( - 68 . 5 , 44 . 7 ) VLDL - C * 206 . 5 ( 110 . 0 , 379 . 0 ) - 43 . 8 ( - 73 . 1 , - 14 . 3 ) LDL - C * 117 . 5 ( 80 . 0 , 170 . 0 ) - 40 . 8 ( - 63 . 7 , 4 . 6 ) HDL - C 30 . 0 ( 18 . 0 , 88 . 0 ) 6 . 4 ( - 45 . 0 , 105 . 6 ) Non - HDL - C 344 . 5 ( 215 . 0 , 646 . 0 ) - 36 . 7 ( - 66 . 3 , 5 . 8 ) * N = 14 Median ( min , max ) at Baseline ( mg / dL ) Median % Change ( min , max ) Pravastatin 40 mg ( N = 26 ) Study 2 Total - C 340 . 3 ( 230 . 1 , 448 . 6 ) - 31 . 4 ( - 54 . 5 , - 13 . 0 ) Triglycerides 343 . 2 ( 212 . 6 , 845 . 9 ) - 11 . 9 ( - 56 . 5 , 44 . 8 ) VLDL - C 145 . 0 ( 71 . 5 , 309 . 4 ) - 35 . 7 ( - 74 . 7 , 19 . 1 ) LDL - C 128 . 6 ( 63 . 8 , 177 . 9 ) - 30 . 3 ( - 52 . 2 , 13 . 5 ) HDL - C 38 . 7 ( 27 . 1 , 58 . 0 ) 5 . 0 ( - 17 . 7 , 66 . 7 ) Non - HDL - C 295 . 8 ( 195 . 3 , 421 . 5 ) - 35 . 5 ( - 81 . 0 , - 13 . 5 ) Pediatric Clinical Study A double - blind placebo - controlled study in 214 patients ( 100 boys and 114 girls ) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( HeFH ) , aged 8 - 18 years was conducted for two ( 2 ) years .
The children ( aged 8 - 13 years ) were randomized to placebo ( N = 63 ) or 20 mg of pravastatin daily ( N = 65 ) and the adolescents ( aged 14 - 18 years ) were randomized to placebo ( N = 45 ) or 40 mg of pravastatin daily ( N = 41 ) .
Inclusion in the study required LDL - C level > 95 th percentile for age and sex and one parent with either a clinical or molecular diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolemia .
The mean baseline LDL - C value was 239 mg / dL and 237 mg / dL in the pravastatin ( range : 151 - 405 mg / dL ) and placebo ( range : 154 - 375 mg / dL ) groups , respectively .
Pravastatin significantly decreased plasma levels of LDL - C , Total - C , and apolipoprotein B in both children and adolescents ( see Table 4 ) .
The effect of pravastatin treatment in the two age groups was similar .
Table 4 : Lipid - Lowering Effects of Pravastatin in Pediatric Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia : Least - Squares Mean Percent Change from Baseline at Month 24 ( Last Observation Carried Forward : Intent - to - Treat ) [ 1 ] 95 % CI of the Pravastatin 20 mg ( Aged 8 - 13 years ) N = 65 Pravastatin 40 mg ( Aged 14 - 18 years ) N = 41 Combined Pravastatin ( Aged 8 - 18 years ) N = 106 Combined Placebo ( Aged 8 - 18 years ) N = 108 Difference Between Combined Pravastatin and Placebo LDL - C - 26 . 04 [ 2 ] - 21 . 07 null - 24 . 07 null - 1 . 52 ( - 26 . 74 , - 18 . 86 ) TC - 20 . 75 null - 13 . 08 null - 17 . 72 null - 0 . 65 ( - 20 . 40 , - 13 . 83 ) HDL - C 1 . 04 13 . 71 5 . 97 3 . 13 ( - 1 . 71 , 7 . 43 ) TG - 9 . 58 - 0 . 30 - 5 . 88 - 3 . 27 ( - 13 . 95 , 10 . 01 ) ApoB - 23 . 16 null - 18 . 08 null - 21 . 11 null - 0 . 97 ( - 24 . 29 , - 16 . 18 ) ( N ) ( 61 ) ( 39 ) ( 100 ) ( 106 ) [ 1 ] The above least - squares mean values were calculated based on log - transformed lipid values .
[ 2 ] Significant at p ≤ 0 . 0001 when compared with placebo .
The mean achieved LDL - C was 186 mg / dL ( range : 67 - 363 mg / dL ) in the pravastatin group compared to 236 mg / dL ( range : 105 - 438 mg / dL ) in the placebo group .
The safety and efficacy of pravastatin doses above 40 mg daily have not been studied in children .
The long - term efficacy of pravastatin therapy in childhood to reduce morbidity and mortality in adulthood has not been established .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with pravastatin sodium tablets should be considered in those individuals at increased risk for atherosclerosis - related clinical events as a function of cholesterol level , the presence or absence of coronary heart disease , and other risk factors .
Primary Prevention of Coronary Events In hypercholesterolemic patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease , pravastatin sodium is indicated to : • Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction • Reduce the risk of undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures • Reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality with no increase in death from non - cardiovascular causes .
Hyperlipidemia Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated Total - C , LDL - C , Apo B , and TG levels and to increase HDL - C in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Type IIa and IIb ) . 8 Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the treatment of patients with elevated serum triglyceride levels ( Fredrickson Type IV ) .
Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III ) who do not respond adequately to diet .
Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and life - style modification for treatment of HeFH in children and adolescent patients ages 8 years and older if after an adequate trial of diet the following findings are present .
• LDL - C remains ≥ 190 mg / dL or • LDL - C remains ≥ 160 mg / dL and ; • there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or • two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the patient .
Lipid - altering agents should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol when the response to diet and other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate ( see NCEP Guidelines below ) .
Prior to initiating therapy with pravastatin , secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia ( e . g . , poorly controlled diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , nephrotic syndrome , dysproteinemias , obstructive liver disease , other drug therapy , alcoholism ) should be excluded , and a lipid profile performed to measure Total - C , HDL - C , and TG .
For patients with triglycerides ( TG ) < 400 mg / dL ( < 4 . 5 mmol / L ) , LDL - C can be estimated using the following equation : LDL - C = Total - C - HDL - C - 1 / 5 TG For TG levels > 400 mg / dL ( > 4 . 5 mmol / L ) , this equation is less accurate and LDL - C concentrations should be determined by ultracentrifugation .
In many hypertriglyceridemic patients , LDL - C may be low or normal despite elevated Total - C .
In such cases , HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors are not indicated .
Lipid determinations should be performed at intervals of no less than four weeks and dosage adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
The National Cholesterol Education Program ’ s Treatment Guidelines are summarized below : Table 5 : NCEP Treatment Guidelines : LDL - C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk CategoriesRisk Category LDL Goal ( mg / dL ) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes ( mg / dL ) LDL Levels at Which to Consider Drug Therapy ( mg / dL ) CHD [ 1 ] or CHD Risk equivalents ( 10 - year risk > 20 % ) < 100 ≥ 100 ≥ 130 ( 100 - 129 : drug optional ) [ 2 ] 2 + Risk factors ( 10 - year risk ≤ 20 % ) < 130 ≥ 130 10 - year risk 10 % - 20 % : ≥ 130 10 - year risk < 10 % : ≥ 160 0 - 1 Risk factor [ 3 ] < 160 ≥ 160 ≥ 190 ( 160 - 189 : LDL - lowering drug optional ) [ 1 ] CHD , coronary heart disease .
[ 2 ] Some authorities recommend the use of LDL - lowering drugs in this category if an LDL - C level of < 100 mg / dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes .
Others prefer use of drugs that primarily modify triglycerides and HDL - C , e . g . , nicotinic acid or fibrate .
Clinical judgement also may call for deferring drug therapy in this subcategory .
[ 3 ] Almost all people with 0 - 1 risk factor have 10 - year risk < 10 % ; thus , 10 - year risk assessment in people with 0 - 1 risk factor is not necessary .
After the LDL - C goal has been achieved , if the TG is still ≥ 200 mg / dL , non - HDL - C ( Total - C minus HDL - C ) becomes a secondary target of therapy .
Non - HDL - C goals are set 30 mg / dL higher than LDL - C goals for each risk category .
At the time of hospitalization for an acute coronary event , consideration can be given to initiating drug therapy at discharge if the LDL - C is ≥ 130 mg / dL ( see NCEP Treatment Guidelines , above ) .
Since the goal of treatment is to lower LDL - C , the NCEP recommends that LDL - C levels be used to initiate and assess treatment response .
Only if LDL - C levels are not available , should the Total - C be used to monitor therapy .
As with other lipid - lowering therapy , pravastatin sodium tablets are not indicated when hypercholesterolemia is due to hyperalphalipoproteinemia ( elevated HDL - C ) .
The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below : Category Total - C ( mg / dL ) LDL - C ( mg / dL ) Acceptable < 170 < 110 Borderline 170 - 199 110 - 129 High ≥ 200 ≥ 130 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
Active liver disease or unexplained , persistent elevations of serum transaminases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy and Lactation .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid - lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long - term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia .
Cholesterol and other products of cholesterol biosynthesis are essential components for fetal development ( including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes ) .
Since HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol , they are contraindicated during pregnancy and in nursing mothers .
Pravastatin should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive and have been informed of the potential hazards .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this class of drug , therapy should be discontinued immediately and the patient apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy ) .
WARNINGS Liver Enzymes HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , like some other lipid - lowering therapies , have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function .
In placebo - controlled trials ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) , subjects were exposed to pravastatin or placebo .
In an analysis of serum transaminase values ( ALT , AST ) , incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups ; a marked abnormality was defined as a post - treatment test value greater than three times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal , or four times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1 . 5 times the upper limit of normal .
Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency ( ≤ 1 . 2 % ) in both treatment groups .
Overall , clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic , not associated with cholestasis , and did not appear to be related to treatment duration .
In a 320 - patient placebo - controlled clinical trial , subjects with chronic ( > 6 months ) stable liver disease , due primarily to hepatitis C or non - alcoholic fatty liver disease , were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months .
The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT ≥ 2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT ( ≤ the upper limit of normal ) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT ( > the upper limit of normal ) at baseline .
By Week 36 , 12 out of 160 ( 7 . 5 % ) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 ( 12 . 5 % ) subjects receiving placebo .
Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups ( with 95 % confidence ) in the rates of ALT elevation .
It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated .
Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent ( < 6 months ) history of liver disease , have signs that may suggest liver disease ( e . g . , unexplained aminotransferase elevations , jaundice ) , or are heavy users of alcohol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics / Metabolism ) .
Such patients should be closely monitored , started at the lower end of the recommended dosing range ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adult Patients ) , and titrated to the desired therapeutic effect .
Patients who develop increased transaminase levels or signs and symptoms of active liver disease while taking pravastatin should be evaluated with a second liver function evaluation to confirm the finding and be followed thereafter with frequent liver function tests until the abnormality ( ies ) return to normal .
Should an increase in AST or ALT of three times the upper limit of normal or greater persist , withdrawal of pravastatin therapy is recommended .
Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class .
Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin - treated patients ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Myopathy , defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal , was rare ( < 0 . 1 % ) in pravastatin clinical trials .
Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias , muscle tenderness or weakness , and / or marked elevation of CPK .
Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain , tenderness or weakness , particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever .
Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected .
Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis , e . g . , sepsis ; hypotension ; major surgery ; trauma ; severe metabolic , endocrine , or electrolyte disorders ; or uncontrolled epilepsy .
The risk of myopathy during treatment with another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin , cyclosporine , niacin , or fibrates .
However , neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in three reports involving a total of 100 post - transplant patients ( 24 renal and 76 cardiac ) treated for up to two years concurrently with pravastatin 10 - 40 mg and cyclosporine .
Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies .
Further , in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin , there were no reports of myopathy .
Also , myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin ( 40 mg / day ) and gemfibrozil ( 1200 mg / day ) , although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus one of 73 patients receiving placebo .
There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo , gemfibrozil , or pravastatin monotherapy ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug interactions ) .
The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy .
The combined use of pravastatin and fibrates should be avoided unless the benefit of further alterations in lipid levels is likely to outweigh the increased risk of this drug combination .
PRECAUTIONS General Pravastatin sodium may elevate creatine phosphokinase and transaminase levels ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
This should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chest pain in a patient on therapy with pravastatin .
Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia .
Pravastatin has not been evaluated in patients with rare homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia .
In this group of patients , it has been reported that HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors are less effective because the patients lack functional LDL receptors .
Renal Insufficiency .
A single 20 mg oral dose of pravastatin was administered to 24 patients with varying degrees of renal impairment ( as determined by creatinine clearance ) .
No effect was observed on the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin or its 3α - hydroxy isomeric metabolite ( SQ 31 , 906 ) .
A small increase was seen in mean AUC values and half - life ( t ½ ) for the inactive enzymatic ring hydroxylation metabolite ( SQ 31 , 945 ) .
Given this small sample size , the dosage administered , and the degree of individual variability , patients with renal impairment who are receiving pravastatin should be closely monitored .
Information for patients Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain , tenderness or weakness , particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever ( see WARNINGS : Skeletal Muscle ) .
Drug interactions Immunosuppressive Drugs , Gemfibrozil , Niacin ( Nicotinic Acid ) , Erythromycin : See WARNINGS : Skeletal Muscle .
Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors : In vitro and in vivo data indicate that pravastatin is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 to a clinically significant extent .
This has been shown in studies with known cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( see Diltiazem and Itraconazole below ) .
Other examples of cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors include ketoconazole , mibefradil , and erythromycin .
Diltiazem : Steady - state levels of diltiazem ( a known , weak inhibitor of P450 3A4 ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin .
In this study , the AUC and Cmax of another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor which is known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 increased by factors of 3 . 6 and 4 . 3 , respectively .
Itraconazole : The mean AUC and Cmax for pravastatin were increased by factors of 1 . 7 and 2 . 5 , respectively , when given with itraconazole ( a potent P450 3A4 inhibitor which also inhibits p - glycoprotein transport ) as compared to placebo .
The mean t ½ was not affected by itraconazole , suggesting that the relatively small increases in Cmax and AUC were due solely to increased bioavailability rather than a decrease in clearance , consistent with inhibition of p - glycoprotein transport by itraconazole .
This drug transport system is thought to affect bioavailability and excretion of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors , including pravastatin .
The AUC and Cmax of another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor which is known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 increased by factors of 19 and 17 , respectively , when given with itraconazole .
Antipyrine : Since concomitant administration of pravastatin had no effect on the clearance of antipyrine , interactions with other drugs metabolized via the same hepatic cytochrome isozymes are not expected .
Cholestyramine / Colestipol : Concomitant administration resulted in an approximately 40 to 50 % decrease in the mean AUC of pravastatin .
However , when pravastatin was administered 1 hour before or 4 hours after cholestyramine or 1 hour before colestipol and a standard meal , there was no clinically significant decrease in bioavailability or therapeutic effect .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant Therapy . )
Warfarin : Concomitant administration of 40 mg pravastatin had no clinically significant effect on prothrombin time when administered in a study to normal elderly subjects who were stabilized on warfarin .
Cimetidine : The AUC0 - 12 hr for pravastatin when given with cimetidine was not significantly different from the AUC for pravastatin when given alone .
A significant difference was observed between the AUC ’ s for pravastatin when given with cimetidine compared to when administered with antacid .
Digoxin : In a crossover trial involving 18 healthy male subjects given 20 mg pravastatin and 0 . 2 mg digoxin concurrently for 9 days , the bioavailability parameters of digoxin were not affected .
The AUC of pravastatin tended to increase , but the overall bioavailability of pravastatin plus its metabolites SQ 31 , 906 and SQ 31 , 945 was not altered .
Cyclosporine : Some investigators have measured cyclosporine levels in patients on pravastatin ( up to 20 mg ) , and to date , these results indicate no clinically meaningful elevations in cyclosporine levels .
In one single - dose study , pravastatin levels were found to be increased in cardiac transplant patients receiving cyclosporine .
Gemfibrozil : In a crossover study in 20 healthy male volunteers given concomitant single doses of pravastatin and gemfibrozil , there was a significant decrease in urinary excretion and protein binding of pravastatin .
In addition , there was a significant increase in AUC , Cmax , and Tmax for the pravastatin metabolite SQ 31 , 906 .
Combination therapy with pravastatin and gemfibrozil is generally not recommended .
( See WARNINGS : Skeletal Muscle . )
In interaction studies with aspirin , antacids ( 1 hour prior to pravastatin ) cimetidine , nicotinic acid , or probucol , no statistically significant differences in bioavailability were seen when pravastatin sodium was administered .
Endocrine Function HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and , as such , might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production .
Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post - menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels .
In a study of 21 males , the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced ( p < 0 . 004 ) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin .
However , the percentage of patients showing a ≥ 50 % rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients .
The effects of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients .
The effects , if any , of pravastatin on the pituitary - gonadal axis in pre - menopausal females are unknown .
Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately .
Caution should also be exercised if an HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs ( e . g . , ketoconazole , spironolactone , cimetidine ) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones .
In a placebo - controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH , of which 106 were treated with pravastatin ( 20 mg in the children aged 8 - 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 - 18 years ) for two years , there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters [ ACTH , cortisol , DHEAS , FSH , LH , TSH , estradiol ( girls ) or testosterone ( boys ) ] relative to placebo .
There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes , testicular volume changes , or Tanner score relative to placebo .
CNS Toxicity CNS vascular lesions , characterized by perivascular hemorrhage and edema and mononuclear cell infiltration of perivascular spaces , were seen in dogs treated with pravastatin at a dose of 25 mg / kg / day .
These effects in dogs were observed at approximately 59 times the human dose of 80 mg / day , based on AUC .
Similar CNS vascular lesions have been observed with several other drugs in this class .
A chemically similar drug in this class produced optic nerve degeneration ( Wallerian degeneration of retinogeniculate fibers ) in clinically normal dogs in a dose - dependent fashion starting at 60 mg / kg / day , a dose that produced mean plasma drug levels about 30 times higher than the mean drug level in humans taking the highest recommended dose ( as measured by total enzyme inhibitory activity ) .
This same drug also produced vestibulocochlear Wallerian - like degeneration and retinal ganglion cell chromatolysis in dogs treated for 14 weeks at 180 mg / kg / day , a dose which resulted in a mean plasma drug level similar to that seen with the 60 mg / kg / day dose .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a 2 - year study in rats fed pravastatin at doses of 10 , 30 , or 100 mg / kg body weight , there was an increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in males at the highest dose ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
These effects in rats were observed at approximately 12 times the human dose ( HD ) of 80 mg , based on body surface area mg / m2 and at approximately 4 times the human dose , based on AUC .
In a 2 - year study in mice fed pravastatin at doses of 250 and 500 mg / kg / day , there was an increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in males and females at both 250 and 500 mg / kg / day ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
At these doses , lung adenomas in females were increased ( p = 0 . 013 ) .
These effects in mice were observed at approximately 15 times ( 250 mg / kg / day ) and 23 times ( 500 mg / kg / day ) the human dose of 80 mg , based on AUC .
In another 2 - year study in mice with doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( producing drug exposures approximately 2 times the human dose of 80 mg , based on AUC ) , there were no drug - induced tumors .
No evidence of mutagenicity was observed in vitro , with or without rat - liver metabolic activation , in the following studies : microbial mutagen tests , using mutant strains of Salmonella typhimurium or Escherichia coli ; a forward mutation assay in L5178Y TK + / - mouse lymphoma cells ; a chromosomal aberration test in hamster cells ; and a gene conversion assay using Saccharomyces cerevisiae .
In addition , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in either a dominant lethal test in mice or a micronucleus test in mice .
In a study in rats , with daily doses up to 500 mg / kg , pravastatin did not produce any adverse effects on fertility or general reproductive performance .
However , in a study with another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor , there was decreased fertility in male rats treated for 34 weeks at 25 mg / kg body weight , although this effect was not observed in a subsequent fertility study when this same dose was administered for 11 weeks ( the entire cycle of spermatogenesis , including epididymal maturation ) .
In rats treated with this same reductase inhibitor at 180 mg / kg / day , seminiferous tubule degeneration ( necrosis and loss of spermatogenic epithelium ) was observed .
Although not seen with pravastatin , two similar drugs in this class caused drug - related testicular atrophy , decreased spermatogenesis , spermatocytic degeneration , and giant cell formation in dogs .
The clinical significance of these findings is unclear .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X . See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Safety in pregnant women has not been established .
Pravastatin was not teratogenic in rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg daily or in rabbits at doses of up to 50 mg / kg daily .
These doses resulted in 10 X ( rabbit ) or 120 X ( rat ) the human exposure based on surface area ( mg / meter2 ) .
Rare reports of congenital anomalies have been received following intrauterine exposure to other HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors .
In a review9 of approximately 100 prospectively followed pregnancies in women exposed to simvastatin or lovastatin , the incidences of congenital anomalies , spontaneous abortions and fetal deaths / stillbirths did not exceed what would be expected in the general population .
The number of cases is adequate only to exclude a three - to - four - fold increase in congenital anomalies over the background incidence .
In 89 % of the prospectively followed pregnancies , drug treatment was initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued at some point in the first trimester when pregnancy was identified .
As safety in pregnant women has not been established and there is no apparent benefit to therapy with pravastatin during pregnancy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) , treatment should be immediately discontinued as soon as pregnancy is recognized .
Pravastatin sodium should be administered to women of child - bearing potential only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive and have been informed of the potential hazards .
Nursing mothers A small amount of pravastatin is excreted in human breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , women taking pravastatin sodium should not nurse ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of pravastatin sodium in children and adolescents from 8 - 18 years of age have been evaluated in a placebo - controlled study of 2 years duration .
Patients treated with pravastatin had an adverse experience profile generally similar to that of patients treated with placebo with influenza and headache commonly reported in both treatment groups .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients . )
Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in this population .
Children and adolescent females of childbearing potential should be counseled on appropriate contraceptive methods while on pravastatin therapy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONSand Pregnancy ) .
For dosing information see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients .
Double - blind , placebo - controlled pravastatin studies in children less than 8 years of age have not been conducted .
Geriatric use The beneficial effect of pravastatin in elderly subjects in reducing cardiovascular events and in modifying lipid profiles was similar to that seen in younger subjects .
The adverse event profile in the elderly was similar to that in the overall population .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses to pravastatin between elderly and younger patients .
Mean pravastatin AUCs are slightly ( 25 - 50 % ) higher in elderly subjects than in healthy young subjects , but mean Cmax , Tmax and t1 / 2 values are similar in both age groups and substantial accumulation of pravastatin would not be expected in the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics / Metabolism ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Pravastatin is generally well tolerated ; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient .
In 4 - month long placebo - controlled trials , 1 . 7 % of pravastatin - treated patients and 1 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy ; this difference was not statistically significant .
( See also PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric use ) .
Adverse Clinical Events Short - Term Controlled Trials All adverse clinical events ( regardless of attribution ) reported in more than 2 % of pravastatin - treated patients in placebo - controlled trials of up to four months duration are identified in Table 6 ; also shown are the percentages of patients in whom these medical events were believed to be related or possibly related to the drug : Table 6 : Adverse Events in > 2 Percent of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 10 - 40 mg in Short - Term Placebo - Controlled Trials All Events Events Attributed to Study Drug Body System / Event Pravastatin ( N = 900 ) % of patients Placebo ( N = 411 ) % of patients Pravastatin ( N = 900 ) % of patients Placebo ( N = 411 ) % of patients Cardiovascular Cardiac Chest Pain 4 . 0 3 . 4 0 . 1 0 . 0 Dermatologic Rash 4 . 0 * 1 . 1 1 . 3 0 . 9 Gastrointestinal Nausea / Vomiting 7 . 3 7 . 1 2 . 9 3 . 4 Diarrhea 6 . 2 5 . 6 2 . 0 1 . 9 Abdominal Pain 5 . 4 6 . 9 2 . 0 3 . 9 Constipation 4 . 0 7 . 1 2 . 4 5 . 1 Flatulence 3 . 3 3 . 6 2 . 7 3 . 4 Heartburn 2 . 9 1 . 9 2 . 0 0 . 7 General Fatigue 3 . 8 3 . 4 1 . 9 1 . 0 Chest Pain 3 . 7 1 . 9 0 . 3 0 . 2 Influenza 2 . 4 [ 1 ] 0 . 7 0 . 0 0 . 0 Musculoskeletal Localized Pain 10 . 0 9 . 0 1 . 4 1 . 5 Myalgia 2 . 7 1 . 0 0 . 6 0 . 0 Nervous System Headache 6 . 2 3 . 9 1 . 7 * 0 . 2 Dizziness 3 . 3 3 . 2 1 . 0 0 . 5 Renal / Genitourinary Urinary Abnormality 2 . 4 2 . 9 0 . 7 1 . 2 Respiratory Common Cold 7 . 0 6 . 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 Rhinitis 4 . 0 4 . 1 0 . 1 0 . 0 Cough 2 . 6 1 . 7 0 . 1 0 . 0 [ 1 ] Statistically significantly different from placebo .
The safety and tolerability of pravastatin sodium at a dose of 80 mg in two controlled trials with a mean exposure of 8 . 6 months was similar to that of pravastatin sodium at lower doses except that 4 out of 464 patients taking 80 mg of pravastatin had a single elevation of CK > 10 X ULN compared to 0 out of 115 patients taking 40 mg of pravastatin .
Long - Term Controlled Morbidity and Mortality Trials Adverse event data were pooled from several double - blind , placebo - controlled trials ( West of Scotland Coronary Prevention study [ WOS ] ; Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries study [ PLAC I ] ; Pravastatin , Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids study [ PLAC II ] ; Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study [ REGRESS ] ; and Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study [ KAPS ] ) involving a total of 10 , 764 patients treated with pravastatin 40 mg and 10 , 719 patients treated with placebo .
The safety and tolerability profile in the pravastatin group was comparable to that of the placebo group .
Patients were exposed to pravastatin for a mean of 4 . 0 to 5 . 1 years in WOS and 1 . 9 to 2 . 9 years in PLAC I , PLAC II , KAPS , and REGRESS .
In these long - term trials , the most common reasons for discontinuation were mild , non - specific gastrointestinal complaints .
Collectively , these seven trials represent 47 , 613 patient - years of exposure to pravastatin .
Events believed to be of probable , possible , or uncertain relationship to study drug , occurring in at least 1 % of patients treated with pravastatin in these studies are identified in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Adverse Events in ≥ 1 Percent of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 40 mg in Long - Term Placebo - Controlled Trials Body System / Event Pravastatin ( N = 10 , 764 ) % of patients Placebo ( N = 10 , 719 ) % of patients Cardiovascular Angina Pectoris 3 . 1 3 . 4 Dermatologic Rash 2 . 1 2 . 2 Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia / Heartburn 3 . 5 3 . 7 Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 2 . 5 Nausea / Vomiting 1 . 6 1 . 6 Flatulence 1 . 2 1 . 1 Constipation 1 . 2 1 . 3 General Fatigue 3 . 4 3 . 3 Chest Pain 2 . 6 2 . 6 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain ( includes arthralgia ) 6 . 0 5 . 8 Muscle Cramp 2 . 0 1 . 8 Myalgia 1 . 4 1 . 4 Nervous System Dizziness 2 . 2 2 . 1 Headache 1 . 9 1 . 8 Sleep Disturbance 1 . 0 0 . 9 Depression 1 . 0 1 . 0 Anxiety / Nervousness 1 . 0 1 . 2 Renal / Genitourinary Urinary Abnormality ( includes dysuria , frequency , nocturia ) 1 . 0 0 . 8 Respiratory Dyspnea 1 . 6 1 . 6 Upper Respiratory Infection 1 . 3 1 . 3 Cough 1 . 0 1 . 0 Special Senses Vision Disturbance ( includes blurred vision , diplopia ) 1 . 6 1 . 3 Events of probable , possible , or uncertain relationship to study drug that occurred in < 1 . 0 % of pravastatin - treated patients in the long - term trials included the following ; frequencies were similar in placebo - treated patients : Dermatologic : pruritus , dermatitis , dryness of skin , scalp hair abnormality ( including alopecia ) , urticaria .
Endocrine / Metabolic : sexual dysfunction , libido change .
Gastrointestinal : decreased appetite .
General : fever , flushing .
Immunologic : allergy , edema head / neck .
Musculoskeletal : muscle weakness .
Nervous System : paresthesia , vertigo , insomnia , memory impairment , tremor , neuropathy ( including peripheral neuropathy ) .
Special Senses : lens opacity , taste disturbance .
Postmarketing Experience In addition to the events reported above , as with other drugs in this class , the following events have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience with pravastatin sodium , regardless of causality assessment : Musculoskeletal : myopathy , rhabdomyolysis .
Nervous System : dysfunction of certain cranial nerves ( including alteration of taste , impairment of extra - ocular movement , facial paresis ) , peripheral nerve palsy .
Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , angioedema , lupus erythematosus - like syndrome , polymyalgia rheumatica , dermatomyositis , vasculitis , purpura , hemolytic anemia , positive ANA , ESR increase , arthritis , arthralgia , asthenia , photosensitivity , chills , malaise , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Gastrointestinal : pancreatitis , hepatitis , including chronic active hepatitis , cholestatic jaundice , fatty change in liver , cirrhosis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , hepatoma .
Dermatologic : a variety of skin changes ( e . g . , nodules , discoloration , dryness of mucous membranes , changes to hair / nails ) .
Reproductive : gynecomastia .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Liver Function Test abnormalities , thyroid function abnormalities .
Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in serum transaminase ( ALT , AST ) values and CPK have been observed ( see WARNINGS ) .
Transient , asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported .
Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy .
Anemia , thrombocytopenia , and leukopenia have been reported with HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors .
Concomitant Therapy Pravastatin has been administered concurrently with cholestyramine , colestipol , nicotinic acid , probucol and gemfibrozil .
Preliminary data suggest that the addition of either probucol or gemfibrozil to therapy with lovastatin or pravastatin is not associated with greater reduction in LDL - cholesterol than that achieved with lovastatin or pravastatin alone .
No adverse reactions unique to the combination or in addition to those previously reported for each drug alone have been reported .
Myopathy and rhabdomyolysis ( with or without acute renal failure ) have been reported when another HMG - CoA reductase inhibitor was used in combination with immunosuppressive drugs , gemfibrozil , erythromycin , or lipid - lowering doses of nicotinic acid .
Concomitant therapy with HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors and these agents is generally not recommended .
( See WARNINGS : Skeletal Muscle and PRECAUTIONS : Drug interactions . )
Pediatric Patients In a two - year , double - blind , placebo - controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH , the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Study and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric use . )
OVERDOSAGE To date , there has been limited experience with overdosage of pravastatin .
If an overdose occurs , it should be treated symptomatically with laboratory monitoring and supportive measures should be instituted as required .
( See WARNINGS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol - lowering diet before receiving pravastatin sodium and should continue on this diet during treatment with pravastatin sodium ( see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy ) .
Pravastatin sodium can be administered orally as a single dose at any time of the day , with or without food .
Since the maximal effect of a given dose is seen within 4 weeks , periodic lipid determinations should be performed at this time and dosage adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy and established treatment guidelines .
Adult Patients The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily .
If a daily dose of 40 mg does not achieve desired cholesterol levels , 80 mg once daily is recommended .
In patients with a history of significant renal or hepatic dysfunction , a starting dose of 10 mg daily is recommended .
Pediatric Patients Children ( Ages 8 to 13 Years , Inclusive ) The recommended dose is 20 mg once daily in children 8 to 13 years of age .
Doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population .
Adolescents ( Ages 14 to 18 Years ) The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily in adolescents 14 to 18 years of age .
Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in this patient population .
Children and adolescents treated with pravastatin should be reevaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol - lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL - C ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Hyperlipidemia , NCEP Treatment Guidelines ) .
In patients taking immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine ( see WARNINGS : Skeletal Muscle ) concomitantly with pravastatin , therapy should begin with 10 mg of pravastatin once - a - day at bedtime and titration to higher doses should be done with caution .
Most patients treated with this combination received a maximum pravastatin dose of 20 mg / day .
Concomitant Therapy The lipid - lowering effects of pravastatin sodium on total and LDL cholesterol are enhanced when combined with a bile - acid - binding resin .
When administering a bile - acid - binding resin ( e . g . , cholestyramine , colestipol ) and pravastatin , pravastatin sodium should be given either 1 hour or more before or at least 4 hours following the resin .
( See also ADVERSE REACTIONS : Concomitant Therapy . )
HOW SUPPLIED Pravastatin sodium tablets are supplied as : 40 mg tablets : Green colored , rounded – rectangular shaped tablets having biconvex surface , with “ G5 ” debossed on one surface and “ 40 ” debossed on the other surface .
They are supplied in bottles of 30 ( NDC 42254 - 131 - 30 ) and bottles of 90 ( NDC 42254 - 131 - 90 ) .
Bottles contain a desiccant canister .
STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed ( protect from moisture ) .
Protect from light .
REFERENCES 1 Shepherd J , et al .
Prevention of coronary heart disease with pravastatin in men with hypercholesterolemia ( WOS ) .
N Engl J Med 1995 ; 333 : 1301 - 7 .
4 Pitt B , et al .
Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries ( PLAC I ) : Reduction in Atherosclerosis Progression and Clinical Events .
J Am Coll Cardiol 1995 ; 26 : 1133 - 9 .
5 Jukema JW , et al .
Effects of Lipid Lowering by Pravastatin on Progression and Regression of Coronary Artery Disease in Symptomatic Man With Normal to Moderately Elevated Serum Cholesterol Levels .
The Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study ( REGRESS ) .
Circulation 1995 ; 91 : 2528 - 2540 .
6 Crouse JR , et al .
Pravastatin , lipids , and atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries : design features of a clinical trial with carotid atherosclerosis outcome ( PLAC II ) .
Controlled Clinical Trials 1992 ; 13 : 495 .
7 Salonen R , et al .
Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study ( KAPS ) .
A population - based primary preventive trial of the effect of LDL lowering on atherosclerotic progression in carotid and femoral arteries .
Research Institute of Public Health , University of Kuopio , Finland .
Circulation 1995 ; 92 : 1758 .
8 Fredrickson DS , et al .
Fat transport in lipoproteins – an integrated approach to mechanisms and disorders .
N Engl J Med 1967 ; 276 : 34 - 42 , 94 - 102 , 148 - 156 , 215 - 224 , 273 - 281 .
9 Manson JM , Freyssinges C , Ducrocq MB , Stephenson WP .
Postmarketing Surveillance of Lovastatin and Simvastatin Exposure During Pregnancy .
ReproductiveToxicology 1996 ; 10 ( 6 ) : 439 - 446 .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Generics Ltd .
Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403 513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com March 2008 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
