Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride . 13 % Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Use For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur , cunsult a physician immediately .
Do not use In the eyes , or over large areas of the body Directions Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin are .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use Inactive Ingredients Purified Water Active Indredients Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Purpose Triple Antibiotic Uses To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes ; burns Warnings For external use only Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Directions Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage Storage and Handling Other information : Store at room temperature .
Vaseline Mineral Oil Purified Water Antiseptic Towelette Antiseptic Towelette GFA Production Xiamen Co . , Ltd www . gfaproduction . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Genuine Triple Antibiotic First Aid Ointment To Help Prevent Infection Each Gram Contains : Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Net Wt .
0 . 5 g ; ( 1 / 64 oz ) Manufactured in CHINA for GENUINE FIRST AID .
Triple Antibiotic Ointment 10 pcs Net wt .
0 . 9 g ( 1 / 32 oz ) 100 Triple Antibiotic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
