Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 5 % Titanium dioxide 4 . 25 % Octisalate 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Cyclopentasiloxane , Caprylyl methicone , Glycerin , Butylene glycol , PEG - 9 dimethicone , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , HDI / trimethylol hexyllactone crosspolymer , Bis - isobutyl peg / ppg - 10 / 7 / dimethicone copolymer , Disteardimonium hectorite , Cyclohexasiloxane , Mica , Magnesium sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Silica , Alcohol denat . , Propylene carbonate , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Methylparaben , Propylene glycol , Tocopheryl acetate , Dimethicone , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Tetrasodium EDTA , Sorbitan laurate , Panax ginseng extract , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Tocopherol , Hydroxyethyl cellulose , Acetyl dipeptide - 1 cetyl ester , Morus alba extract , BHT , Palmitoyl Tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 [ + / - ( May Contain ) CI 77891 ( Titanium Dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) ] .
Description No7 Protect & Perfect Intense ADVANCED All - in - One Foundation Targets the appearance of the first signs of ageing MEDIUM COVERAGE Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + 30 ml e 1 US Fl .
Oz .
Target the appearance of the first signs of ageing with this complexion perfecting foundation powered by No7 Protect & Perfect Intense Advanced Serum technology : MATRIXYL 3000 PLUSTM . The formula with SPF50 + helps protect skin from the damaging effects of the sun .
A medium coverage foundation which instantly reduces the appearance of fine lines and pores resulting in flawless and younger - looking skin .
Information Made in France Boots Retail USA Distr .
New York , NY 10005 www . No7Beauty . com Carton carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
