Skin Bleaching Cream Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Each gram of HYDROQUINONE 4 % CREAM contains 40 mg hydroquinone , in a cream base of Alcohol , Capryloyl Glycine , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Glycerin , Glycolic Acid , Kojic Acid , Laureth - 7 , Lecithin , Polyacrylamide , Purified Water , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Sodium Hydroxide , Squalane and Xanthan Gum .
Chemically , hydroquinone is C 6 H 6 O 2 and has a molecular weight of 110 . 11 .
The chemical name is 1 , 4 dihydroxybenzene , and the structural formula of hydroquinone is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) ( Denton , C . et al . , 1952 ) 1 and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes ( Jimbow , K . et al . , 1974 ) 2 .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of bleached areas ( Parrish , J . A . et al . , 1978 ) 3 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HYDROQUINONE 4 % CREAM is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to hydroquinone or to any of the ingredients of the product .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or for children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
Since this product contains no sunscreen , an effective broad spectrum sun blocking agent should be used and unnecessary solar exposure avoided , or protective clothing should be worn to cover bleached skin in order to prevent repigmentation from occurring .
Hydroquinone may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin .
If this condition occurs , discontinue treatment and consult your physician .
The majority of patients developing this condition are Black , but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics .
PRECAUTIONS ( see WARNINGS ) General - Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin ; check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
Information for Patients - Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
To prevent repigmentation , during treatment and maintenance therapy , sun exposure on treated skin should be avoided by application of a broad spectrum sunscreen ( SPF 15 or greater ) or by use of protective clothing .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , call a physician or a poison control center immediately .
Drug Interactions - Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Studies of hydroquinone in animals have demonstrated some evidence of carcinogenicity .
The carcinogenic potential of hydroquinone in humans is unknown .
Published studies have demonstrated that hydroquinone is a mutagen and a clastogen .
Treatment with hydroquinone has resulted in positive findings for genetic toxicity in the Ames assay in bacterial strains sensitive to oxidizing mutagens , in in vitro studies in mammalian cells , and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether topical hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Topical hydroquinone should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when topical hydroquinone is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness for pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : dryness and fissuring of paranasal and infraorbital areas , erythema , and stinging .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may develop .
If this occurs , the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION HYDROQUINONE 4 % CREAM should be applied to affected areas and rubbed in well twice daily , in the morning and before bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after 2 months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
There is no recommended dosage for pediatric patients under 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED HYDROQUINONE 4 % CREAM is available in a 1 oz ( 28 . 35 g ) tube with ( NDC 42192 - 151 - 01 ) Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendation based on his / her professional knowledge and opinion , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients , excipients and chemical information provided herein .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 Rev . 0614 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 35 g Tube Carton NDC 42192 - 151 - 01 Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Rx Only SKIN BLEACHING CREAM 1 oz ( 28 . 35 g ) FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
