[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient Purpose Aluminum Sesquichlorohydrate 25 % ( Anhydrous ) Antiperspirant Uses • reduces underarm perspiration Warnings For external use only Consult a Doctor before use if you have kidney disease Do not use • immediately after shaving • on broken skin • on irritated skin When using this product • do not use in or near eyes • apply to underarms only Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply only at bedtime , see package insert • remove product cover • turn dial at bottom to raise product • apply to underarms only Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , cyclopentasiloxane , fragrance , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , hydrogenated castor oil , mineral oil , stearyl alcohol , talc Questions ?
Call 1 - 844 - 923 - 7837 Package Insert CERTAIN DRI ® ANTI - PERSPIRANT ... THE MOST EFFECTIVE ANTI - PERSPIRANT YOU CAN BUY WITHOUT A PRESCRIPTION .
Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® Roll - On contains Aluminum Chloride ( A1C13 ) , the ingredient prescribed by doctors to patients with hyperhidrosis or excessive perspiration .
Laboratory studies prove that aluminum chloride is more effective and longer lasting than other ingredients found in anti - perspirants .
Yet it is safe when used as directed .
Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® Solid contains Aluminum Sesquichlorohydrate , also effective for extended protection and better for individuals with more sensitive skin .
IMPORTANT .
Because of its therapeutic ingredients , Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® anti - perspirant is used differently from all other anti - perspirants .
For maximum effect , it is important to follow directions very carefully .
DIRECTIONS • Apply Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® anti - perspirant to underarms at bedtime .
That ’ s because Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® works while you sleep to shrink your pores so it can stop perspiration all day .
It will not wash off the next day , even after bathing or showering .
• Apply Sparingly .
Like many other therapeutic products , Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® should be applied sparingly - only a few strokes under each arm .
( 1 to 2 for the roll - on , 4 to 6 for the solid as a start ; more if necessary ) • You may not have to use Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® every day .
You may wish to begin your treatment by using Certain Dri ® every day until excessive perspiration is controlled .
Thereafter , apply Certain Dri ® every other day or as needed .
CAUTION .
Do not use immediately after shaving or showering ; or if skin is broken or irritated .
Skin area must be completely dry prior to application .
Discontinue use if rash develops .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
WARNING : Certain Dri ® can discolor clothing if it is not completely dry .
Please allow 5 to 10 minutes for the product to dry , less for Certain Dri ® Solid .
WHAT ABOUT MORNING OR DAYTIME USE ?
Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® 72 hr protection Roll - on or Solid work best when used at night .
For extra freshness throughout the day , we have specially formulated Everyday Strength Certain Dri ® A . M . Solid or Roll - on antiperspirant as a companion just for morning use .
Pair one of the Clinical Strength formula products with either Everyday Strength Certain Dri ® A . M . product for prescription strength protection and daily freshness .
All Certain Dri ® products are intended for use by both men and women .
THE CERTAIN DRI PROTECTION SYSTEM ™ If you suffer from excessive perspiration , THE CERTAIN DRI PROTECTION SYSTEM ™ offers complete underarm security and confidence under all situations : • At night to control excessive perspiration , use Clinical Strength Certain Dri ® Anti - Perspirant Roll - On or Solid • In the morning for all day freshness and deodorant protections , use Everyday Strength Certain Dri ® A . M . FACTS ABOUT PERSPIRATION PROBLEMS What causes perspiration ?
Any of the following factors , separately or in combination , can cause varying amounts of perspiration : physical exertion ; mental or emotional stress ; warm or hot temperatures ; nonporous , heavy clothing ; obesity or endocrine dysfunction ; inherited factors .
Why does perspiration occur ?
When your body “ overheats ” as a result of any of the above factors , it activates the sweat glands , especially those in the underarm area ( axillary glands ) , to produce perspiration which is emitted through your skin pores .
The perspiration then evaporates to produce a cooling effect , thereby reducing the body ' s skin temperature .
What causes underarm odor ?
In its freshly released state , perspiration is generally odorless .
However , when it exists in a confined and damp underarm area , it decomposes and causes odor - producing bacteria to form .
Combined with natural salt and uric acid which are also emitted through the pores , the perspiration then takes on its familiar unpleasant odor .
What is a deodorant ?
A deodorant is any kind of fragrance used to cover up or deodorize one odor with another .
While perfumes are generally used , some people resort to herb , fruit or musk aromas to disguise underarm odor .
Rarely , however , can a deodorant inhibit perspiration or retard bacterial growth and odor for more than a very brief time .
What is an anti - perspirant ?
A true anti - perspirant , as its name implies , should - like Certain Dri ® - shrink and close off underarm pores to inhibit the flow of perspiration .
The more effective the formulation , the more effective and longer lasting the anti - perspirant relief will be .
Generally an anti - perspirant is also a deodorant because it prevents perspiration which is the source of odor - causing bacteria .
However , a deodorant is not an anti - perspirant .
Is it safe to close off underarm pores ?
Yes .
Both underarms represent an area of only about 6 to 8 sq . in .
Nature simply and safely redistributes the perspiration around to the other 2 , 700 ± sq . in .
of the body ’ s skin surface .
For additional information about Certain Dri ® visit our website : www . certaindri . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CERTAIN DRI ® EXTRA STRENGTH CLINICAL # 1 Doctor recommended * Extra effective antiperspirant that may be more gentle on sensitive skin Up to 72 hour protection SOLID Antiperspirant | Deordorant POWDER FRESH 1 . 7 OZ .
( 48 g ) Who is Certain Dri ® Extra Strength Clinical for ?
Anyone suffering from excessive sweating looking for extra strength protection that may be more gentle on sensitive skin .
Directions : For maximum protection and efficacy , apply Certain Dri ® Extra Strength Clinical to each underarm before bed .
Certain Dri ® Extra Strength Clinical works while you sleep , to help stop sweating before it starts .
To reduce the risk of irritation , be sure underarms are completely dry before applying .
Learn more at : www . certaindri . com 1705 D Certain Dri ® Extra Strength Clinical helps stop excessive sweating for up to 72 hours .
Doctors recommend Certain Dri ® by name more than any other clinical antiperspirant brand .
* Satisfaction Guaranteed .
If you are not completely satisfied , we will replace or refund your purchase .
If you have any questions , visit www . certaindri . com or call 1 - 844 - 923 - 7837 .
NEW LOOK !
Formerly known as : Certain Dri ® Clinical Strength Solid * Based on a 2017 independent study , Certain Dri ® is the # 1 doctor recommended brand for excessive sweating .
CERTAIN DRI ® Certain Dri ® Extra Strength Clinicalhelps stop excessive sweating for up to 72 hours .
EXTRA STRENGTH CLINICAL Distributed by : Clarion Brands , LLC 27070 Miles Rd . , Suite A , Solon , OH 44139 © 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CERTAIN DRI ® EXTRA STRENGTH CLINICAL # 1 Doctor recommended Extra effective antiperspirant that may be more gentle on sensitive skin Up to 72 hour protection SOLID Antiperspirant | Deodorant POWDER FRESH 1 . 7 OZ .
( 48 g ) 1700 D [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1707 C Distributed by : Clarion Brands , LLC 27070 Miles Rd . , Suite A , Solon , OH 44139 © 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
