Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octocrylene 10 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscree with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , disopropyl adipate , cyclopentasiloxane , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , titanium dioxide , alumina , simethicone , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , triethanolamine , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , carbomer , disodium EDTA Package / Label Principal Display Panel DG ™ beauty Daily Facial Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen • For all skin types • Non - greasy and lightweight • Protects from UVA and UVB rays Compare to Cetaphil ® Daily Facial Moisturizer SPF 15 ingredients * 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Galderma ® , owner of the registered trademark Cetaphil .
DISTRIBUTED BY : DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 MANUFACTURED IN ISRAEL 2T326 VT C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
