Active ingredient Clotrimazole 1 . 0 % Purpose Antifungal Uses ■ For the cure of : ■ athlete ’ s foot ■ jock itch ■ ringworm ■ Relieves : ■ itching ■ scaling ■ cracking ■ burning ■ discomfort ■ soreness ■ irritation ■ redness Warnings For external use only Do not use ■ if pregnant ■ if nursing ■ on children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes ■ do not use the following on the skin : ■ soap ■ alcohol ■ hydrogen peroxide ■ iodine or sulphur compounds Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ irritation occurs ■ there is no improvement within ■ 2 weeks when used for jock itch ■ 4 weeks when used for athlete ’ s foot or ringworm Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Adults and children 12 years of age or older : ■ Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly .
In areas where the skin is thickened , soak in warm water to soften it first ■ Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
■ For athlete ’ s foot : ■ Pay special attention to spaces between the toes .
It is useful to apply at night on cotton balls wedged between the toes .
■ Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
■ Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
■ For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm : use daily for 4 weeks .
■ For jock itch : use daily for 2 weeks .
■ If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
■ This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
■ Children under 12 years : Do not use unless directed by a doctor Other information ■ keep container tightly closed ■ store between 2º and 30º C ( 36º to 86º F ) Inactive ingredients Benzoic acid , camphor , chimonanthus praecox flower oil , petrolatum , salicylic acid , and yellow wax .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am - 5 pm ■ you may also report serious side effects to this phone number HUA TUO XIAN GAO ANTIFUNGAL OINTMENT Clotrimazole 1 . 0 % Cure Athlete ’ s Foot Jock Itch & Ringworm NDC 55614 - 650 - 01 20 g ( 0 . 7 oz ) Odorless Non - Greasy [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
