Rx Only Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment contains 30 mg salicylic acid per gram in a base containing : PEG - 8 , PEG - 75 , Benzoic acid and Quercus Alba Bark Extract .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism of action of Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment is not known .
While the following animal data are available , their clinical significance is unknown .
It has been demonstrated that Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment significantly reduces methicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) protected by biofilms in wounds using porcine models .
In addition , Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment stimulates re - epithelialization of second - degree burns in porcine models .
CLINICAL STUDIES A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study evaluated the rate of wound re - epithelialization .
Four partial - thickness wounds ( 2 × 2 cm & 0 . 2 mm deep ) were created under local anesthesia on the thighs of 13 normal , healthy , male volunteers with an electrokeratome .
Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment substantially increased the rate of re - epithelialization by 63 % over the vehicle alone ( p < 0 . 01 ) and 77 % over untreated control ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE An external treatment for the inflammation and irritation associated with many common forms of dermatitis , including certain eczematoid conditions .
These conditions include complications associated with pyodermas .
Indicated also in the treatment of insect bites , burns and fungal infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment is contraindicated for use in those patients who are hypersensitive to topical polyethylene glycols .
PRECAUTIONS For external use only .
Not to be used in eyes .
DRUG INTERACTIONS It is not known if Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment interacts with other topical medications applied to the treatment area .
The use of Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment with other topical drugs has not been studied .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment is generally well tolerated and non - irritating .
A small percentage of patients may experience a temporary burning sensation upon application of the ointment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients should be advised to follow these step - by - step instructions for application of Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment : Hands should be washed thoroughly .
When using tubes , the tip of the tube should not come into contact with the area to be treated ; the tube should be recapped tightly after each application .
If applying with a cotton - tipped applicator , which is recommended , use once and discard .
Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment should be applied twice a day for best results .
Gently rinse the area to be treated with saline or water and then pat dry .
Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment can be applied directly to the wound or placed on dry gauze and then placed on the wound .
Wet - Packs or Wet - To - Dry Dressings are not recommended since they will dilute the ointment and decrease its effectiveness .
Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment is designed to provide moisture to the wound .
Spread a generous quantity of Salicylic Acid 3 % topical ointment evenly over the desired area to yield a thin continuous layer of approximately 1 / 8 of an inch of thickness .
There may be a mild warming sensation , or slight burning , to the treated area for 3 - 5 minutes after application .
If irritation occurs or symptoms persist after 10 days , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Try to keep the area being treated clean and exposed to air when possible .
Apply an appropriate dressing to shield the area from clothes or exposure to water or dirt .
If there is no improvement in the wound within 7 days , consult your physician for further evaluation of the wound .
If there is no response to the ointment at all , then the wound should be re - evaluated for other contributing factors to the wound healing process .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients has not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED 30 g tube NDC 72056 - 030 - 01 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Manufactured for : Syntenza Pharmaceuticals LLC Edina , MN 55436 , USA Rev . 06 / 18 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 4 g Tube Carton SYNTENZA NDC 72056 - 030 - 01 Salicylic Acid 3 % Topical Ointment Net Wt .
1 oz .
( 28 . 4 g ) Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
