1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carticel ® is indicated for the repair of symptomatic cartilage defects of the femoral condyle ( medial , lateral or trochlea ) , caused by acute or repetitive trauma , in patients who have had an inadequate response to a prior arthroscopic or other surgical repair procedure ( e . g . , debridement , microfracture , drilling / abrasion arthroplasty , or osteochondral allograft / autograft ) .
Carticel should be used only in conjunction with debridement , placement of a periosteal flap and rehabilitation .
The independent contributions of the autologous cultured chondrocytes and other components of the therapy to outcome are unknown .
Carticel is not indicated for the treatment of cartilage damage associated with generalized osteoarthritis .
Carticel is not recommended for patients with total meniscectomy unless surgically reconstructed prior to or concurrent with Carticel implantation .
Carticel is an autologous cellular product indicated for the repair of symptomatic cartilage defects of the femoral condyle ( medial , lateral or trochlea ) , caused by acute or repetitive trauma , in patients who have had an inadequate response to a prior arthroscopic or other surgical repair procedure ( e . g . , debridement , microfracture , drilling / abrasion arthroplasty , or osteochondral allograft / autograft ) .
( 1 ) Carticel should be used only in conjunction with debridement , placement of a periosteal flap and rehabilitation .
( 1 ) Carticel is not indicated for : • treatment of cartilage damage associated with generalized osteoarthritis .
( 1 ) • patients with total meniscectomy unless surgically reconstructed prior to or concurrent with Carticel implantation .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Autologous Implantation Only For Autologous Implantation Only • Carticel should be administered only by physicians who have completed Vericel ' s Surgeon Training Program .
( 2 . 3 ) • Implantation of the Carticel product is performed during arthrotomy and requires both preparation of the defect bed and a periosteal flap to secure the implant .
• See the Carticel Surgical Manual , Vericel document # 65021 for instructions on the performance of these procedures .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Patients in the Swedish series [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] received a wide range of cell doses per cm2 of defect .
Available data on 70 of 78 patients with femoral condyle defects showed a median dose of 1 . 6 million cells / cm2 of defect .
The middle 80 % of these patients received from 0 . 64 million to 3 . 3 million cells / cm2 .
Each Carticel finished product vial contains approximately 12 million cells .
Vericel provides a single vial for each defect measuring ≤ 7 cm2 .
Two vials of Carticel are provided for defects 7 to 14 cm2 , and three vials are provided for defects > 14 cm2 .
This is based on Vericel ' s greater than 10 years of experience with Carticel .
2 . 2 Handling Precautions and Preparation 2 . 2 . 1 Handling Precautions The Carticel product is intended solely for autologous use .
Prior to Carticel implantation , match the patient name and ID number on the certificate of analysis to the patient ' s chart and the patient ID on the shipping box , transport cylinder and vial .
Health care providers should employ universal precautions in handling the biopsy samples and the Carticel product [ see Risk of Transmissible Infectious Diseases ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Refer to the Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) Sections for additional considerations regarding the use of Carticel .
2 . 2 . 2 Preparation NOTE : The exterior of the Carticel vial containing the cultured cells is NOT sterile .
Follow strict sterile technique protocols .
When treating a defect that requires multiple vials of cells , resuspend , aspirate and inject one vial at a time .
• Remove red plastic lid from vial .
Wipe the vial surface and lid with alcohol .
• Inspect vial contents for particulates , discoloration or turbidity .
The cellular product appears as a yellowish clump in the bottom of the vial .
Do not administer if contents appear turbid prior to cell suspension .
• While holding vial in a vertical position , insert the needle of the intraspinal catheter into the vial .
The needle must be positioned just above the fluid level .
Slowly remove the inner needle from the catheter , leaving flexible tip behind .
Attach a tuberculin syringe to catheter .
• Lower the catheter tip into the media and position just above the cell pellet .
Aspirate all the medium from the vial leaving only the cell pellet behind .
Slowly expel medium back into the vial .
This action will break the cell pellet and resuspend the cells in the medium .
• Lower the catheter tip to the base of the vial and aspirate all contents into syringe , leaving the vial empty .
Slowly inject the contents into the vial again .
This will assure complete suspension of the cells .
Repeat these steps as needed to ensure all cells are resuspended .
Cell resuspension is complete when cell particles are no longer apparent , and the medium is a consistent , " cloudy " mixture .
Aspirate all contents of vial into syringe .
Always hold syringe vertical to keep an air pocket at the proximal end of syringe .
2 . 3 Administration Implantation of the Carticel product should be restricted to physicians who have completed Vericel ' s Surgeon Training Program .
Implantation of the Carticel ® product is performed during arthrotomy and requires both preparation of the defect bed and a periosteal flap to secure the implant .
Complete hemostasis must be achieved prior to periosteal fixation and cell implantation .
See the Carticel Surgical Manual , Vericel document # 65021 for instructions on the performance of these procedures .
2 . 3 . 1 Implantation • Insert the catheter tip through the superior opening of the periosteal chamber at the site of the defect .
Advance catheter to most inferior aspect of the defect .
• Slowly inject a cell dose while moving the catheter tip from side to side and withdrawing the catheter proximally .
This will ensure an even distribution of the cells throughout the defect .
• Complete the implantation by closing the superior opening of the periosteum as instructed .
See Carticel Surgical Manual , Vericel document # 65021 .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS One vial of Carticel ( autologous cultured chondrocytes ) contains approximately 12 million cells .
Each Carticel ® vial of autologous cultured chondrocytes contains approximately 12 million cells per vial .
( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Carticel should not be used in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to gentamicin , other aminoglycosides or materials of bovine origin .
Gentamicin is added to both the cartilage biopsy transport media and in the culture media used during the processing of Carticel .
Residual quantities of gentamicin up to 5 µg / mL are present in the Carticel product .
Fetal bovine serum is a component in the culture medium used to propagate the autologous chondrocytes .
Trace quantities of bovine - derived proteins may be present in the Carticel product .
Do not use in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to gentamicin , other aminoglycosides or materials of bovine origin .
( 4 ) 5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • The necessity of subsequent surgical procedures , primarily arthroscopic , following Carticel implantation is common .
In the STAR study , 49 % of patients underwent a subsequent surgical procedure , irrespective of relationship to Carticel .
( 5 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) • Carticel is not routinely tested for transmissible infectious diseases and may transmit diseases to the health care provider handling the product .
Carticel is intended for autologous use only .
( 5 . 2 ) • Pre - existing conditions , including meniscal tears , joint instability , or malalignment should be assessed and treated prior to or concurrent with Carticel implantation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Carticel should not be used in patients who have previously had cancer in the bones , cartilage , fat or muscle of the treated limb .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Subsequent Surgical Procedures Review of the data from the Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) and the Registry Based Study ( RBS ) [ see Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] as well as the Carticel worldwide experience ( adverse reactions solicited through the Cartilage Repair Registry ( CRR ) and spontaneous reports ) as of November 21 , 1997 showed that the occurrence of a subsequent surgical procedure , primarily arthroscopic , following Carticel implantation is common .
In the STAR study , 49 % of patients underwent a subsequent surgical procedure , irrespective of relationship to Carticel ( 6 . 2 ) .
Symptoms leading to arthroscopic intervention included catching , locking , clicking or pain .
Patients who develop clinical signs of tissue hypertrophy , including catching or clicking , should be evaluated and arthroscopy may be indicated for treatment or further assessment .
5 . 2 Risk of Transmissible Infectious Diseases The Carticel product is intended solely for autologous use .
Patients undergoing the surgical procedures associated with Carticel are not routinely tested for transmissible infectious diseases .
Therefore , the cartilage biopsy and the Carticel product may carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases to the health care provider handling these tissues .
Accordingly , health care providers should employ universal precautions in handling the biopsy samples and the Carticel product .
5 . 3 Pre - surgical Assessment of Comorbidities The following conditions should be assessed and treated prior to or concurrent with implantation with Carticel : • Unstable meniscus tears should be repaired or resected .
• If the patient has had a total meniscectomy , absent meniscus should be reconstructed .
• Instability of the knee may adversely affect the success of the procedure and should be corrected .
The anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments should be free of laxity as well as stable and intact .
It is recommended that cruciate deficiencies be corrected .
• Abnormal weight - distribution within the joint may adversely affect the success of the procedure and should be corrected .
The tibial / femoral joint should be properly aligned .
When treating trochlear defects , abnormal patellar mechanics should be assessed and corrected .
5 . 4 Product Safety and Sterility The safety of the Carticel product is unknown in patients with malignancy in the area of cartilage biopsy or implant .
The potential exists for in vitro expansion and subsequent implantation of malignant or dysplastic cells present in biopsy tissue .
In addition , implantation of normal autologous chondrocytes could theoretically stimulate growth of malignant cells in the area of the implant , although there have been no reported incidents in humans or animals .
The Carticel product is shipped following a preliminary sterility test with a 48 - hour incubation to determine absence of microbial growth .
Final ( 14 day incubation ) sterility test results are not available at the time of implantation .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Information on the safety of implanted autologous chondrocytes is derived from the Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , the Cartilage Repair Registry , the Swedish Series , and post - marketing adverse event reporting .
The most common serious adverse events ( > 5 % of patients ) derived from the STAR study include arthrofibrosis / joint adhesion , graft overgrowth , chondromalacia or chondrosis , cartilage injury , graft complication , meniscal lesion and graft delamination .
Only serious adverse events were collected in this study .
The most common serious adverse events ( > 5 % of patients ) , derived from the STAR study include arthrofibrosis / joint adhesions , graft overgrowth , chondromalacia or chondrosis , cartilage injury , graft complication , meniscal lesion and graft delamination .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Vericel at 1 - 800 - 453 - 6948 or contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The adverse reaction rates as well as the rate and type of subsequent surgical procedures from Carticel ® studies of different designs cannot be directly compared amongst each other .
Adverse reaction data from these studies do , however , provide a basis for identifying adverse reactions that may be related to product use and for estimating their frequency .
Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) In the STAR study [ see Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) ( 14 . 2 . 2 ) ] , patients who had experienced an inadequate response to a prior cartilage repair procedure underwent Carticel implantation to the index lesion .
A total of 154 patients were implanted with Carticel ; 28 patients discontinued the study early .
The numbers of patients completing the 24 and 48 month follow - up visits are 136 and 115 , respectively .
Mean patient age was 35 years at consent .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 135 ; 88 % ) and male ( 106 ; 69 % ) .
Seventy - six ( 76 ) ( 49 % of 154 ) patients underwent 113 subsequent surgical procedures ( SSPs ) on the treated knee , irrespective of relationship to Carticel , during the 4 year follow - up .
Of the 76 patients , 52 patients had 1 SSP , 15 patients had 2 SSPs , and 9 patients had 3 or more SSPs .
Sixty - one ( 61 ) ( 80 % ) of the 76 patients who had an SSP underwent a procedure within the first 24 months after implantation .
The majority of patients , 83 % ( 63 of the 76 ) , underwent an arthroscopy or manipulation under anesthesia only .
Table 1 shows the interventions during SSPs in > 2 % of patients .
Table 1 : Interventions during Subsequent Surgical Procedures , Regardless of Relationship , in > 2 % of PatientsIntervention % of 154 Patients Debridement of Cartilage Lesion [ 1 ] 31 % ( 47 / 154 ) Lysis of Adhesions 14 % ( 21 / 154 ) Synovectomy / Synovial Plica Excision 12 % ( 19 / 154 ) Other Debridement [ 2 ] 10 % ( 16 / 154 ) Chondroplasty 6 % ( 10 / 154 ) Meniscectomy 6 % ( 10 / 154 ) Loose Body Removal 5 % ( 7 / 154 ) Microfracture – Index Lesion 5 % ( 7 / 154 ) Scar Tissue Removal 5 % ( 7 / 154 ) Release of Patellar Retinaculum 4 % ( 6 / 154 ) Hardware Removal 4 % ( 6 / 154 ) Microfracture – New Lesion 4 % ( 6 / 154 ) Osteotomy 3 % ( 5 / 154 ) [ 1 ] Includes debridement of index lesion and other defects [ 2 ] Includes debridement of other joint structures in addition to cartilage ( e . g . , patellar fat pad ) Lysis of adhesions was the most frequent surgical intervention performed in the first 6 months .
After 6 months , cartilage debridement was the most frequently performed intervention .
In the STAR study , 61 % ( 46 / 76 ) of patients who required an SSP after Carticel did not meet failure criteria by either modified Cincinnati score or surgical criteria ( e . g . , graft delamination or surgical procedure violating the subchondral bone ) .
The most clinically significant interventions or findings involving the Carticel graft or periosteal patch are as follows : 3 Carticel grafts were completely removed and 1 was partially removed due to delamination .
Partial delamination or fraying of the graft or periosteal patch was reported in 10 additional patients .
Four ( 4 ) of these patients underwent reattachment / repair of the periosteal patch .
Finally , a partially intact graft was found in 1 patient who was re - implanted .
Detailed lists of interventions and findings that may have been associated with the graft or periosteal patch are presented in Tables 1 and 2 , respectively .
Table 2 shows the serious adverse events ( SAEs ) that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients , regardless of relationship to study treatment .
Table 2 : Most Frequent Serious Adverse Events ( in ≥ 5 % of Patients ) , Regardless of Relationship , in the STAR StudySerious Adverse Events % of 154 Patients Arthrofibrosis / Joint Adhesions 16 % ( 25 / 154 ) Graft Overgrowth 15 % ( 23 / 154 ) Chondromalacia or Chondrosis 12 % ( 18 / 154 ) Cartilage Injury [ 1 ] 11 % ( 17 / 154 ) Graft Complication [ 2 ] 10 % ( 15 / 154 ) Meniscal Lesion 8 % ( 12 / 154 ) Graft Delamination 6 % ( 9 / 154 ) Osteoarthritis 5 % ( 7 / 154 ) [ 1 ] Encompasses cartilage injuries throughout the joint e . g . , onset of new defects and tibial plateau fibrillation [ 2 ] Includes periosteal patch complications , graft fraying or fibrillation Registry Based Study ( RBS ) Data from a cohort of 97 Carticel ® treated patients , who were retrospectively evaluated in the Registry Based Study [ see Registry - Based Study ( RBS ) ( 14 . 2 . 1 ) ] , showed that 39 % ( 38 / 97 ) of patients had a SSP within 3 years of which 63 % ( 24 / 38 ) were assessed as related to Carticel .
Shaving or trimming ( debridement ) of overgrown tissue ( hypertrophic ) commonly relieved patients ' symptoms .
In the RBS , 67 % ( 16 / 24 ) of patients who required arthroscopy after Carticel had a good clinical benefit in terms of improved function and relief of symptoms .
Table 3 shows the findings at surgery for the 38 patients who underwent a surgical procedure after Carticel .
Table 3 : Most Frequent Findings ( in ≥ 5 % of Patients ) at Subsequent Surgical Procedures in the Registry Based StudySymptoms or Surgical Findings ( MedDRA preferred term ) % of 97 Patients Graft Overgrowth 10 % ( 10 / 97 ) Partial Graft Delamination 8 % ( 8 / 97 ) Chondromalacia 8 % ( 8 / 97 ) Arthrofibrosis / Joint Adhesions 8 % ( 8 / 97 ) Arthralgia 7 % ( 7 / 97 ) Synovitis 6 % ( 6 / 97 ) Meniscal Lesion 5 % ( 5 / 97 ) Loose Body 5 % ( 5 / 97 ) Swedish Series Of 153 patients treated with autologous cultured chondrocyte implantation in the Swedish Series [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , 22 % ( 34 / 153 ) of patients experienced the adverse reactions presented in Table 4 below .
Table 4 : Initial ACI Experience Swedish Series Serious Adverse Reactions ( Occurring at a frequency of 1 % or more ) Serious Adverse Reactions % of 153 Patients Tissue Hypertrophy See below Intra - articular Adhesions 8 % Superficial Wound Infection 3 % Hypertrophic Synovitis 3 % Post - operative Hematoma 2 % Adhesions of the Bursa Suprapatellaris 2 % Hypertrophic Synovium 1 % About 1 % of patients developed severe adhesions resulting in " frozen knee " and requiring lysis .
Adverse reactions noted at a level of less than 1 % included keloid - like scar , pannus formation , significant swelling of the joint , pain with post - operative fever , and hematoma following arthroscopy .
In this series , arthroscopy was scheduled to be undertaken at 18 months of follow - up , regardless of patient symptoms .
Of the patients who had arthroscopy , 43 % ( 37 / 86 ) had hypertrophic tissue .
Forty of the 85 patients had femoral condyle defects .
Of these , 25 % ( 10 / 40 ) of patients had some hypertrophic tissue noted at follow - up arthroscopy .
Some patients had clinical symptoms that included painful crepitations or catching , and these symptoms generally resolved after arthroscopic resection of the hypertrophic tissue .
Ten percent ( 10 % ) of patients with hypertrophy required additional treatment after hypertrophic tissue recurred following initial resection .
Not all patients with tissue hypertrophy noted at arthroscopy were symptomatic .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Carticel ® .
Most of these reactions are reported voluntarily , and it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Furthermore , the reported frequency of spontaneous reports underestimates the true frequency of adverse reactions .
As of July 31 , 2006 , approximately 12 , 500 patients have been implanted with Carticel and 559 patients have reported serious adverse reactions after treatment .
The most frequently identified operative findings in these patients , in descending order of frequency , were graft overgrowth , graft delamination ( partial or complete ) , arthrofibrosis , joint adhesions , meniscus lesion or tear , graft complications , chondromalacia , loose body in knee joint , and joint malalignment .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use in children or patients over age 65 has not been assessed .
( 8 ) 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Carticel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Autologous cultured chondrocytes , the Carticel product , are derived from in vitro expansion of chondrocytes harvested from the patient ' s normal , femoral articular cartilage .
Biopsies from a lesser - weight bearing area are the source of chondrocytes , which are isolated , expanded through cell culture , and implanted into articular cartilage defects beneath an autologous periosteal flap .
Prior to final packaging , cell viability is assessed to be at least 80 % .
Each single use container of autologous cultured chondrocytes has approximately 12 million cells aseptically processed and suspended in 0 . 4 mL of sterile , buffered Dulbecco ' s Modified Eagles Medium ( DMEM ) .
Both the biopsy transport media and the cell culture media contain gentamicin .
Residual quantities of gentamicin up to 5 µg / mL may be present in the Carticel product .
12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyaline cartilage forms the articular surface of the femoral condyle .
Studies have shown that implantation of autologous chondrocytes into the articular defect can result in the development of hyaline - like cartilage [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 Normal hyaline cartilage consists of chondrocytes ( ≤ 5 % total volume ) and extracellular matrix ( ≥ 95 % total volume ) .
The matrix contains a variety of macromolecules , including type II collagen and proteoglycan .
The structure of the matrix allows the hyaline cartilage to absorb shock and withstand shearing and compression forces .
Normal hyaline cartilage also has an extremely low coefficient of friction at the articular surface .
Damage to articular cartilage from acute or repetitive trauma often results in pain and disability .
However , because hyaline cartilage is avascular , spontaneous healing of large defects is not believed to occur in humans .
A variety of surgical procedures have been used in attempts to promote repair of articular cartilage , and a few studies have evaluated the histology resulting from these interventions .
Generally , procedures such as marrow stimulation techniques ( MST ) have been shown to produce fibrocartilage or hybrid mixtures of fibrocartilage and hyaline cartilage .
Published data show that autologous chondrocyte implantation ( ACI ) is more likely than MST to result in hyaline - like cartilage at the repair site .
1 , 2 , 4 , 5 However , because of differences in study design , lesion size and concomitant patient conditions , these data are not sufficient to draw conclusions concerning the long - term correlation of histology and clinical outcomes .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity or mutagenicity data are available for Carticel in animals or in humans .
No studies on the effects of Carticel on fertility have been conducted .
13 . 2 Animal Pharmacology and / or Toxicology Pre - Approval Studies Bioactivity of autologous chondrocytes implanted under a periosteal patch was reported in the BLA for three rabbit studies6 , 7 , 8 of up to 52 weeks duration post - implant and one dog study9 of up to 18 months duration post - implant .
Rabbit Studies • Histologic evaluations were performed at 8 , 12 and 52 weeks .
Improved healing of experimental defects implanted with autologous chondrocytes was observed compared to periosteal flap alone at 8 , 12 and 52 weeks .
Dog Study • Histologic evaluations were performed at 6 and 12 weeks and 12 and 18 months .
Autologous chondrocytes showed improved healing compared to both empty defects and to defects covered with periosteum alone at 6 and 12 weeks .
However , by the 12 and 18 month evaluations , the repair tissue had deteriorated so that no advantage of ACI over periosteum alone controls was demonstrated .
Beyond histologic variability of the defect site , no adverse tissue reaction was identified in any animals in these studies .
Post - Approval Studies Five additional large animal , post - approval studies were performed .
Goat Studies • Three of four goat studies were 16 weeks in duration .
In the fourth study , the goats were sacrificed immediately after periosteal membrane placement .
Despite difficulty in post - operative management of goats and resulting subchondral plate collapse in some animals in the 16 - week studies , results from all four studies suggested that chondrocytes may contribute to histological repair of focal cartilage lesions .
In the only bilateral joint study , serious subchondral collapse and uniformly poor repair resulted in inconclusive data .
No safety issues were identified in any of these studies .
Horse Study • The 8 - week study included two experimental arms in order to model repair of cartilage lesions with or without subchondral penetration .
Both models exhibited destruction / dislodgement of the periosteal flap ; however , results suggested that chondrocytes may contribute to histologic repair in cartilage defects with subchondral penetration .
While the defects in all animal models exhibited highly variable repair tissue quality ( resulting in only moderate histologic scores ) the best repairs with implanted chondrocytes produced hyaline - like cartilage characterized by matrix predominating in type II collagen and saffranin - O or toluidine blue staining proteoglycan .
Chondrocyte labeling in one of the rabbit studies8 and in an independent study in goats by Dell ' Accio et al10 demonstrated that the hyaline - like matrix in these defects was the product of the implanted autologous chondrocytes .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Pre - Approval Studies Clinical information regarding the use of autologous cultured chondrocytes was obtained from 2 open - label , observational studies consisting of a series of patients treated in Sweden and the Cartilage Repair Registry .
Patients in the Swedish series received an autologous cultured chondrocyte product similar to Carticel ® .
14 . 1 . 1 Swedish Series The series consists of 153 patients who received autologous chondrocyte implantation for various defects of the knee .
Patients presented with cartilage defects of the femoral condyle , patella , tibia , a combination of these , or osteochondritis dissecans , with or without comorbidity such as anterior cruciate ligament insufficiency requiring reconstruction .
Following autologous chondrocyte implantation , patients were followed for various durations .
Clinical follow - up ranged from 1 week to 94 months ; 86 patients had at least 18 months of follow - up .
Most patients had arthroscopic evaluation ; a subset had biopsy and histological evaluations .
All patients were retrospectively classified as having one of three clinical outcomes : resumed all activities , some improvement , or no improvement .
Clinical outcomes were also reported for patient subgroups including : 1 ) 40 patients with femoral condyle lesions , 2 ) 12 patients with osteochondritis dissecans lesions and 3 ) 22 patients who failed a prior debridement .
1 ) Clinical Outcome - Patients with Femoral Condyle Lesions A total of 78 of 153 patients had femoral condyle lesions with or without co - morbidity .
Patients had one or more defects ranging in size from < 1 - 20 cm2 .
Of the patients with femoral condyle lesions , 40 were evaluable after at least 18 months ( median = 25 ; range = 18 to 94 months ) .
Clinical outcomes for the 40 patients are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Patient Response to TreatmentDefect Resumed All Activities Some Improvement No Improvement Total Patients Femoral Condyle 7 ( 29 % ) 8 ( 33 % ) 9 ( 38 % ) 24 Femoral Condyle plus other Non - Cartilage Repair 4 ( 25 % ) 9 ( 56 % ) 3 ( 19 % ) 16 Total 11 ( 28 % ) 17 ( 42 % ) 12 ( 30 % ) 40 2 ) Clinical Outcome – Patients with Osteochondritis Dissecans Lesions Of the 12 patients who received autologous cultured chondrocytes for treatment of an osteochondritis lesion , 6 of the 12 had " resumed all activities " , 4 had " some improvement " and 2 had " no improvement " after the 18 - month ( median = 25 ; range = 18 - 94 months ) follow - up period .
3 ) Clinical Outcome – Failed Earlier Procedures Debridement of the cartilage defect is often performed along with administration of autologous cultured chondrocytes .
To help differentiate the effects of the autologous cultured chondrocyte implantation procedure from those of debridement alone , an analysis was performed on 22 patients who had failed prior debridement and had a follow - up period after autologous cultured chondrocyte implantation which was at least as long as the time period to failure of their initial debridement .
At the end of follow - up , 5 of the 22 patients had a functional outcome rating of " resumed all activities " , 8 of the 22 patients had a rating of " some improvement " and 9 of the 22 patients had a rating of " no improvement . "
Thus , 13 of the 22 patients ( 59 % ) who had failed an earlier debridement had outcomes that were more favorable and durable following autologous cultured chondrocyte implantation than their previous debridement without cells .
Histological Outcome Twenty - two ( 22 ) patients in the Swedish series had histological evaluation of biopsies from the implant site one or more years after their autologous chondrocyte implantation .
Fifteen ( 15 ) of those patients had defects of the femoral condyle and 7 had defects of the patella .
Six ( 6 ) of the 15 femoral condyle biopsies showed hyaline - like cartilage , 5 had a mixture of hyaline and fibrocartilage , and 4 had only fibrocartilage .
Of the 6 biopsies with hyaline - like cartilage , 2 had minimal to no surface irregularities and 4 had some surface irregularities ( e . g . , fissures , fibrillations , etc . ) .
Arthroscopic Outcome As an objective outcome evaluation , 86 of the 153 patients had a follow - up arthroscopy for investigational purposes at 18 months or more post - implantation .
In some cases , the quality of repair observed at arthroscopy was considered to be supportive of the clinical or functional outcomes .
A substantial number of patients were noted at arthroscopy to have tissue hypertrophy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
14 . 1 . 2 Cartilage Repair Registry The Cartilage Repair Registry ( CRR ) was established upon the introduction of Carticel ® into orthopedic practice in March of 1995 .
The CRR was designed to prospectively collect the clinical outcomes of Carticel and other cartilage repair treatments for chondral lesions in the knee .
Clinical data were collected at baseline arthroscopy , implantation , intervals of 6 and 12 months , and annually thereafter ; adverse reaction data were collected on an ongoing basis through CRR adverse reaction collection and spontaneous reporting .
Inclusion in the CRR was based on a qualifying event that was defined as a knee arthroscopy in which a chondral lesion was identified and a cartilage biopsy was harvested .
Participation in the CRR was voluntary , and not all patients biopsied or implanted were included .
As of November 21 , 1997 , 891 patients had been implanted worldwide , and 644 of these patients were included in the CRR .
Functional outcomes were based on responses to a modified version of the Cincinnati Knee Rating System .
Data from a subset of 191 US patients in the CRR as of December 31 , 1996 who had undergone repair of lesions on the femoral condyle ( medial , lateral or trochlea ) were assessed to support licensure .
Patients were between the ages of 15 - 57 , 66 % ( 126 / 191 ) were male , and 34 % ( 64 / 191 ) were female and one patient ' s gender was not reported .
Of these 191 patients , 38 had at least 12 months of follow - up .
At study baseline , these 38 patients ' mean rating of overall condition was 3 . 2 , which is defined as fair to poor : limitations that affect activities of daily living - no sports possible .
At 12 month follow - up , these patients reported an overall condition score of 6 . 4 defined as good : some limitation with sports but can participate if patient compensates .
Although these patients were rated according to outcome measurements different from those used in the Swedish series , the results were consistent with the Swedish experience .
14 . 2 Post - Approval Studies Two post - approval studies were conducted and completed as a condition of approval for Carticel ® : the Registry Based Study ( RBS ) and the Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) .
14 . 2 . 1 Registry - Based Study ( RBS ) The RBS was a retrospective analysis of data collected for a cohort of 97 US patients treated between March of 1995 and March of 1997 .
Of the 97 patients enrolled , 95 % completed 1 - year follow - up , 80 % completed 2 - year follow - up and 74 % completed 3 - year follow - up .
Of these 97 patients , 44 were part of the subset of 191 US patients in the CRR described above .
A limitation of this study is the lack of a control group .
Patients included in this study had a prior non - Carticel cartilage repair procedure ( e . g . , debridement or marrow stimulation procedure ) performed at the time of the index arthroscopy , subsequently failed this procedure and went on to receive Carticel .
In the 5 years prior to the index arthroscopy for the study , this patient population had received prior knee surgeries to include : 47 % ( 46 / 97 ) of patients had at least one debridement / lavage of a cartilage defect , 25 % ( 24 / 97 ) of patients had a bone marrow stimulation procedure , 31 % ( 30 / 97 ) had at least one diagnostic arthroscopy , 30 % ( 29 / 97 ) had at least one meniscus repair / meniscectomy and 10 % ( 10 / 97 ) of patients had a ligament repair / reconstruction performed on the treated knee .
Using a modified Cincinnati Knee Rating System at study baseline , this patient population had a mean overall condition score of 3 . 1 defined as fair to poor : limitations that affect activities of daily living - no sports possible .
Patients included were between the ages of 16 - 56 , 69 % ( 67 / 97 ) were male and 31 % ( 30 / 97 ) were female .
For the type of defect , 62 % ( 60 / 97 ) of the defects were acute while 37 % ( 36 / 97 ) were chronic .
Of the treated defects , 75 % ( 73 / 97 ) were treated on the medial femoral condyle ( MFC ) , 26 % ( 25 / 97 ) on the lateral femoral condyle ( LFC ) and 19 % ( 18 / 97 ) on the trochlea .
Adverse reactions collected during this study are provided in Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) .
14 . 2 . 2 Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair ( STAR ) The STAR study was an open - label within patient comparison of a prior non - Carticel ( index ) procedure to implantation of Carticel for articular cartilage defects of the distal femur .
All patients had experienced an inadequate response to a prior non - Carticel surgical treatment , defined as both : a ) patient and surgeon agreement that the patient ' s symptoms / function required surgical re - treatment of the defect and b ) the patient ' s rating of the overall condition of the knee was a score ≤ 5 using the Modified Cincinnati Knee Rating System .
In this patient population , the median time to meet the failure criteria was 3 . 4 months for the prior non - Carticel procedure and 90 % of patients failed within 10 . 3 months .
Patients who met these criteria were treated with Carticel and assessed every 6 months for up to 4 years .
Treatment failure for Carticel was defined as any of the following : a ) the patient underwent surgical retreatment that violated the subchondral bone or reimplantation with Carticel for the same index defect , b ) complete delamination or removal of the graft , or c ) the patient ' s rating of the overall condition of the knee using the Modified Cincinnati Knee Rating System failed to improve from the baseline knee score over 3 consecutive 6 - month intervals .
A total of 154 patients were treated with Carticel .
At the index surgery required for study entry , patients had one or more of the following interventions : 120 patients ( 78 % ) had debridement , 44 patients ( 29 % ) had microfracture , 18 ( 12 % ) had subchondral drilling , 10 ( 6 % ) had abrasion arthroplasty , and 7 ( 5 % ) had an osteochondral autograft .
The mean lesion size was 4 . 6 ( ± 3 . 2 , SD ) cm2 .
Fifty patients ( 32 % ) had multiple lesions in the reference knee and 29 patients had Carticel implanted in more than one lesion .
Lesions that were implanted were located on the medial femoral condyle in 109 patients , lateral femoral condyle in 32 patients and trochlea in 46 patients .
Forty patients ( 26 % ) had lesions which involved osteochondritis dissecans ( OCD ) .
Of the 154 patients treated with Carticel , 28 patients discontinued the study early .
The numbers of patients completing the 24 and 48 month follow - up visits are 136 and 115 , respectively .
The majority of Carticel patients ( N = 117 ) did not meet failure criteria during the study .
By the end of the study , a total of 37 patients met the treatment failure criteria .
Results for the 40 patients with OCD lesions were comparable to the total study population as 34 ( 85 % ) did not meet the failure criteria for the study and 6 ( 15 % ) failed treatment with Carticel .
Table 6 illustrates , during each year of follow - up , the number of patients who failed Carticel by the surgical criteria along with the number of patients who failed by the Overall Modified Cincinnati scale criteria .
Table 6 : Category and Timing of Treatment Failure for Patients who Met Treatment Failure Criteria ( N = 37 ) 1 Year 2 Years 3 Years 4 Years Total Patients who Failed During the Interval 14 11 11 1 37 Surgery criteria 0 5 5 1 11 Overall Modified Cincinnati Scale criteria 14 6 6 0 26 The Overall Modified Cincinnati mean baseline score for the patient population as a whole was 3 . 26 , poor : significant limitations that affect activities of daily living , to fair : moderate limitations that affect activities of daily living , no sports possible .
At 48 months , the mean score was 6 . 39 , good : some limitations with sports but can participate / compensate .
The improvement was statistically significant .
Table 7 shows the improvement in the Overall Modified Cincinnati score over time .
Table 7 : Mean Overall Modified Cincinnati Score at Baseline and Follow - up VisitsVisit Baseline N = 154 Month 12 N = 146 Month 24 N = 131 Month 36 N = 104 Month 48 N = 101 Overall Modified Cincinnati Score [ 1 ] Mean ( SD ) 3 . 26 ( 1 . 02 ) 5 . 58 ( 1 . 99 ) 5 . 92 ( 2 . 08 ) 5 . 87 ( 2 . 19 ) 6 . 39 ( 2 . 31 ) [ 1 ] Scores are for patients who returned for follow - up .
Patients who failed by score criteria are included and patients who failed by surgical criteria are excluded from the scores for timepoints after the failure criteria were met .
In addition to the change over time in activity level as measured with the Overall Modified Cincinnati Scale , there were similar and consistent changes in knee symptoms and function as measured with the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score ( KOOS ) , a measure of knee - specific symptoms and function consisting of the following five subscales : pain , symptoms , sports and recreation , knee - related quality of life , and activities of daily living .
At 12 months post - Carticel ® implant , the mean improvement from baseline for the patient population as a whole in each subscale was as follows : pain 19 ( N = 146 ) , symptoms 15 ( N = 147 ) , sports and recreation 17 ( N = 129 ) , knee - related quality of life 18 ( N = 147 ) , and activities of daily living 18 ( N = 145 ) .
At 48 months post - Carticel implant , the mean improvement from baseline was as follows : pain 24 ( N = 100 ) , symptoms 19 ( N = 101 ) , sports and recreation 31 ( N = 86 ) , knee - related quality of life 32 ( N = 101 ) , and activities of daily living 23 ( N = 99 ) .
Adverse reactions collected during this study are provided in Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) .
15 .
REFERENCES • Knutsen G , Engebretsen L , Ludvigsen T , et al .
Autologous chondrocyte implantation compared with microfracture in the knee .
J Bone Joint Surg , 2004 ; 86 A : 455 - 464 .
• Bentley G , Biant LC , Carrington RWJ , et al .
A prospective , randomized comparison of autologous chondrocyte implantation versus mosaicplasty for osteochondral defects in the knee .
J Bone Joint Surg Br .
2003 ; 85 - B : 223 - 230 .
• Brittberg M , Lindahl A , Nilsson A , et al .
Treatment of deep cartilage defects in the knee with autologous chondrocyte transplantation .
N Engl J Med .
1994 ; 331 : 889 - 895 .
• Peterson L , Minas T , Brittberg M , et al .
Two - to 9 - year outcome after autologous chondrocyte transplantation of the knee .
Clin Orthop .
2000 ; 1 ( 374 ) : 212 - 234 .
• Peterson L , Brittberg M , Kiviranta I , et al .
Autologous chondrocyte transplantation .
Biomechanics and long - term durability .
Am J Sports Med .
2002 ; 30 : 2 - 12 .
• Peterson L , Menche D , Grande D , et al .
Chondrocyte transplantation - an experimental model in the rabbit .
Transactions from the 30 th Annual Orthopedic Research Society , Atlanta , February 7 - 9 , 1984 .
Palatine , III . : Orthopedic Research Society , 1984 : 218 .
Abstract .
• Grande DA , Pitman MI , Peterson L , et al .
The repair of experimentally produced defects in rabbit articular cartilage by autologous chondrocyte transplantation .
J Orthop Res .
1989 ; 7 ( 2 ) : 208 - 18 .
• Brittberg M , Nilsson A , Lindahl A , et al .
Rabbit articular cartilage defects treated with autologous cultured chondrocytes .
Clin Orthop Relat Res .
1996 May ; ( 326 ) : 270 - 83 .
• Breinan H , Minas T , Barone L , et al .
Histological evaluation of the course of healing of canine articular cartilage defects treated with cultured autologous chondrocytes .
Tiss Engin 1998 ; 4 ( 1 ) : 101 - 14 .
• Dell ' Accio F , Vanlauwe J , Bellemans , et al .
Expanded phenotypically stable chondrocytes persist in the repair tissue and contribute to cartilage matrix formation and structural integration in a goat model of autologous chondrocyte implantation .
Journal of Orthopaedic Research 21 2003 ; 21 : 123 – 131 .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied The Carticel product , NDC 69866 - 1025 - 1 , consists of viable , autologous cells packaged and labeled for implantation within specified time limits .
Each vial contains approximately 12 million autologous cells for a single implantation procedure .
The shipping vials containing chondrocytes are accompanied by a technical data sheet with detailed specifications for the processed cells .
The vial ( s ) of cells is placed within secondary packaging capable of maintaining the appropriate storage temperature and cell viability for up to 72 hours .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling The Carticel ® transport box should be held at room temperature and remain closed until the time of implantation to ensure proper storage conditions for the cells .
Do Not Refrigerate , Freeze , or Incubate the Carticel Shipping Container or its Contents .
Do Not Sterilize .
If the Vial is Damaged or Sterility has been Compromised , Do Not Use .
17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients receiving autologous cultured chondrocytes for treatment of an articular cartilage defect should receive the following information and instructions .
• Physical activity should be resumed according to the rehabilitation plan recommended by the physician .
Generally , protected weight bearing is recommended for the first 6 to 8 weeks following implantation .
The patient should receive specific instructions on crutch use , ambulation and weight bearing advancement on the treated limb .
• If pain starts to develop as the next level of activity is increased , decrease activity to the former level until the pain resolves .
• If exercise causes pain and / or swelling , reduce the amount of physical activity .
• Swelling should be controlled using ice packs .
• Patient adherence to the prescribed rehabilitation program is important and activity at variance from the rehabilitation program may compromise clinical benefit from Carticel .
• At anytime during the rehabilitation process or after , if sharp pain with locking or swelling is experienced , contact the physician for medical advice .
Vericel Corporation 64 Sidney Street Cambridge , MA 02139 - 4136 USA Telephone : 800 - 453 - 6948 or 617 - 588 - 5566 Fax : 844 - 333 - 2847 Carticel ® is a Registered Trademark of Vericel Corporation .
65001 Revision M 11 / 2015 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 4 mL Vial Label Autologous Cultured Chondrocytes Lot # : { LOT # - Ext } Patient ID # : { PtID } Expiry : { HH : MM } { Zn } { DD MMM YY } Vericel Corporation Cambridge , MA 02139 Lic : 2010 Rx only Label # : 63014 .
K 11 / 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 4 mL Vial Shipping Label Autologous Cultured Chondrocytes Carticel ® FOR AUTOLOGOUS USE ONLY NOT EVALUATED FOR INFECTIOUS SUBSTANCES Vericel Corporation Patient ID # : { Patient ID } { Patient Initials } { Hospital Name } Lot # : { LOT # - Ext } Expiry : { HH : MM } { Zn } { DD MMM YY } Store at room temperature .
DO NOT FREEZE ( { # } ) vial ( s ) approximately 12 million cells per vial in 0 . 4 mL DMEM for implantation .
No US Standard of Potency .
NO PRESERVATIVES Cells Expanded in Medium Containing 44 mcg / mL Gentamicin See Insert for Complete Instructions and Dosing Rx Only Vericel Corporation Cambridge , MA 02139 USA Carticel ® is a registered trademark of Vericel Corporation Label # : 64014 .
J - 11 / 2015 License # : 2010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 0 . 4 mL Vial Carton Label Autologous Cultured Chondrocytes Carticel ® FOR AUTOLOGOUS USE ONLY NOT EVALUATED FOR INFECTIOUS SUBSTANCES Vericel Corporation Patient ID # : { Patient ID } { First Mid Last } { Hospital Name } Lot # : { LOT # } - { Ext } Expiry : { HH : MM } { Zn } { DDMMMYY } Store at room temperature .
DO NOT FREEZE STORE CONTAINER IN SHIPPING BOX AS RECEIVED .
{ # } vial ( s ) approximately 12 million cells per vial in 0 . 4 mL DMEM for implantation .
No US Standard of Potency .
NO PRESERVATIVES Cells Expanded in Medium Containing 44 mcg / mL Gentamicin See Insert for Complete Instructions and Dosing Rx Only Vericel Corporation Cambridge , MA 02139 USA Carticel ® is a registered trademark of Vericel Corporation Label # : 64090 .
D 11 / 2015 License # : 2010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
