1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VOXZOGO is indicated to increase linear growth in pediatric patients with achondroplasia who are 5 years of age and older with open epiphyses .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on an improvement in annualized growth velocity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial ( s ) .
VOXZOGO is a C type natriuretic peptide ( CNP ) analog indicated to increase linear growth in pediatric patients with achondroplasia who are 5 years of age and older with open epiphyses .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on an improvement in annualized growth velocity .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ensure adequate food and fluid intake prior to administration .
( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dosage is based on patient ' s weight .
Administer subcutaneously once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • Reconstitute prior to use .
The injection volume is based on both patient ' s weight and concentration of reconstituted VOXZOGO .
( 2 . 2 ) • Monitor growth and adjust dosage according to body weight .
Permanently discontinue upon closure of epiphyses .
( 2 . 3 ) • See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Instructions Prior to Administration of VOXZOGO To reduce the risk of low blood pressure and its associated signs and symptoms , instruct the caregiver and patient that the patient should [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] : • Have adequate food intake prior to VOXZOGO administration .
• Drink approximately 240 - 300 mL of fluid in the hour prior to VOXZOGO administration .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage of VOXZOGO is based on the patient ' s actual body weight ( see Table 1 ) .
VOXZOGO is administered by subcutaneous injection once daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Inject VOXZOGO at approximately the same time each day , if possible .
The volume of VOXZOGO to be administered ( injection volume ) is based on the patient ' s actual body weight and the concentration of reconstituted VOXZOGO ( 0 . 8 mg / mL or 2 mg / mL ) ( Table 1 ) .
VOXZOGO must be reconstituted prior to use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Table 1 : Recommended VOXZOGO Daily Dosage and Injection VolumeActual Body Weight Vial Strength for Reconstitution [ 1 ] Dose Injection Volume 10 - 11 kg 0 . 4 mg 0 . 24 mg 0 . 3 mL 12 - 16 kg 0 . 56 mg 0 . 28 mg 0 . 35 mL 17 - 21 kg 0 . 56 mg 0 . 32 mg 0 . 4 mL 22 - 32 kg 0 . 56 mg 0 . 4 mg 0 . 5 mL 33 - 43 kg 1 . 2 mg 0 . 5 mg 0 . 25 mL 44 - 59 kg 1 . 2 mg 0 . 6 mg 0 . 3 mL 60 - 89 kg 1 . 2 mg 0 . 7 mg 0 . 35 mL ≥ 90 kg 1 . 2 mg 0 . 8 mg 0 . 4 mL [ 1 ] The concentration of vosoritide in reconstituted 0 . 4 mg vial and 0 . 56 mg vial is 0 . 8 mg / mL .
The concentration of vosoritide in reconstituted 1 . 2 mg vial is 2 mg / mL .
Missed dose If a dose of VOXZOGO is missed , it can be administered within 12 hours of the scheduled time of administration .
Beyond 12 hours , skip the missed dose and administer the next daily dose according to the usual dosing schedule .
2 . 3 Growth Monitoring Monitor and assess patient body weight , growth , and physical development regularly every 3 - 6 months .
Adjust the dosage according to the patient ' s actual body weight [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue VOXZOGO upon confirmation of no further growth potential , indicated by closure of epiphyses .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Reconstitute VOXZOGO before administration using the provided diluent syringe containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( see Reconstitution Instructions below ) .
Caregivers may inject VOXZOGO subcutaneously after proper training by a healthcare professional on the preparation and administration of VOXZOGO [ see Instructions for Use ] .
Reconstitution Instructions • Select the correct VOXZOGO strength and prefilled diluent syringe co - pack based on the patient ' s actual body weight [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Remove VOXZOGO vial and prefilled diluent syringe ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) from the refrigerator and allow the vial and prefilled diluent syringe to reach room temperature before reconstituting VOXZOGO .
• Attach the diluent needle provided with ancillary supplies to the diluent prefilled syringe .
• Inject the entire diluent prefilled syringe volume into the vial .
• Gently swirl the diluent in the vial until the white powder is completely dissolved .
Do not shake .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Once reconstituted VOXZOGO is a clear , colorless to yellow liquid .
The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy , or if particles are present .
The concentration of reconstituted solution is 0 . 8 mg / mL or 2 . 0 mg / mL .
• After reconstitution , VOXZOGO can be held in the vial at a room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for a maximum of 3 hours .
• For administration , extract the required dose volume from the vial using the supplied administration syringe [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Discard any unused portion .
Do not pool unused portions from the vials .
Do not administer more than 1 dose from a vial .
Do not mix with other medications .
Instructions for Subcutaneous Administration See the Instructions for Use document for detailed , illustrated instructions .
• Ensure patients have had adequate food and fluid intake prior to VOXZOGO administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Slowly withdraw the dosing volume of the reconstituted VOXZOGO solution from the single - dose vial into a syringe .
• Rotate sites for subcutaneous injections .
• The recommended injection sites for VOXZOGO are : the front middle of the thighs , the lower part of the abdomen at least 2 inches ( 5 centimeters ) away from the navel , top of the buttocks or the back of the upper arms .
The same injection area should not be used on two consecutive days .
Do not inject VOXZOGO into sites that are red , swollen , or tender .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Injection : 0 . 4 mg , 0 . 56 mg , or 1 . 2 mg as a white to yellow lyophilized powder for reconstitution in a single - dose vial .
For injection : 0 . 4 mg , 0 . 56 mg , or 1 . 2 mg lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of Low Blood Pressure : Transient decreases in blood pressure have been reported .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Low Blood Pressure Transient decreases in blood pressure were observed in clinical studies of VOXZOGO .
Subjects with significant cardiac or vascular disease and patients on anti - hypertensive medicinal products were excluded from participation in VOXZOGO clinical trials .
To reduce the risk of a decrease in blood pressure and associated symptoms ( dizziness , fatigue and / or nausea ) , instruct patients to be well hydrated and have adequate food intake prior to administration of VOXZOGO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Risk of Low Blood Pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) are injection site erythema , injection site swelling , vomiting , injection site urticaria , arthralgia , decreased blood pressure , and gastroenteritis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc . at 1 - 866 - 906 - 6100 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
VOXZOGO was studied in a 52 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in 121 subjects with achondroplasia ( Study 1 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The subjects ' ages ranged from 5 . 1 to 14 . 9 years with a mean of 8 . 7 years .
Sixty four ( 53 % ) subjects were male and 57 ( 47 % ) were female .
Overall , 86 ( 71 % ) subjects were White , 23 ( 19 % ) were Asian , 5 ( 4 % ) were Black or African American , and 7 ( 6 % ) were classified as " multiple " race .
The demographic and baseline characteristics were balanced between treatment groups .
The subjects received either VOXZOGO 15 mcg / kg , or placebo administered subcutaneously once daily .
Table 2 shows adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with VOXZOGO and at a percentage greater than placebo .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions that Occurred in ≥ 5 % of Patients Treated with VOXZOGO and at a Percentage Greater than Placebo in Study 1 [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 61 ) n ( % ) VOXZOGO ( N = 60 ) n ( % ) Abreviations : N , total number of subjects in the treatment arm ; n , number of subjects with the adverse reaction ; % , percent of subjects with the adverse reaction .
Injection site erythema 42 ( 69 % ) 45 ( 75 % ) Injection site swelling 22 ( 36 % ) 37 ( 62 % ) Vomiting 12 ( 20 % ) 16 ( 27 % ) Injection site urticaria 6 ( 10 % ) 15 ( 25 % ) Arthralgia 4 ( 7 % ) 9 ( 15 % ) Decreased blood pressure 3 ( 5 % ) 8 ( 13 % ) Gastroenteritis [ 2 ] 5 ( 8 % ) 8 ( 13 % ) Diarrhea 2 ( 3 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) Dizziness [ 3 ] 2 ( 3 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) Ear pain 3 ( 5 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) Influenza 3 ( 5 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) Fatigue [ 4 ] 2 ( 3 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) Seasonal allergy 1 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 7 % ) Dry skin 0 3 ( 5 % ) [ 1 ] Includes adverse reactions occurring more frequently in the vosoritide arm and with a risk difference of ≥ 5 % ( i . e . , difference of > 2 subjects ) between treatment arms [ 2 ] Includes the preferred terms : gastroenteritis and gastroenteritis , viral [ 3 ] Includes the preferred terms : dizziness , presyncope , procedural dizziness , vertigo [ 4 ] Includes the preferred terms : fatigue , lethargy , malaise Discussion of Selected Adverse Reactions Decreased blood pressure Eight ( 13 % ) of 60 subjects treated with VOXZOGO had a total of 11 events of transient decrease in blood pressure compared to 3 ( 5 % ) of 61 subjects on placebo , identified predominantly during periods of frequent monitoring at clinical visits after dosing over a 52 - week treatment period .
The median time to onset from injection was 31 ( 18 to 120 ) minutes with resolution within 31 ( 5 to 90 ) minutes in VOXZOGO - treated subjects .
Two out of 60 ( 3 % ) VOXZOGO - treated subjects each had one symptomatic episode of decreased blood pressure with vomiting and / or dizziness compared to 0 of 61 ( 0 % ) subjects on placebo .
Injection site reactions Injection site reactions occurred in 51 ( 85 % ) subjects receiving VOXZOGO and 50 ( 82 % ) subjects receiving placebo over a 52 week period of treatment .
Injection site reactions included the preferred terms injection site erythema , injection site reaction , injection site swelling , injection site urticaria , injection site pain , injection site bruising , injection site pruritus , injection site hemorrhage , injection site discoloration , and injection site induration .
Over a 52 week period , 51 ( 85 % ) of 60 subjects receiving VOXZOGO experienced a total of 6983 events of injection site reactions , while 50 ( 82 % ) of 61 subjects receiving placebo experienced a total of 1776 events of injections site reactions , representing 120 . 4 events per person / year exposure and 29 . 2 per person / year exposure , respectively .
One injection site reaction event could have been associated with one or more injection site reaction symptoms ( e . g . , injection site swelling , injection site erythema , injection site urticaria , etc . ) .
Two subjects in the VOXZOGO arm discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions of pain and anxiety with injections .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all peptides , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
Of 131 subjects who were treated with VOXZOGO 15 mcg / kg / day and evaluable for the presence of anti - drug antibodies ( ADA ) for up to 240 weeks , ADA were detected in 35 % ( 46 / 131 ) .
The earliest time to ADA development was day 85 .
All ADA - positive subjects tested negative for anti - vosoritide neutralizing antibodies .
There was no correlation between the number , duration , or severity of hypersensitivity adverse reactions or injection site reactions and ADA positivity or mean ADA titer .
There was no association between ADA positivity or mean ADA titer and change from baseline in annual growth velocity ( AGV ) or height Z - score at month 12 .
There was no impact of serum ADA detected on the plasma PK measurements of vosoritide .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Renal Impairment : Not recommended in patients with eGFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on vosoritide use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of embryo - fetal toxicity or congenital malformations when pregnant rats and rabbits were administered vosoritide subcutaneously at doses equivalent to 14 - times and 200 - times , respectively , the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects for the indicated population is higher than the general population .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal developmental toxicity study in rats , vosoritide was administered at 90 , 270 , 540 mcg / kg once daily by subcutaneous injection during the period of major organogenesis from gestation day ( GD ) 6 – 17 .
There were no effects on maternal animals or on embryofetal development at the highest dose administered ( 14 - times the exposure at the MRHD ) .
In an embryofetal developmental toxicity study in rabbits , vosoritide was administered at 45 , 135 , 240 mcg / kg once daily by subcutaneous injection during the period of major organogenesis ( GD 7 – 19 ) .
No effects were observed in maternal animals or on embryofetal development at the highest dose administered ( 200 - times the exposure at the MRHD ) .
In a pre - and postnatal toxicity study in rats , vosoritide was administered at 90 , 270 , and 540 mcg / kg once daily by subcutaneous injection during the period of major organogenesis and continuing to weaning ( GD 6 through postpartum day 20 ) .
There were no effects on maternal animals , including maintenance of pregnancy , parturition , or care of offspring , and no effects were noted on offspring growth and development or ability to reproduce at the highest dose ( 14 - times the exposure at the MRHD ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of vosoritide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Vosoritide is present in rat milk .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for VOXZOGO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from VOXZOGO or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VOXZOGO have been established in pediatric patients aged 5 years and older for the improvement in linear growth in patients with achondroplasia .
Use of VOXZOGO for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies in pediatric patients aged 5 years and older [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of VOXZOGO in pediatric patients with achondroplasia below the age of 5 years have not been established .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The influence of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of VOXZOGO has not been evaluated .
No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with eGFR ≥ 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
VOXZOGO is not recommended for patients with eGFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
11 DESCRIPTION VOXZOGO contains vosoritide , a human C type natriuretic peptide ( CNP ) analog .
Vosoritide is a 39 amino acid peptide .
Its amino acid sequence includes the 37 C terminal amino acids of the human CNP53 sequence plus Pro Gly on the N terminus to convey resistance to neutral endopeptidase ( NEP ) degradation .
Vosoritide is manufactured from Escherichia coli using recombinant DNA technology .
Vosoritide has a chemical formula of C176H290N56O51S3 with a molecular weight of 4 . 1 kDa .
Vosoritide has the structural formula shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] VOXZOGO ( vosoritide ) for injection , is a sterile , preservative - free white - to - yellow lyophilized powder , for subcutaneous administration after reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
VOXZOGO is provided as a single - dose vial containing 0 . 4 mg , 0 . 56 mg , or 1 . 2 mg of vosoritide per vial .
A pre - filled syringe containing Sterile Water for Injection , USP for use as a diluent is also provided .
The contents of each single dose vial are summarized by strength in Table 3 .
The product contains no preservative .
Table 3 : Contents of VOXZOGOStrength Inactive Ingredients per Vial Trehalose dihydrate and D - Mannitol are used as isotonic agent .
Citric acid monohydrate and sodium citrate dihydrate are used as buffering agent .
VOXZOGO 0 . 4 mg Trehalose dihydrate ( 29 . 01 mg ) , mannitol ( 7 . 5 mg ) , sodium citrate dihydrate ( 0 . 54 mg ) , methionine ( 0 . 36 mg ) , citric acid monohydrate ( 0 . 14 mg ) , and polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 025 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 0 . 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP , the resulting concentration is 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 5 mL of vosoritide and the nominal deliverable volume is 0 . 4 mL .
VOXZOGO 0 . 56 mg Trehalose dihydrate ( 40 . 61 mg ) , mannitol ( 10 . 50 mg ) , sodium citrate dihydrate ( 0 . 76 mg ) , methionine ( 0 . 51 mg ) , citric acid monohydrate ( 0 . 20 mg ) , and polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 035 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 0 . 7 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP , the resulting concentration is 0 . 56 mg / 0 . 7 mL of vosoritide and the nominal deliverable volume is 0 . 6 mL .
VOXZOGO 1 . 2 mg Trehalose dihydrate ( 34 . 81 mg ) , mannitol ( 9 mg ) , sodium citrate dihydrate ( 0 . 65 mg ) , methionine ( 0 . 44 mg ) , citric acid monohydrate ( 0 . 17 mg ) , and polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 030 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 0 . 6 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP , the resulting concentration is 1 . 2 mg / 0 . 6 mL of vosoritide and the nominal deliverable volume is 0 . 5 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In patients with achondroplasia , endochondral bone growth is negatively regulated due to a gain of function mutation in fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 ( FGFR3 ) .
Binding of vosoritide to natriuretic peptide receptor - B ( NPR - B ) antagonizes FGFR3 downstream signaling by inhibiting the extracellular signal - regulated kinases 1 and 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) in the mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway at the level of rapidly accelerating fibrosarcoma serine / threonine protein kinase ( RAF - 1 ) .
As a result , vosoritide , like CNP , acts as a positive regulator of endochondral bone growth as it promotes chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation .
In animal models with open growth plates , vosoritide administration resulted in the promotion of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation that led to a widening of the growth plate and subsequent increase in skeletal growth .
In the mouse models of FGFR3 - related chondrodysplasia , a partial or complete normalization of the dwarfism phenotype was observed .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics NPR - B Binding Activity Biomarker and Bone Metabolism Biomarker An increase in urinary cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) concentrations from pre - dose baseline were observed within the first four hours post - dose , with a maximum level at 2 hours post - dose , after VOXZOGO administration to pediatric patients with achondroplasia .
Daily administration of VOXZOGO also led to the increase from baseline in serum collagen type X marker ( CXM ) , an endochondral ossification biomarker and remains elevated beyond 24 months .
In subjects aged 5 - 14 years old at screening , exposure - response analyses showed that vosoritide activity measured by urinary cGMP was near saturation at the dose of 15 mcg / kg once daily , while maximal increase in growth plate activity indicated by CXM was achieved at this dose .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the maximum approved recommended dose , Voxzogo does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) and peak concentration ( Cmax ) of vosoritide increased greater than proportionally following subcutaneous administration to pediatric subjects with achondroplasia in the dose range of 7 . 5 to 30 . 0 mcg / kg .
The pharmacokinetics of vosoritide were evaluated in 58 subjects aged 5 to 13 years with achondroplasia who received subcutaneous injections of vosoritide 15 mcg / kg once daily for 52 weeks .
The mean ( ± SD ) Cmax and area under the concentration - time curve from time zero to the last measurable concentration ( AUC0 - t ) observed across 52 weeks of treatment ranged from 4 . 71 ( ± 2 . 32 ) to 7 . 18 ( ± 9 . 65 ) ng / mL , and 161 ( ± 98 . 1 ) to 290 ( ± 235 ) ng - min / mL , respectively .
No drug accumulation was observed following 15 mcg / kg once daily dosing .
The exposure of vosoritide increased with the duration of treatment .
The mean AUC0 - t at week 52 increased approximately 20 % compared to that at day 1 .
Absorption Absolute bioavailability for vosoritide following subcutaneous injection was not determined .
Vosoritide was absorbed with a median Tmax of 15 minutes after dosing .
Distribution The mean ( ± SD ) apparent volume of distribution of vosoritide across 52 weeks of subcutaneous administration of VOXZOGO 15 mcg / kg once daily ranged from 2880 ( ± 2450 ) to 3020 ( ± 1980 ) mL / kg .
Elimination The mean ( ± SD ) apparent clearance of vosoritide across 52 weeks of subcutaneous administration of VOXZOGO 15 mcg / kg once daily ranged from 79 . 4 ( ± 53 . 0 ) to 104 ( ± 98 . 8 ) mL / min / kg .
The mean ( ± SD ) half - life ranged from 21 . 0 ( ± 4 . 7 ) to 27 . 9 ( ± 9 . 9 ) minutes .
Metabolism The metabolism of vosoritide is expected to occur via catabolic pathways with degradation into small peptide fragments and amino acids .
Special Populations No clinically significant differences in the vosoritide pharmacokinetics were observed based on age ( 0 . 9 to 16 years ) , sex or race .
The effect of hepatic or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of vosoritide is unknown .
Body weight Population pharmacokinetic analyses indicated that body weight is a significant covariate for vosoritide clearance and volume of distribution .
The apparent clearance and volume of distribution of vosoritide increased with increasing body weight in patients with achondroplasia ( 9 to 74 . 5 kg ) .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro assessment of drug - drug interactions In vitro studies showed that vosoritide , at therapeutic concentrations , does not inhibit or induce Cytochrome P450 enzymes .
In vivo assessment of drug - drug interactions No clinical studies evaluating the drug - drug interaction potential of vosoritide have been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term carcinogenicity studies and genotoxicity studies with vosoritide have not been performed .
In a fertility and reproductive study in male and female rats at doses up to 540 mcg / kg / day ( 15 - times the exposure at the MRHD ) , vosoritide had no effect on mating performance , fertility , or litter characteristics .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and effectiveness of VOXZOGO in patients with achondroplasia were assessed in one 52 - week , multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , phase 3 study - Study 1 ( NCT03197766 ) .
Study 1 was conducted in 121 subjects with genetically - confirmed achondroplasia , who were randomized to either VOXZOGO ( N = 60 ) or placebo ( N = 61 ) .
The dosage of VOXZOGO was 15 mcg / kg administered subcutaneously once daily .
Baseline standing height , weight Z - score , body mass index ( BMI ) Z - score , and upper to lower body ratio were collected for at least 6 months prior to randomization .
Subjects with limb - lengthening surgery in the prior 18 months or who planned to have limb - lengthening surgery during the study period were excluded .
The study included a 52 - week placebo - controlled treatment phase followed by an open - label treatment extension study period in which all subjects received VOXZOGO .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in annualized growth velocity ( AGV ) at Week 52 compared with placebo .
The subjects ' ages ranged from 5 . 1 to 14 . 9 years with a mean of 8 . 7 years .
Sixty four ( 53 % ) subjects were male and 57 ( 47 % ) were female .
Overall , 86 ( 71 % ) subjects were White , 23 ( 19 % ) were Asian , 5 ( 4 % ) were Black or African American , and 7 ( 6 % ) were classified as " multiple " race .
The subjects had a mean baseline height standard deviation score ( SDS ) of - 5 . 13 .
Treatment with VOXZOGO for 52 weeks resulted in a treatment difference in the change from baseline in AGV of 1 . 57 cm / year after 52 weeks of treatment ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Annualized Growth Velocity ( cm / year ) at Week 52 in Subjects 5 Years of Age and Older with Achondroplasia - Study 1 Placebo ( N = 61 [ 1 ] ) VOXZOGO 15 mcg / kg Daily ( N = 60 null ) Abbreviations : AGV , annualized growth velocity ; 95 % CI , 95 % confidence interval ; LS , least - square ; SD , standard deviation Baseline mean ( SD ) [ 2 ] 4 . 06 ( 1 . 20 ) 4 . 26 ( 1 . 53 ) Change from baseline [ 3 ] - 0 . 17 1 . 40 Difference in change of VOXZOGO – Placebo null ( 95 % CI ) 1 . 57 ( 1 . 22 , 1 . 93 ) [ 4 ] [ 1 ] All randomized subjects .
Two patients in the VOXZOGO group discontinued from the study before Week 52 .
The values for these 2 patients were imputed assuming baseline growth rate for the period with missing data .
[ 2 ] Baseline AGV was based on standing height at least 6 months prior to enrollment into the study .
[ 3 ] LS means were estimated from the ANCOVA ( analysis of covariance ) model , which included treatment , stratum defined by sex and Tanner stage , baseline age , baseline AGV and baseline height Z - score .
[ 4 ] 2 - sided p - value < 0 . 0001 for superiority .
The improvement in AGV in favor of VOXZOGO was consistent across all predefined subgroups analyzed including sex , age group , Tanner stage , baseline height Z - score , and baseline AGV .
Height Standard Deviation Score ( SDS ) The LS mean change from baseline to Week 52 in height SDS was - 0 . 02 in the placebo group and 0 . 26 in the VOXZOGO group .
The difference in LS mean change from baseline was 0 . 28 ( 95 % CI 0 . 17 , 0 . 39 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) in favor of VOXZOGO .
The LS mean change from baseline to Week 52 in upper to lower body segment ratio was - 0 . 02 in the placebo group and - 0 . 03 in the VOXZOGO group .
The difference in LS mean change from baseline was - 0 . 01 ( 95 % CI - 0 . 05 , 0 . 02 ; p = 0 . 5 ) .
Open - label extension After the 52 week double blind , placebo - controlled , phase 3 study , Study 1 , 58 subjects initially randomized to VOXZOGO enrolled into an open - label extension .
Among the subjects who had 2 years of follow - up since randomization , the improvement in AGV was maintained .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied VOXZOGO for injection is a white to yellow lyophilized powder for reconstitution and is provided as a co - pack which includes ten : • Sterile , single - dose 2 mL glass vials containing VOXZOGO • Diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) in a single - dose prefilled syringe • Diluent transfer needles ( 23 gauge ) • Single - dose administration syringes ( 30 gauge ) both with needle retraction safety devices Strength ( mg ) Diluent ( mL ) Co - pack NDC Number Flip Cap Color 0 . 4 0 . 5 NDC 68135 - 082 - 36 White 0 . 56 0 . 7 NDC 68135 - 119 - 66 Magenta 1 . 2 0 . 6 NDC 68135 - 181 - 93 Grey The following items to be obtained separately ; alcohol aseptic wipes , gauze , bandages and sharps container .
Storage Refrigerate VOXZOGO vials and prefilled diluent syringes at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
VOXZOGO can be stored at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) for 90 days .
Do not return VOXZOGO to the refrigerator once stored at room temperature .
After reconstitution , VOXZOGO can be held in the vial at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) for a maximum of 3 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Record the starting date of room - temperature storage clearly on the unopened product carton .
Do not use beyond expiration date on the label .
Store in the original package to protect from light .
Handling Reconstituted VOXZOGO must be administered within 3 hours of reconstitution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Preparation and Administration Instruct caregivers on proper preparation and administration of VOXZOGO .
Ensure caregivers have demonstrated the ability to perform a subcutaneous injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Instruct caregivers in the technique of proper syringe and needle disposal , and advise them not to reuse these items .
Instruct caregivers to dispose needles and syringes in a puncture - resistant container .
Risk of Low Blood Pressure Inform caregivers and patients that VOXZOGO may lower blood pressure after administration .
Instruct caregivers and patients that prior to VOXZOGO administration , the patient should have adequate food intake and within the hour prior to administration , the patient should drink approximately 8 - 10 ounces ( 240 - 300 mL ) of fluid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc . 105 Digital Drive , Novato , CA 94949 PATIENT INFORMATION VOXZOGO ( vox zoeʹ goe ) ( vosoritide ) for injection , for subcutaneous use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 11 / 2021 What is VOXZOGO ?
VOXZOGO is a prescription medicine used to increase linear growth in children with achondroplasia who are 5 years of age and older with open bone growth plates ( epiphyses ) .
It is not known if VOXZOGO is safe and effective in children with achondroplasia under 5 years of age .
Before you give your child VOXZOGO , tell your child ' s healthcare provider about all your child ' s medical conditions , including if they : • have kidney problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VOXZOGO will harm your child ' s unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VOXZOGO passes into your child ' s breast milk .
Talk to your child ' s healthcare provider about the best way to feed your child ' s baby if your child takes VOXZOGO .
Tell your child ' s healthcare provider about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines your child takes .
Keep a list of them to show your child ' s healthcare provider and pharmacist when your child gets a new medicine .
How should I give VOXZOGO ?
• See the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with this Patient Information leaflet for instructions about the right way to store , prepare , and give VOXZOGO injections at home .
• VOXZOGO is given as an injection under the skin ( subcutaneous or SC ) .
Inject VOXZOGO 1 time every day , at about the same time each day .
• If your child ' s healthcare provider decides a caregiver can give the injections of VOXZOGO at home , your child ' s caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject VOXZOGO .
Do not try to inject VOXZOGO until you have been shown the right way by your child ' s healthcare provider or nurse .
• Your child ' s healthcare provider will tell you how often you should give VOXZOGO .
If your child misses a dose of VOXZOGO , it can be given within 12 hours of the scheduled time of injection .
If more than 12 hours have passed , do not give the missed dose .
Give the next daily dose according to your child ' s usual schedule .
• Your child should eat a meal and drink about 8 to 10 ounces of fluid within 1 hour before injection .
• In case you are not sure when to inject VOXZOGO , call your child ' s healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Do not give VOXZOGO more often than as directed by your child ' s healthcare provider .
• Your child ' s dose of VOXZOGO depends on his or her body weight .
Your child ' s healthcare provider will tell you which strength of VOXZOGO to use and how much to give your child .
• Your child ' s healthcare provider will monitor your child ' s growth and instruct you on when your child should stop VOXZOGO if they determine that your child is no longer able to grow .
Stop giving VOXZOGO to your child if instructed by your child ' s healthcare provider .
What are the possible side effects of VOXZOGO ?
VOXZOGO may cause serious side effects , including : • risk of low blood pressure .
VOXZOGO may temporarily lower blood pressure in some people .
To help reduce the risk of low blood pressure and its symptoms ( dizziness , feeling tired , or nausea ) , your child should eat a meal and drink about 8 to 10 ounces of fluid within 1 hour before receiving VOXZOGO .
The most common side effects of VOXZOGO include : • injection site reactions ( redness , itching , swelling , bruising , rash , hives , pain ) • vomiting • joint pain • decreased blood pressure • stomach ache These are not all the possible side effects of VOXZOGO .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VOXZOGO ?
• Store the VOXZOGO vial and prefilled diluent syringe in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store VOXZOGO ( before mixing ) at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) for 90 days .
• Record the date you started storing VOXZOGO at room temperature on the carton to keep track of the 90 days .
• Do not return VOXZOGO to the refrigerator after it has been stored at room temperature .
Throw VOXZOGO away if unused within 90 days of storing at room temperature .
• Do not use VOXZOGO past the expiration date .
• Do not freeze VOXZOGO .
• Store VOXZOGO out of direct sunlight .
Keep VOXZOGO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VOXZOGO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VOXZOGO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VOXZOGO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about VOXZOGO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in VOXZOGO ?
Active ingredient : vosoritide Inactive ingredients : trehalose dihydrate , mannitol , sodium citrate dihydrate , methionine , citric acid monohydrate , and polysorbate 80 BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
Novato , CA 94949 © BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
All rights reserved .
VOXZOGO is a registered trademark of BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc .
For more information , go to www . VOXZOGO . com or call 1 - 877 - 695 - 8826 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE VOXZOGO ™ [ Vox zoeʹ goe ] ( vosoritide ) for injection , for subcutaneous use Single - Use This Instructions for Use contains information for caregivers on how to inject VOXZOGO .
Read this Instructions for Use before you start using VOXZOGO and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your child ' s healthcare provider about your child ' s medical condition and their treatment .
Before you use VOXZOGO for the first time , make sure your child ' s healthcare provider shows you the right way to use it .
Contact your child ' s healthcare provider if you or your child have any questions .
Important Information You Need to Know Before Injecting VOXZOGO • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Do not drop VOXZOGO or put opened items down on surfaces that are not clean .
• VOXZOGO is available in more than 1 strength .
Make sure the strength matches your prescription strength .
Do not open packaging until ready to use .
• Take the VOXZOGO vial and prefilled diluent syringe out of the refrigerator and allow them to reach room temperature before mixing .
• Inspect the vial and supplies for any signs of damage or contamination .
Do not use if damaged or contaminated .
• Check the expiration date .
The expiration date can be found on the carton , vial and prefilled diluent syringe .
Do not use if expired .
• Your child should eat a meal and drink a glass ( about 8 to 10 ounces ) of fluid ( such as water , milk , or juice ) within 1 hour before injection .
• VOXZOGO should be given at about the same time every day .
• Do not mix VOXZOGO with other medicines .
• After mixing the VOXZOGO , use it right away .
Do not use the mixed VOXZOGO if it has been sitting at room temperature for more than 3 hours .
Throw it away ( dispose of ) in a sharps container .
See step 18 and " How to Throw Away ( Dispose of ) VOXZOGO " for more information .
• Do not reuse any of the supplies .
After the injection , throw away ( dispose of ) the used vial even if there is VOXZOGO remaining .
See step 18 and " How to Throw Away ( Dispose of ) VOXZOGO " for more information .
How to Store VOXZOGO • Store the VOXZOGO vial and prefilled diluent syringe in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• You may store VOXZOGO ( before mixing ) at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) for 90 days .
Record the date you started storing VOXZOGO at room temperature on the carton to keep track of the 90 days .
Do not return VOXZOGO to the refrigerator after it has been stored at room temperature .
Throw VOXZOGO away if unused within 90 days of storing at room temperature .
• Do not freeze VOXZOGO .
• Store VOXZOGO out of direct sunlight .
Keep VOXZOGO and all other medicines out of the reach of children .
Supplies Needed to Inject VOXZOGO Gather all of these supplies on a clean , flat surface before injecting .
Items supplied Items not supplied If you do not have these items , ask your pharmacist .
VOXZOGO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing VOXZOGO for Injection ▶ Step 1 On a clean flat surface , flip off the vial cap and wipe the top with an alcohol pad .
▶ Step 2 Gently bend to snap off the cap from the prefilled diluent syringe .
▶ Step 3 Twist the diluent needle onto the prefilled diluent syringe until you can no longer twist it .
Do not use the prefilled diluent syringe to give the injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ▶ Step 4 Pull off the needle cap and insert the needle through the middle of the vial stopper .
Slowly push the plunger rod down to inject all of the liquid .
▶ Step 5 Remove the needle from the vial , then press the blue tab for the needle to pull back ( retract ) .
Throw away the needle and syringe in a sharps container .
See step 18 and " How to Throw Away ( Dispose of ) VOXZOGO . "
Do not use the prefilled diluent syringe to give the injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ▶ Step 6 Gently swirl the vial until the powder has completely dissolved and the solution is clear .
Do not shake .
▶ Step 7 Take the injection syringe out of the carton .
Pull off the needle cap from the injection syringe and insert the needle straight through the middle of the vial stopper .
Be careful not to bend the needle .
▶ Step 8 Carefully hold the vial and syringe and turn the vial upside down with the needle still inserted .
The vial should be on top .
Be careful not to bend the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ▶ Step 9 Keep the needle tip in the medicine and slowly pull the plunger rod back to draw up the prescribed dose in the syringe .
Check the prescription label for how much to draw up .
▶ Step 10 Remove large air bubbles in the syringe by gently tapping the syringe .
Then push the bubbles back into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ▶ Step 11 Repeat steps 9 and 10 until you have the correct prescribed dose in the syringe and no large bubbles .
▶ Step 12 Make sure you have the prescribed dose in the syringe , then remove the vial and prepare to give the dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Select and Prepare Injection Site ▶ Step 13 ▶ Step 14 VOXZOGO should be injected into the fatty layer under the skin ( subcutaneous ) only .
Do not inject into the same site 2 times in a row .
Wipe the injection site with an alcohol pad and let the skin air dry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving VOXZOGO Injection ▶ Step 15 ▶ Step 16 After wiping the site with an alcohol pad , pinch the skin up around the selected injection site .
Quickly insert the needle all the way into the skin at a 45 - degree angle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ▶ Step 17 Release the pinch and slowly push the plunger rod all the way down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Continue pressing the plunger rod until the needle retracts into the syringe .
▶ Step 18 Throw away the used vial , syringes and needles in a sharps container .
See " How to Throw Away ( Dispose of ) VOXZOGO " for more information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to Throw Away ( Dispose of ) VOXZOGO Put your used or expired vials , needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the vials , loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that : • is made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid without sharps being able to come out , • is upright and stable during use , • is leak - resistant , and • is properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be local or state laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
After the Injection • Inspect the injection site .
If a small amount of bleeding occurs from the injection site , gently press a gauze pad on it for a few seconds or apply a bandage .
Do not rub the injection site .
• Monitor for signs of low blood pressure , such as dizziness , tiredness , and nausea .
If your child experiences these symptoms you should call your child ' s healthcare provider , then get your child to lay back with legs raised .
For Help or More Information • Call your healthcare provider • Call BioMarin at 1 - 800 - 123 - 4567 • Visit www . VOXZOGO . com Manufactured for : BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc . , Novato , CA 94949 REP - 5233 - C10 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : November 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 68135 - 082 NDC 68135 - 082 - 36 Rx Only VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 0 . 4 mg per vial For Subcutaneous Use Only This carton contains : - Ten single - dose vials of Voxzogo - Ten disposable prefilled syringes containing 0 . 5 mL diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) for Voxzogo - Ten sterile , disposable needles for prefilled diluent syringes - Ten sterile disposable 1 mL syringes with needles for dosing - One Prescribing Information - One Instructions for Use - One Patient Information Must be reconstituted with diluent provided BiOMARIN ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 4 mg Vial Label VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 0 . 4 mg per vial Reconstitute Prior to Use For Subcutaneous Use Only Single - dose vial Rx Only LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 5 mL Syringe Label NDC 68135 - 070 - 12 Rx Only Diluent For VOXZOGO ™ for Injection 0 . 5 mL For drug diluent use only - reconstitute as directed Single - dose No preservative Distributed by : BioMarin MLC7246001 LOT : EXP : 10008821 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 68135 - 119 NDC 68135 - 119 - 66 Rx Only VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 0 . 56 mg per vial For Subcutaneous Use Only This carton contains : - Ten single - dose vials of Voxzogo - Ten disposable prefilled syringes containing 0 . 7 mL diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) for Voxzogo - Ten sterile , disposable needles for prefilled diluent syringes - Ten sterile disposable 1 mL syringes with needles for dosing - One Prescribing Information - One Instructions for Use - One Patient Information Must be reconstituted with diluent provided BiOMARIN ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 56 mg Vial Label VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 0 . 56 mg per vial Reconstitute Prior to Use For Subcutaneous Use Only Single - dose vial Rx Only LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 7 mL Syringe Label NDC 68135 - 102 - 43 Rx Only Diluent For VOXZOGO ™ for Injection 0 . 7 mL For drug diluent use only - reconstitute as directed Single - dose No preservative Distributed by : BioMarin MLC7246001 LOT : EXP : 10008843 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 68135 - 181 NDC 68135 - 181 - 93 Rx Only VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 1 . 2 mg per vial For Subcutaneous Use Only This carton contains : - Ten single - dose vials of Voxzogo - Ten disposable prefilled syringes containing 0 . 6 mL diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) for Voxzogo - Ten sterile , disposable needles for prefilled diluent syringes - Ten sterile disposable 1 mL syringes with needles for dosing - One Prescribing Information - One Instructions for Use - One Patient Information Must be reconstituted with diluent provided BiOMARIN ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 2 mg Vial Label VOXZOGO ™ ( vosoritide ) for injection 1 . 2 mg per vial Reconstitute Prior to Use For Subcutaneous Use Only Single - dose vial Rx Only LOT : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 6 mL Syringe Label NDC 68135 - 158 - 17 Rx Only Diluent For VOXZOGO ™ for Injection 0 . 6 mL For drug diluent use only - reconstitute as directed Single - dose No preservative Distributed by : BioMarin MLC7246201 LOT : EXP : 10008822 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
