Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Octinoxate 5 % , Octocrylene 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directons Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , Butylene glycol , Cetearyl glucoside , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Dimethicone , Mica , Cetearyl alcohol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP coplymer , Phenoxyethanol , Cyclohexasiloxane , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Xanthan gum , Methylparaben , Sodium ascorbyl phosphate , Dimethiconol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Polysorbate 20 , Haematococcus Pluvialis powder , BHT , Polyglucuronic acid , Potassium sorbate , Simethicone , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Biotin , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Firm , lift and brighten your skin with this multitasking day cream .
Formulated to give your skin an instant brightening boost and healthy glow , it then works day by day to chase away the signs of ageing .
Visibly reduces the appearance of lines and wrinkles , evens skin tone and lifts and firms for younger more luminous looking skin in 4 weeks .
Hypoallergenic The Boots company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 For Best Results : After cleansing , massage in small upward circles over your face and neck Our unique anti - ageing and energising complexes containing an effective fusion of pepides , lipoamino acid and Vitamin C work to smooth and firm your skin and restore natural radiance .
JAR TEXT Active ingredients : Octinoxate 6 % , Avobenzone 3 % , Octocrylene 1 % JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after applying your No7 serum .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com / no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream Visibly lifts and improves the appearance of deep lines in 4 weeks Sunscreen broad spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz No7 LL Day Cream SPF 15 carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] JAR TEXT No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream Hypo - allergenic Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz No7 LL Day Cream SPF 15 jar . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
