Drug Facts Active ingredient Minoxidil , USP 2 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment Use to regrow hair on the scalp Warnings For external use only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton , because this product may not work for you • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • your hair loss is associated with childbirth • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• in clinical studies of mostly white women aged 18 to 45 years with mild to moderate degrees of hair loss , the following response to 2 % minoxidil topical solution was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using 2 % minoxidil topical solution for 8 months ( 19 % had moderate regrowth ; 40 % had minimal regrowth ) .
This compares with 7 % of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using the placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it , for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth ; 33 % had minimal regrowth ) .
• store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients alcohol ( 60 % v / v ) , propylene glycol , purified water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Principal Display Panel Premier Value ® COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN WOMEN ’ S ROGAINE ® * For Women Minoxidil TOPICAL SOLUTION , USP 2 % HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Reactivates Hair Follicles to stimulate regrowth Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Unscented FOR BEST RESULTS APPLY DIRECTLY TO SCALP TWICE DAILY INDEPENDENTLY TESTED SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Two Month Supply Two 60 mL ( 2 fl oz ) Bottles [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
