[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : Povidone - Iodine is a broad - spectrum microbicide with the chemical formulas : 2 - pyrrolidinone , 1 - ethenyl - , homopolymer , compound with iodine ; 1 - vinyl - 2 - pyrrolidinone polymer , compound with iodine .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution contains 5 % povidone - iodine ( 0 . 5 % available iodine ) as a sterile dark brown solution stabilized by glycerin .
Inactive Ingredients : purified water , citric acid , glycerin , nonoxynol - 9 , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide , and dibasic sodium phosphate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : A placebo - controlled study in 38 normal volunteers yielded data for 36 subjects who showed a mean log10 reduction of 3 . 05 log10 units in total aerobes at 10 minutes following prepping the skin with BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution compared with reduction of 1 . 58 log10 units after prepping with vehicle free of the iodine complex .
This placebo - controlled study indicates a mean log10 reduction by the iodine complex compared with the control solution of 1 . 47 log10 units at 10 minutes and 1 . 79 log10 units at 45 minutes .
The base - line mean aerobic bacterial count was 7 , 586 organisms / cm2 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution for the eye is indicated for prepping of the periocular region ( lids , brow , and cheek ) and irrigation of the ocular surface ( cornea , conjunctiva , and palpebral fornices ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Do not use on individuals known to be sensitive to iodine , or other components of this product .
WARNINGS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRAOCULAR INJECTION OR IRRIGATION .
PRECAUTIONS : General : No studies are available in patients with thyroid disorders ; therefore , caution is advised in using BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution in these patients due to the possibility of iodine absorption .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of povidone - iodine .
One report of the mutagenic potential of povidone - iodine indicated that it was positive in a modification of the Ames S . typhimurium model , but these results could not be reproduced by another researcher .
Another test using mouse lymphoma and Balb / 3T3 cells showed that povidone - iodine has no significant mutagenic or transformation capabilities .
Other data indicated that it does not produce mutagenic effects in mice or hamsters according to the dominant lethal test , micronucleus test , and chromosome analysis .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution .
It is also not known whether BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution should only be used on a pregnant woman if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Local sensitivity has been exhibited by some individuals to povidone - iodine ophthalmic solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : While the inner surface and contents of the immediate container ( i . e . bottle ) are sterile , the outer surface of the bottle is not sterile .
The use of the bottle in a sterile field should be avoided .
BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution is used as follows : BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution is used as follows : • Make sure container is intact before use .
To open , COMPLETELY TWIST OFF TAB , do not pull off .
• Gently pour entire contents of bottle into a sterile prep cup .
Saturate sterile cotton - tipped applicator to prep lashes and lid margins using one or more applicators per lid ; repeat once .
• Saturate sterile prep sponge or other suitable material to prep lids , brow and cheek in a circular ever - expanding fashion until the entire field is covered ; repeat prep three ( 3 ) times .
• While separating the lids , irrigate the cornea , conjunctiva and palpebral fornices with BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution using a sterile bulb syringe .
• After the BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution has been left in contact for two minutes , sterile saline solution in a bulb syringe should be used to flush the residual prep solution from the cornea , conjunctiva , and the palpebral fornices .
HOW SUPPLIED : BETADINE * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution is packaged under sterile conditions , and supplied in 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) form sealed blue HDPE bottles .
Twenty - four ( 24 ) bottles are packed in each shipper .
NDC 0065 - 0411 - 30 Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Rx Only Single - use only @ 2021 Alcon Inc .
Alcon Manufactured for : Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
6201 South Freeway Fort Worth , TX 76134 Manufactured by : Woodstock Sterile Solutions , Inc .
Woodstock , IL 60098 * BETADINE is a registered trademark of Purdue Products L . P . STW - AC6024 - 642R01 Principal Display Panel NDC 0065 - 0411 - 30 Betadine * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution ( povidone - iodine ophthalmic solution ) For Pre - Operative Prep and Irrigation of the Ocular and Periocular Surfaces Flush eye thoroughly with sterile saline solution after each use .
Rx Only 1 Fl .
Oz .
( 30 mL ) Alcon Indications : For prepping of the periocular region ( lids , brow , and cheek ) and irrigation of the ocular surface ( cornea , conjunctiva , and palpebral fornices ) .
Contraindications : Do not use on individuals known to be sensitive to iodine or other components of this product .
Warning : For external use only .
NOT for intraocular injection or irrigation .
Read package insert for full use and directions and precautions .
Storage : 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Active Ingredient : povidone - iodine 5 % ( 0 . 5 % available iodine ) .
Inactive Ingredients : purified water , citric acid , dibasic sodium phosphate , glycerin , nonoxynol - 9 , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide .
Single use only .
Manufactured for : Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 Manufactured by : Woodstock Sterile Solutions Woodstock , IL 60098 * BETADINE Reg .
TM of Purdue Products L . P . Alcon Alcon Laboratories , Inc . 6201 South Freeway Fort Worth , Texas 76134 9008803 - 0515 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0065 - 0411 - 30 Betadine * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution ( povidone - iodine ophthalmic solution ) For Pre - Operative Prep and Irrigation of the Ocular and Periocular Surfaces Flush eye thoroughly with sterile saline solution after each use .
Rx Only 1 Fl .
Oz .
( 30 mL ) Alcon ® a Novartis company Indications : For prepping of the periocular region ( lids , brow , and cheek ) and irrigation of the ocular surface ( cornea , conjunctiva , and palpebral fornices ) .
Contraindications : Do not use on individuals known to be sensitive to iodine or other components of this product .
Warning : For external use only .
NOT for intraocular injection or irrigation .
Read package insert for full use and directions and precautions .
Storage : 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
© 2014 Novartis Active Ingredient : povidone - iodine 5 % ( 0 . 5 % available iodine ) .
Inactive Ingredients : purified water , citric acid , dibasic sodium phosphate , glycerin , nonoxynol - 9 , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide .
Single use only .
Manufactured for : Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 Manufactured by : Catalent Pharma Solutions , LLC Woodstock , IL 60098 * BETADINE Reg .
TM of Purdue Products L . P . Alcon ® Alcon Laboratories , Inc . 6201 South Freeway Fort Worth , Texas 76134 9008803 - 0514 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 0065 - 0411 - 30 Betadine * 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution ( povidone - iodine ophthalmic solution ) ( 0 . 5 % available iodine ) 1 fl .
oz .
( 30 mL ) SINGLE USE ONLY See package insert .
Alcon Mfd .
for Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA * BETADINE Reg .
TM of Purdue Products L . P . H12639 - 0515 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 0065 - 0411 - 30 Betadine ® 5 % Sterile Ophthalmic Prep Solution ( povidone - iodine ophthalmic solution ) ( 0 . 5 % available iodine ) 1 fl .
oz .
( 30 mL ) SINGLE USE ONLY See package insert .
Alcon Mfd .
for Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA H12639 - 0514 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
