DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic oral antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each benzonatate capsule USP contains : Benzonatate , USP 100 mg Benzonatate capsules USP also contain : bloom gelatin , glycerin , purified water , medium chain triglycerides , lecithin , isopropyl alcohol , nitrogen .
100 mg capsules also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 .
Each capsule also contains black iron oxide , propylene glycol , hypromellose as imprinting ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate capsules acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate capsules has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate capsules is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
Psychiatric Effects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior , including mental confusion and visual hallucinations , have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate capsules in combination with other prescribed drugs .
Accidental Ingestion and Death in Children Keep benzonatate capsules out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion of benzonatate capsules resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - amino - benzoic acid class ( e . g . procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for patients Swallow benzonatate capsules whole .
Do not break , chew , dissolve , cut , or crush benzonatate capsules .
Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
If numbness or tingling of the tongue , mouth , throat , or face occurs , refrain from oral ingestion of food or liquids until the numbness has resolved .
If the symptoms worsen or persist , seek medical attention .
Keep benzonatate capsules out of reach of children .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children .
Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion .
Signs and symptoms may include restlessness , tremors , convulsions , coma and cardiac arrest .
If accidental ingestion occurs , seek medical attention immediately .
Overdosage resulting in death may occur in adults .
Do not exceed a single dose of 200 mg and a total daily dosage of 600 mg .
If you miss a dose of benzonatate capsules , skip that dose and take the next dose at the next scheduled time .
Do not take 2 doses of benzonatate capsules at one time .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate capsules .
It is also not known whether benzonatate capsules can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate capsules should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk caution should be exercised when benzonatate capsules is administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate capsules .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
Accidental ingestion resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10 .
Keep out of reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential Adverse Reactions to benzonatate capsules may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation ; nausea ; GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Deliberate or accidental overdose has resulted in death , particularly in children .
OVERDOSAGE Intentional and unintentional overdose may result in death , particularly in children .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms The signs and symptoms of overdose of benzonatate have been reported within 15 - 20 minutes .
If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly , which may cause choking and airway compromise .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Convulsions , coma , cerebral edema and cardiac arrest leading to death have been reported within 1 hour of ingestion .
Treatment : In case of overdose , seek medical attention immediately .
Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag reflexes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturate given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age : Usual dose is one 100 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough .
If necessary to control cough , up to 600 mg daily in three divided doses may be given .
Benzonatate capsules should be swallowed whole .
Benzonatate capsules are not to be broken , chewed , dissolved , cut or crushed .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzonatate Capsules , USP are available in 100 mg dosage strengths .
The 100 mg capsules are yellow round capsules containing clear to light yellow liquid , printed with ‘ 1 ’ sign in black ink .
NDC 71205 - 853 - 10 bottles of 10 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 14 bottles of 14 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 15 bottles of 15 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 20 bottles of 20 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 21 bottles of 21 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 30 bottles of 30 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 00 bottles of 100 capsules NDC 71205 - 853 - 55 bottles of 500 capsules Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured by : Ascent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Central Islip , NY 11722 Manufactured for : Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Piscataway , NJ 08854 Repackaged and Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Rev : 07 / 21 Benzonatate Capsules 100 mg - 10 ct NDC : 71205 - 853 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
