A Topical Anesthetic for the Mucous Membranes of the Mouth and Pharynx .
FOR ORAL USE ONLY Rx only WARNING : Life - threatening and fatal events in infants and young children Postmarketing cases of seizures , cardiopulmonary arrest , and death in patients under the age of 3 years have been reported with use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) when it was not administered in strict adherence to the dosing and administration recommendations .
In the setting of teething pain , Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) should generally not be used .
For other conditions , the use of the product in patients less than 3 years of age should be limited to those situations where safer alternatives are not available or have been tried but failed .
To decrease the risk of serious adverse events with use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) , instruct caregivers to strictly adhere to the prescribed dose and frequency of administration and store the prescription bottle safely out of reach of children .
DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) contains a local anesthetic agent and is administered topically .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) contains lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate , which is chemically designated as 2 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 ' , 6 ' - acetoxylidide monohydrochloride monohydrate , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of lidocaine hydrochloride monohydrate is C14H22N2O • HCl • H2O .
The molecular weight is 288 . 81 .
COMPOSITION OF SOLUTION : Each mL contains 20 mg of lidocaine HCl , alcohol ( less than 0 . 1 % ) , artificial cherry flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , saccharin sodium , and sodium carboxymethyl cellulose in purified water .
The pH is adjusted to 5 . 5 to 6 . 5 with 10 % citric acid solution or 10 % sodium citrate solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Hemodynamics : Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
The net effect is normally a modest hypotension when the recommended dosages are not exceeded .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Lidocaine is absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption being dependent upon concentration and total dose administered , the specific site of application , and duration of exposure .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mcg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The elimination half - life of lidocaine following an intravenous bolus injection is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 mcg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 to 21 mcg / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % is indicated for the production of topical anesthesia of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx .
It is also useful for reducing gagging during the taking of X - ray pictures and dental impressions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to other components of the solution .
WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % should be used with extreme caution if the mucosa in the area of application has been traumatized , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
Life - threatening and fatal events in infants and young children Postmarketing cases of seizures , cardiopulmonary arrest , and death in patients under the age of 3 years have been reported with use of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) when it was not administered in strict adherence to the dosing and administration recommendations .
In the setting of teething pain , Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) should generally not be used .
For other conditions , the use of the product in patients less than 3 years of age should be limited to those situations where safer alternatives are not available or have been tried but failed .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure , and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions : Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , isofamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine Information for Patients Parents and caregivers should be cautioned about the following : • • For patients under 3 years of age , special care must be given to accurately measuring the prescribed dose and not administering the product more often than prescribed .
• • To ensure accuracy , we recommend you use a measuring device to carefully measure the correct volume .
• • The product should only be used for the prescribed indication .
• • To reduce the risk of accidental ingestion , the product container should be tightly closed and the product should be stored well out of reach of all children immediately after each use .
• • If the patient shows signs of systemic toxicity ( e . g . , lethargy , shallow breathing , seizure activity ) emergency medical attention should be sought immediately and no additional product should be administered .
• • Unused product should be discarded in a manner that prevents possible exposure to children and pets .
Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
All patients should be aware that when topical anesthetics are used in the mouth or throat , the production of topical anesthesia may impair swallowing and thus enhance the danger of aspiration .
For this reason , food should not be ingested for 60 minutes following use of local anesthetic preparations in the mouth or throat area .
This is particularly important in children because of their frequency of eating .
Numbness of the tongue or buccal mucosa may increase the danger of biting trauma .
For this reason food and / or chewing gum should not be used while the mouth or throat area is anesthetized .
General : The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depends on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose because of slow accumulation of the drug and / or its metabolites .
Tolerance varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age , weight and physical condition .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % should be used with caution in persons with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to paraaminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use : Dosages in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central Nervous System : CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular System : Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic : Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to the methylparaben and / or propylparaben used in this formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of Local Anesthetic Emergencies : The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen .
In situations where trained personnel are readily available , ventilation should be maintained and oxygen should be delivered by a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as indicated by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
The oral LD50 of lidocaine in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 to 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 to 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult The maximum recommended single dose of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % for healthy adults should be such that the dose of lidocaine HCl does not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg or 2 mg / lb body weight and does not in any case exceed a total of 300 mg .
For symptomatic treatment of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx , the usual adult dose is 15 mL undiluted .
For use in the mouth , the solution should be swished around in the mouth and spit out .
For use in the pharynx , the undiluted solution should be gargled and may be swallowed .
This dose should not be administered at intervals of less than three hours , and not more than eight doses should be given in a 24 - hour period .
The dosage should be adjusted commensurate with the patient ' s age , weight and physical condition ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric Care must be taken to ensure correct dosage in all pediatric patients as there have been cases of overdose due to inappropriate dosing .
It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development , the maximum dose is determined by the child ' s weight or age .
For example : in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 75 to 100 mg ( 3 . 7 to 5 mL of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ) .
For infants and in children under 3 years of age , the solution should be accurately measured and no more than 1 . 2 mL be applied to the immediate area with a cotton - tipped applicator .
Wait at least 3 hours before giving the next dose ; a maximum of four doses may be given in a 12 - hour period .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % should only be used if the underlying condition requires treatment with a volume of product that is less than or equal to 1 . 2 mL .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine Hydrochloride Oral Topical Solution , USP 2 % ( Viscous ) is supplied as a cherry - flavored , translucent , colorless to pale yellow viscous solution in 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) polyethylene squeeze bottles with a 100 mL fill ( NDC 68788 - 7999 - 1 ) .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at Controlled Room Temperature , 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
AVOID FREEZING SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP , with child - resistant closure .
Rx Only Product No . : 8464 Manufactured For : Wockhardt USA , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Manufactured By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 A50 - 8464 - 00 REV . 10 - 20 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL MGP NDC 68788 - 7999 - 1 LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE ORAL TOPICAL SOLUTION , USP 2 % ( VISCOUS ) Alcohol less than 0 . 1 % FOR ORAL USE ONLY DO NOT USE IF TAMPER - EVIDENT SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Rx Only NET : 100 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
