DESCRIPTION CIPRODEX ® ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension contains the synthetic broad - spectrum antibacterial agent , ciprofloxacin hydrochloride , combined with the anti - inflammatory corticosteroid , dexamethasone , in a sterile , preserved suspension for otic use .
Each mL of CIPRODEX ® Otic contains ciprofloxacin hydrochloride ( equivalent to 3 mg ciprofloxacin base ) , 1 mg dexamethasone , and 0 . 1 mg benzalkonium chloride as a preservative .
The inactive ingredients are boric acid , sodium chloride , hydroxyethyl cellulose , tyloxapol , acetic acid , sodium acetate , edetate disodium , and purified water .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be added for adjustment of pH . Ciprofloxacin , a fluoroquinolone is available as the monohydrochloride monohydrate salt of 1 - cyclopropyl - 6 - fluoro - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 4 - oxo - 7 - ( 1 - piperazinyl ) - 3 - quinolinecarboxylic acid .
The empirical formula is C17H18FN3O3 · HCl · H2O and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dexamethasone , 9 - fluoro - 11 ( beta ) , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 ( alpha ) - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , is an anti - inflammatory corticosteroid .
The empirical formula is C22H29FO5 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PharmacokineticsFollowing a single bilateral 4 - drop ( total dose = 0 . 28 mL , 0 . 84 mg ciprofloxacin , 0 . 28 mg dexamethasone ) topical otic dose of CIPRODEX ® Otic to pediatric patients after tympanostomy tube insertion , measurable plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin and dexamethasone were observed at 6 hours following administration in 2 of 9 patients and 5 of 9 patients , respectively .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin were 1 . 39 ± 0 . 880 ng / mL ( n = 9 ) .
Peak plasma concentrations ranged from 0 . 543 ng / mL to 3 . 45 ng / mL and were on average approximately 0 . 1 % of peak plasma concentrations achieved with an oral dose of 250 - mg [ 1 ] .
Peak plasma concentrations of ciprofloxacin were observed within 15 minutes to 2 hours post dose application .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations of dexamethasone were 1 . 14 ± 1 . 54 ng / mL ( n = 9 ) .
Peak plasma concentrations ranged from 0 . 135 ng / mL to 5 . 10 ng / mL and were on average approximately 14 % of peak concentrations reported in the literature following an oral 0 . 5 - mg tablet dose [ 2 ] .
Peak plasma concentrations of dexamethasone were observed within 15 minutes to 2 hours post dose application .
Dexamethasone has been added to aid in the resolution of the inflammatory response accompanying bacterial infection ( such as otorrhea in pediatric patients with AOM with tympanostomy tubes ) .
MicrobiologyCiprofloxacin has in vitro activity against a wide range of gram - positive and gram - negative microorganisms .
The bactericidal action of ciprofloxacin results from interference with the enzyme , DNA gyrase , which is needed for the synthesis of bacterial DNA .
Cross - resistance has been observed between ciprofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones .
There is generally no cross - resistance between ciprofloxacin and other classes of antibacterial agents such as beta - lactams or aminoglycosides .
Ciprofloxacin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and clinically in otic infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobic and facultative gram - positive microorganisms Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus pneumoniae Aerobic and facultative gram - negative microorganisms Haemophilus influenzae Moraxella catarrhalis Pseudomonas aeruginosa INDICATIONS AND USAGE CIPRODEX ® Otic is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below : Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients ( age 6 months and older ) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Acute Otitis Externa in pediatric ( age 6 months and older ) , adult and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CIPRODEX ® Otic is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin , to other quinolones , or to any of the components in this medication .
Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal including herpes simplex infections .
WARNINGS FOR OTIC USE ONLY ( This product is not approved for ophthalmic use . )
NOT FOR INJECTION CIPRODEX ® Otic should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions , some following the first dose , have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones .
Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralAs with other antibacterial preparations , use of this product may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including yeast and fungi .
If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment , cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment .
If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy , or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within six months , further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma , foreign body , or a tumor .
The systemic administration of quinolones , including ciprofloxacin at doses much higher than given or absorbed by the otic route , has led to lesions or erosions of the cartilage in weight - bearing joints and other signs of arthropathy in immature animals of various species .
Guinea pigs dosed in the middle ear with CIPRODEX ® Otic for one month exhibited no drug - related structural or functional changes of the cochlear hair cells and no lesions in the ossicles .
CIPRODEX ® Otic was also shown to lack dermal sensitizing potential in the guinea pig when tested according to the method of Buehler .
No signs of local irritation were found when CIPRODEX ® Otic was applied topically in the rabbit eye .
Information for PatientsFor otic use only .
( This product is not approved for use in the eye . )
Warm the bottle in your hand for one to two minutes prior to use and shake well immediately before using .
Avoid contaminating the tip with material from the ear , fingers , or other sources .
Protect from light .
If rash or allergic reaction occurs , discontinue use immediately and contact your physician .
It is very important to use the ear drops for as long as the doctor has instructed , even if the symptoms improve .
Discard unused portion after therapy is completed .
Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes Prior to administration of CIPRODEX ® Otic in patients ( 6 months and older ) with acute otitis media through tympanostomy tubes , the suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
The tragus should then be pumped 5 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Acute Otitis Externa Prior to administration of CIPRODEX ® Otic in patients with acute otitis externa , the suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug InteractionsSpecific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with CIPRODEX ® Otic .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityLong - term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin .
After daily oral doses of 750 mg / kg ( mice ) and 250 mg / kg ( rats ) were administered for up to 2 years , there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species .
No long term studies of CIPRODEX ® Otic have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin , and the test results are listed below : Salmonella / Microsome Test ( Negative ) E . coli DNA Repair Assay ( Negative ) Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay ( Positive ) Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test ( Negative ) Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay ( Negative ) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay ( Negative ) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay ( Negative ) Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay ( Positive ) Thus , 2 of the 8 tests were positive , but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results : Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay Micronucleus Test ( Mice ) Dominant Lethal Test ( Mice ) Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of impairment .
This would be over 100 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area , assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with CIPRODEX ® Otic twice per day according to label directions .
Long term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of topical otic dexamethasone .
Dexamethasone has been tested for in vitro and in vivo genotoxic potential and shown to be positive in the following assays ; chromosomal aberrations , sister - chromatid exchange in human lymphocytes and micronuclei and sister - chromatid exchanges in mouse bone marrow .
However , the Ames / Salmonella assay , both with and without S9 mix , did not show any increase in His + revertants .
The effect of dexamethasone on fertility has not been investigated following topical otic application .
However , the lowest toxic dose of dexamethasone identified following topical dermal application was 1 . 802 mg / kg in a 26 - week study in male rats and resulted in changes to the testes , epididymis , sperm duct , prostate , seminal vessicle , Cowper ’ s gland and accessory glands .
The relevance of this study for short term topical otic use is unknown .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral doses of up to 100 mg / kg and IV doses up to 30 mg / kg and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus as a result of ciprofloxacin .
In rabbits , ciprofloxacin ( 30 and 100 mg / kg orally ) produced gastrointestinal disturbances resulting in maternal weight loss and an increased incidence of abortion , but no teratogenicity was observed at either dose .
After intravenous administration of doses up to 20 mg / kg , no maternal toxicity was produced in the rabbit , and no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with CIPRODEX ® Otic .
No adequate and well controlled studies have been performed in pregnant women .
Caution should be exercised when CIPRODEX ® Otic is used by a pregnant woman .
Nursing MothersCiprofloxacin and corticosteroids , as a class , appear in milk following oral administration .
Dexamethasone in breast milk could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical otic administration of ciprofloxacin or dexamethasone could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because of the potential for unwanted effects in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseThe safety and efficacy of CIPRODEX ® Otic have been established in pediatric patients 6 months and older ( 937 patients ) in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Although no data are available on patients less than age 6 months , there are no known safety concerns or differences in the disease process in this population that would preclude use of this product .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
No clinically relevant changes in hearing function were observed in 69 pediatric patients ( age 4 to 12 years ) treated with CIPRODEX ® Otic and tested for audiometric parameters .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phases II and III clinical trials , a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX ® Otic .
This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa .
The reported treatment - related adverse events are listed below : Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes The following treatment - related adverse events occurred in 0 . 5 % or more of the patients with non - intact tympanic membranes .
Adverse Event Incidence ( N = 400 ) Ear discomfort 3 . 0 % Ear pain 2 . 3 % Ear precipitate ( residue ) 0 . 5 % Irritability 0 . 5 % Taste perversion 0 . 5 % The following treatment - related adverse events were each reported in a single patient : tympanostomy tube blockage ; ear pruritus ; tinnitus ; oral moniliasis ; crying ; dizziness ; and erythema .
Acute Otitis Externa The following treatment - related adverse events occurred in 0 . 4 % or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes .
Adverse Event Incidence ( N = 537 ) Ear pruritus 1 . 5 % Ear debris 0 . 6 % Superimposed ear infection 0 . 6 % Ear congestion 0 . 4 % Ear pain 0 . 4 % Erythema 0 . 4 % The following treatment - related adverse events occurred in 0 . 4 % or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes .
The following treatment - related adverse events were each reported in a single patient : ear discomfort ; decreased hearing ; and ear disorder ( tingling ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CIPRODEX ® OTIC SHOULD BE SHAKEN WELL IMMEDIATELY BEFORE USE CIPRODEX ® Otic contains 3 mg / mL ( 3000 µg / mL ) ciprofloxacin and 1 mg / mL dexamethasone .
Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes : The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients ( age 6 months and older ) through tympanostomy tubes is : Four drops ( 0 . 14 mL , 0 . 42 mg ciprofloxacin , 0 . 14 mg dexamethasone ) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days .
The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness , which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
The tragus should then be pumped 5 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
Discard unused portion after therapy is completed .
Acute Otitis Externa : The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of acute otitis externa is : For patients ( age 6 months and older ) : Four drops ( 0 . 14 mL , 0 . 42 mg ciprofloxacin , 0 . 14 mg dexamethasone ) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days .
The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness , which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward , and then the drops should be instilled .
This position should be maintained for 60 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
Discard unused portion after therapy is completed .
HOW SUPPLIED CIPRODEX ® ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension is supplied as follows : 7 . 5 mL fill in a DROP - TAINER ® system .
The DROP - TAINER ® system consists of a natural polyethylene bottle and natural plug , with a white polypropylene closure .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
NDC 54868 - 4928 - 0 , 7 . 5 mL fill StorageStore at controlled room temperature , 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , multicenter , controlled clinical trial , CIPRODEX ® Otic dosed 2 times per day for 7 days demonstrated clinical cures in the per protocol analysis in 86 % of AOMT patients compared to 79 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % , dosed 2 times per day for 10 days .
Among culture positive patients , clinical cures were 90 % for CIPRODEX ® Otic compared to 79 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % .
Microbiological eradication rates for these patients in the same clinical trial were 91 % for CIPRODEX ® Otic compared to 82 % for ofloxacin solution , 0 . 3 % .
In 2 randomized multicenter , controlled clinical trials , CIPRODEX ® Otic dosed 2 times per day for 7 days demonstrated clinical cures in 87 % and 94 % of per protocol evaluable AOE patients , respectively , compared to 84 % and 89 % , respectively , for otic suspension containing neomycin 0 . 35 % , polymyxin B 10 , 000 IU / mL , and hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % ( neo / poly / HC ) .
Among culture positive patients clinical cures were 86 % and 92 % for CIPRODEX ® Otic compared to 84 % and 89 % , respectively , for neo / poly / HC .
Microbiological eradication rates for these patients in the same clinical trials were 86 % and 92 % for CIPRODEX ® Otic compared to 85 % and 85 % , respectively , for neo / poly / HC .
REFERENCES 1 .
Campoli - Richards DM , Monk JP , Price A , Benfield P , Todd PA , Ward A . Ciprofloxacin : A review of its antibacterial activity , pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic use .
Drugs 1988 ; 35 : 373 - 447 .
2 .
Loew D , Schuster O , and Graul E . Dose - dependent pharmacokinetics of dexamethasone .
Eur J Clin Pharmacol 1986 ; 30 : 225 - 230 .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 844 , 902 ; 6 , 284 , 804 ; 6 , 359 , 016 CIPRODEX ® is a registered trademark of Bayer AG .
Licensed to Alcon , Inc . by Bayer AG .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Rx Only © 2003 , 2004 Alcon , Inc .
Revision date : 17 July 2003 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 CIPRODEX ® ( CI - PRO - DEX ) ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension IMPORTANT PATIENT INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS .
READ BEFORE USE .
What is CIPRODEX ® Otic ?
CIPRODEX ® Otic is an antibiotic / steroid combination product in a sterile suspension used to treat : • Middle Ear Infection with Drainage Through a Tube in Children 6 months and older : A middle ear infection is a bacterial infection behind the eardrum .
People with a tube in the eardrum may notice drainage from the ear canal .
• Outer Ear Canal Infection in Patients 6 months and older : An outer ear canal infection , also known as " Swimmer ' s Ear " , is a bacterial infection of the outer ear canal .
The ear canal and the outer part of the ear may swell , turn red , and be painful .
Also , a fluid discharge may appear in the ear canal .
Who should NOT use CIPRODEX ® Otic ?
• Do not use this product if allergic to ciprofloxacin or to other quinolone antibiotics .
• Do not use this product if allergic to dexamethasone or to other steroids .
• Do not give this product to pediatric patients who are less than 6 months old .
How often should CIPRODEX ® Otic be given ?
CIPRODEX ® Otic ear drops should be given 2 times each day ( about 12 hours apart , for example , 8 AM and 8 PM ) in each infected ear unless the doctor has instructed otherwise .
The best times to use the ear drops are in the morning and at night .
It is very important to use the ear drops for as long as the doctor has instructed , even if the symptoms improve .
If CIPRODEX ® Otic ear drops are not used for as long as the doctor has instructed , the infection may return .
What if a dose is missed ?
If a dose of CIPRODEX ® Otic is missed , it should be given as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to the regular dosing schedule .
Do not use a double dose unless the doctor has instructed you to do so .
If the infection is not improved after one week , you should consult your doctor .
If you have two or more episodes of drainage within six months , it is recommended you see your doctor for further evaluation .
What activities should be avoided while using CIPRODEX ® Otic ?
It is important that the infected ear ( s ) remain clean and dry .
When bathing , avoid getting the infected ear ( s ) wet .
Avoid swimming unless the doctor has instructed otherwise .
What are the possible side effects of CIPRODEX ® Otic ?
During the testing of CIPRODEX ® Otic for middle ear infections , the most common side effect related to CIPRODEX ® Otic was ear discomfort that occurred in up to 3 out of 100 patients .
Other common side effects were : ear pain ; ear precipitate ( residue ) ; irritability ; and abnormal taste .
During the testing of CIPRODEX ® Otic for ear canal infections , the most common side effect related to CIPRODEX ® Otic was itching of the ear that occurred in 1 to 2 out of 100 patients .
Other common side effects were : ear debris ; ear infection in the treated ear ; ear congestion ; ear pain ; and rash .
If any of these side effects persist , call the doctor .
If an allergic reaction to CIPRODEX ® Otic occurs , stop using the product and contact your doctor .
DO NOT TAKE BY MOUTH If CIPRODEX ® Otic is accidentally swallowed or overdose occurs , call the doctor immediately .
This medicine is available only with a doctor ' s prescription .
Use only as directed .
Do not use this medicine if outdated .
If you wish to learn more about CIPRODEX ® Otic , call your doctor or pharmacist .
HOW SUPPLIED CIPRODEX ® Otic is supplied as follows : 7 . 5 mL fill in a DROP - TAINER ® system .
The DROP - TAINER ® system consists of a natural polyethylene bottle and natural plug , with a white polypropylene closure .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
NDC 0065 - 8533 - 02 , 7 . 5 mL fill StorageStore at controlled room temperature , 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 844 , 902 ; 6 , 284 , 804 ; 6 , 359 , 016 CIPRODEX ® is a registered trademark of Bayer AG .
Licensed to Alcon , Inc . by Bayer AG .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Rx Only © 2003 , 2004 Alcon , Inc .
How should CIPRODEX ® Otic be given ?
1 .
Wash hands [ MULTIMEDIA ] The person giving CIPRODEX ® Otic should wash his / her hands with soap and water .
2 .
Warm & shake bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hold the bottle of CIPRODEX ® Otic in the hand for one or two minutes to warm the suspension , then shake well .
3 .
Add drops [ MULTIMEDIA ] The person receiving CIPRODEX ® Otic should lie on his / her side with the infected ear up .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients should have 4 drops of CIPRODEX ® Otic put into the infected ear .
The tip of the bottle should not touch the fingers , or the ear , or any other surfaces .
BE SURE TO FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS BELOW FOR THE PATIENT ' S SPECIFIC EAR INFECTION .
4 .
For Patients with Middle Ear Infection with Tubes : [ MULTIMEDIA ] While the person receiving CIPRODEX ® Otic lies on his / her side , the person giving the drops should gently press the tragus ( see diagram ) 5 times in a pumping motion .
This will allow the drops to pass through the tube in the eardrum and into the middle ear .
5 .
For Patients with Outer Ear Infection ( " Swimmer ' s Ear " ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] While the person receiving the drops lies on his / her side , the person giving the drops should gently pull the outer ear lobe upward and backward .
This will allow the ear drops to flow down into the ear canal .
6 .
Stay on side [ MULTIMEDIA ] The person who received the ear drops should remain on his / her side for at least 60 seconds .
Repeat Steps 2 - 5 for the other ear if both ears are infected .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CIPRODEX ® ( CI - PRO - DEX ) ( ciprofloxacin 0 . 3 % and dexamethasone 0 . 1 % ) Sterile Otic Suspension [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
