Rx Only DESCRIPTION BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths are a topical preparation containing 6 . 0 % benzoyl peroxide .
Each gram of BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths wash contains 60 mg of Benzoyl Peroxide as micronized particles .
Ingredients include Purified Water , Carbomer 1342 , Sodium Hyaluronate , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerine , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Sodium Lauryl Sulfoacetate and Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Sodium PCA , Sodium Hydroxide 10 % Solution , Zinc Lactate , Citric Acid , Sodium Citrate , Benzoyl Peroxide 6 . 0 % , Docusate Sodium .
Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent that possesses antibacterial properties and is classified as a keratolytic .
Benzoyl peroxide ( C14H10O4 ) is represented by the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact method of action of benzoyl peroxide in acne vulgaris is not known .
Benzoyl peroxide is an antibacterial agent with demonstrated activity against Propionibacterium acnes .
This action , combined with the mild keratolytic effect of benzoyl peroxide , is believed to be responsible for its usefulness in acne .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is metabolized to benzoic acid and excreted as benzoate in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths are indicated for use in the topical treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths should not be used in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to benzoyl peroxide or to any of the other ingredients in the product .
Discontinue use if hypersensitivity is observed .
WARNINGS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
When using this product , skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if : • you leave BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths on your skin longer than directed • you use another topical acne medication at the same time Do not use this product if you : • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product : • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor : • if irritation becomes severe .
PRECAUTIONS General If severe irritation develops , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Information for patients This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips , and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive redness or irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Based upon all available evidence , benzoyl peroxide is not considered to be a carcinogen .
However , data from a study using mice known to be highly susceptible to cancer suggest that benzoyl peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of the findings is not known .
Pregnancy Category C animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
It is also not known whether benzoyl peroxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzoyl peroxide should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in the human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzoyl peroxide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic contact dermatitis and dryness have been reported with topical benzoyl peroxide therapy .
OVERDOSAGE If excessive scaling , erythema or edema occurs , the use of this preparation should be discontinued .
To hasten resolution of the adverse effects , cool compresses may be used .
After symptoms and signs subside , a reduced dosage schedule may be cautiously tried if the reaction is judged to be due to excessive use and not allergenicity .
DIRECTIONS Avoid contact with hair , fabrics or carpeting as benzoyl peroxide will cause bleaching or discoloration .
Wash affected areas once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
• Wet face with water .
• Wet cloth with a little waterand work into a full lather .
• Cleanse face with cloth for 10 - 20 seconds avoiding eyes .
• Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
• Throw away cloth .
Do not flush .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
HOW SUPPLIED BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths are supplied in a carton containing 60 × 3 . 2 g individually wrapped benzoyl peroxide 6 % foaming cloths ( NDC 42546 - 016 - 60 ) .
Store at room temperature : 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : PruGen Pharmaceuticals 18899 N Thompson Peak Pkwy Scottsdale , AZ 85255 www . prugen . com Rev . 3 . 0 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 Cloth Packet Carton NDC 42546 - 016 - 60 Rx only BenzePrO ® Foaming Cloths benzoyl peroxide 6 . 0 % 60 cloths Net wt .
3 . 2 g each PRUGEN PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
