Active Ingredients - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Active Ingredient : ......... Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Purpose - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Triple Antibiotic Uses - Genuine Triple Antibiotic To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes ; burns Warnings - Genuine Triple Antibiotic For external use only DO NOT USE - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician .
Stop Use - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep Out of Reach of Children - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage Storage and Handling - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Other information : Store at room temperature .
Inactive Ingredients - Genuine Triple Antibiotic Vaseline Mineral Oil Purified Water Active Ingredients - Antiseptic Active Ingredient : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 Purpose - Antiseptic Antiseptic Use - Antiseptic For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings - Antiseptic Warning : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children - Antiseptic Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop Use - Antiseptic Stop use if unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur .
Consult a physician immediately .
Do Not Use - Antiseptic Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body .
Directions - Antiseptic Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive Ingredients - Antiseptic Inactive Ingredient : Purified water Active Ingredients - Non - Aspirin Acetaminophen 500 mg Purpose - Non Aspirin Analgesic / antipyretic Uses - Non Aspirin temporary relief of minor aches and pains associated with : common cold ; headache ; toothache ; muscular aches ; backache ; arthritis ; menstrual cramps ; and reduction of fever Warnings - Non Aspirin Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if : adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount ; child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours ; taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen ; adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do Not Use - Non Aspirin with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist ; for more than 10 days for pain unless directed by a doctor ; for more than 3 days for fever unless directed by a doctor Ask a Doctor - Non Aspirin Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop Use - Non Aspirin Stop use and ask a doctor if : symptoms do not improve ; pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days ; fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days ; new symptoms occur ; redness or swelling is present ; a rare sensitivity reaction occurs Pregnancy - Non Aspirin If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children - Non Aspirin Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , contact a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Do not exceed recommended dosage Inactive Ingredients - Non Aspirin Cornstarch , polyethylene glycol , stearic acid , povidone Directions - Non Aspirin Directions Adults and Children Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as 12 years of age needed .
Do not take more than 12 tablets or older in 24 hours .
Children 6 - 11 years Take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours as of age needed .
Do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours .
Children under 6 Do not use this regular strength product .
years of age This will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) and could cause serious health problems .
Storage and Handling - Non Aspirin Store at 59 - 86 degree F ( 15 - 30 degree C ) tamper evident sealed packets ; do not use any open or torn packets Active Ingredients - After Bite Active Ingredient : Ammonia 3 . 5 % Purpose - After Bite Counterirritant Uses - After Bite Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irriatation and itching due to • insect bites and stings • poison ivy , oak or sumac Warnings - After Bite Warning : For external use only .
Keep Out of Reach of Children - After Bite Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop Use - After Bite Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days When Using - After Bite Do not get into eyes DIrections - After Bite Adults and children under 2 years and older dab directly on bite or sting , rub gently and re - apply as needed Children under 2 years ask a doctor Active Ingredient - Aspirin Aspirin ( NSAID * ) 325 mg * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain Releiver / Fever Reducer Uses - Aspirin Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains associated with : headache ; muscular aches ; minor arthritis pain ; backache ; common cold ; toothache ; mentrual cramps ; temporarily reduces fever Warnings Reye ' s syndrome : Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox of flu - like symptoms should not use this product .
When using this product , if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur , consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye ' s syndrome , a rare but serious illness .
Allergy Alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include : hives , skin reddening , facial swelling , rash , asthma ( wheezing ) , blisters , shock .
If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The change is higher if you : are age 60 or older ; have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ; take a blood thinner ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug ; take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) , have 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product , take more for a longer time than directed Do Not Use - Aspirin Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer ; right before or after heart surgery ; if you are taking a prescription drug for gout , diabetes or arthritis .
Ask a doctor before use if : stomach bleeding warning applies to you ; you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn ; you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis or kidney disease ; you are taking a diuretic .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are : under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition ; taking any other drug .
When using this product : Take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs .
Stop Use and ask a Doctor - Aspirin Stop Use and ask a Doctor if : You experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding , you feel faint , vomit blood , have bloody or black stools , have stomach pain that does not get better , pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days , fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days , you have difficulty swallowing , if ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs , redness or swelling is present in painful areas , or any new symptoms appear .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of Children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions - Aspirin Do not use more than directed - the smallest effective dose should be used .
Drink a full glass of water with each dose .
Do not take longer than 10 days , unless directed by a doctor .
Adults and Children ( 12 years and older ) : take 1 or 2 tablets with water every 4 hours as needed .
Do not take more then 12 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 12 years : Do not give to children under 12 years of age .
Avoid excessive heat and humidity , do not use any open or torn packets .
Inactive Ingredients - Aspirin hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , corn starc Active Ingredient - Diphenhydramine Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride 25 mg Purpose - Diphenhydramine Antihistimine Use - Diphenhydramine Temporarily relieves the following symptoms associated with hay fever or oother upper respiratory allergies : runny nose , sneezing , itching of the nose or throat , itchy , watery eyes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have : a breathing problem such as emphyseme or chronic bronchitis , glaucoma , difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland ; or if you are : taking any drugs for asthma , sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product : Drowziness may occur , avoid alcoholic beverages .
Alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowziness effect .
Use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Excitality may occur , especially in children .
Keep out of Reach of Children Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , contact a physician or poison control center immediately .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using the product .
Dosage - Diphenhydramine Adults and Children ( 12 Years and older ) - take 1 capsule every 4 to 6 hours as needed .
Do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 12 years - do not give to children under 12 years unless directed by a doctor Inactive Ingredients DandC Red 28 , FDandC Blue 1 , FDandC Red 40 , gelatin , starch Active Ingredient - Alcohol Pad Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Uses - Alcohol Prep Pad For preparation of the skin before injection Warnings - Alcohol Prep Pad For External Use Only Flammable - Keep away from fire or flame Do Not Use - with electrocautery , in eyes Stop Use and Ask a Doctor if - Irritation or redness develop and persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of Reach of Children If Swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away Directions - Alcohol Prep Pad Tear Open packet , unfold and use as and wipe injection site vigorously and discard .
Store at Room Temperature Inactive Ingredients - Alcohol Pad Water Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
