Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 70 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire / flame For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wipe hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera extract , benzalkonium chloride , betaine , citric acid , glycerin , hexadecylpyridinium chloride , lauryl glucoside , propanediol , sodium citrate , vitamin E , water ( aqua ) Questions ?
+ 1 - 831 - 246 - 0428 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM TRUSTED BY PROFESSIONALS 70 % ALCOHOL Peace of Mind with PurTouch PurTouch is here to give you and your loved ones comfort in knowing that whatever life throws in front of you , you can walk away clean .
Our commercial sanitizing wipes helps to reduce bacteria with Aloe and Vitamin E it ’ s gentle on your hands .
PurTouch Gives Back PurTouch is committed to keeping everyone safe and clean .
We pledge to donate a portion of proceeds , through providing free hand sanitizer and wipes to organizations in need .
Thank you for helping us support these important causes !
HANDS PLEASE RECYCLE Intended For External Use Only Lot No : Expiry : Distributed by : PurTouch LLC , 343 Soquel Ave # 190 , Santa Cruz , CA , 95062 COUNTRY OF ORIGIN : CHINA info @ purtouchclean . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
