WARNING : INCREASED RISK OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM AND DEATH FROM STROKE WARNING : INCREASED RISK OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM AND DEATH FROM STROKE • Increased risk of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have been reported with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Women with active or past history of venous thromboembolism should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
• Increased risk of death due to stroke occurred in a trial in postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for major coronary events .
Consider risk - benefit balance in women at risk for stroke [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
WARNING : INCREASED RISK OF VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM AND DEATH FROM STROKE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Increased risk of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have been reported with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ( 5 . 1 ) .
Women with active or past history of venous thromboembolism should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ( 4 . 1 ) .
• Increased risk of death due to stroke occurred in a trial in postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for major coronary events .
Consider risk - benefit balance in women at risk for stroke ( 5 . 2 , 14 . 5 ) .
RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Boxed Warning 9 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions , Death Due to Stroke ( 5 . 2 ) 7 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions , Cardiovascular Disease ( 5 . 3 ) 7 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions , Renal Impairment ( 5 . 8 ) 7 / 2007 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Raloxifene hydrochloride tablet , USP is an estrogen agonist / antagonist indicated for : • Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 60 mg tablet orally once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dosage is one 60 mg raloxifene hydrochloride tablet daily , which may be administered any time of day without regard to meals [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation For osteoporosis treatment , supplemental calcium and / or vitamin D should be added to the diet if daily intake is inadequate .
Postmenopausal women require an average of 1500 mg / day of elemental calcium .
Total daily intake of calcium above 1500 mg has not demonstrated additional bone benefits while daily intake above 2000 mg has been associated with increased risk of adverse effects , including hypercalcemia and kidney stones .
The recommended intake of vitamin D is 400 - 800 IU daily .
Patients at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency ( e . g . , over the age of 70 years , nursing home bound , or chronically ill ) may need additional vitamin D supplements .
Patients with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes may require higher doses of vitamin D supplementation and measurement of 25 - hydroxyvitamin D should be considered .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 60 mg , White film coated round biconvex tablets ( not scored ) de - bossed with IG on one side and 256 on the other .
Tablets ( not scored ) : 60 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active or past history of venous thromboembolism , including deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and retinal vein thrombosis .
( 4 . 1 ) • Pregnancy , women who may become pregnant , and nursing mothers .
( 4 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Venous Thromboembolism Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in women with active or past history of venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) , including deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and retinal vein thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Pregnancy , Women Who May Become Pregnant , and Nursing Mothers Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in pregnancy , in women who may become pregnant , and in nursing mothers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In rabbit studies , abortion and a low rate of fetal heart anomalies ( ventricular septal defects ) occurred in rabbits at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg ( ≥ 0 . 04 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) , and hydrocephaly was observed in fetuses at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg ( ≥ 4 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) .
In rat studies , retardation of fetal development and developmental abnormalities ( wavy ribs , kidney cavitation ) occurred at doses ≥ 1 mg / kg ( ≥ 0 . 2 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) .
Treatment of rats at doses of 0 . 1 to 10 mg / kg ( 0 . 02 to 1 . 6 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) during gestation and lactation produced effects that included delayed and disrupted parturition ; decreased neonatal survival and altered physical development ; sex - and age - specific reductions in growth and changes in pituitary hormone content ; and decreased lymphoid compartment size in offspring .
At 10 mg / kg , raloxifene disrupted parturition , which resulted in maternal and progeny death and morbidity .
Effects in adult offspring ( 4 months of age ) included uterine hypoplasia and reduced fertility ; however , no ovarian or vaginal pathology was observed .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Venous Thromboembolism : Increased risk of deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and retinal vein thrombosis .
Discontinue use 72 hours prior to and during prolonged immobilization .
( 5 . 1 , 6 . 1 ) • Death Due to Stroke : Increased risk of death due to stroke occurred in a trial in postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for major coronary events .
No increased risk of stroke was seen in this trial .
Consider risk - benefit balance in women at risk for stroke .
( 5 . 2 , 14 . 5 ) • Cardiovascular Disease : Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be used for the primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease .
( 5 . 3 , 14 . 5 ) • Premenopausal Women : Use is not recommended .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Use with caution .
( 5 . 5 ) • Concomitant Use with Systemic Estrogens : Not recommended .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hypertriglyceridemia : If previous treatment with estrogen resulted in hypertriglyceridemia , monitor serum triglycerides .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Venous Thromboembolism In clinical trials , raloxifene hydrochloride - treated women had an increased risk of venous thromboembolism ( deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism ) .
Other venous thromboembolic events also could occur .
A less serious event , superficial thrombophlebitis , also has been reported more frequently with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets than with placebo .
The greatest risk for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism occurs during the first 4 months of treatment , and the magnitude of risk appears to be similar to the reported risk associated with use of hormone therapy .
Because immobilization increases the risk for venous thromboembolic events independent of therapy , raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued at least 72 hours prior to and during prolonged immobilization ( e . g . , post - surgical recovery , prolonged bed rest ) , and raloxifene hydrochloride tablets therapy should be resumed only after the patient is fully ambulatory .
In addition , women taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be advised to move about periodically during prolonged travel .
The risk - benefit balance should be considered in women at risk of thromboembolic disease for other reasons , such as congestive heart failure , superficial thrombophlebitis , and active malignancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Death Due to Stroke In a clinical trial of postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for coronary events , an increased risk of death due to stroke was observed after treatment with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
During an average follow - up of 5 . 6 years , 59 ( 1 . 2 % ) raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women died due to a stroke compared to 39 ( 0 . 8 % ) placebo - treated women ( 22 versus 15 per 10 , 000 women - years ; hazard ratio 1 . 49 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1 . 00 - 2 . 24 ; p = 0 . 0499 ) .
There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups in a incidence of stroke ( 249 in raloxifene hydrochloride tablets [ 4 . 9 % ] versus 224 placebo [ 4 . 4 % ] ) .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets had no significant effect on all - cause mortality .
The risk - benefit balance should be considered in women at risk for stroke , such as prior stroke or transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) , atrial fibrillation , hypertension , or cigarette smoking [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cardiovascular Disease Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be used for the primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease .
In a clinical trial of postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for coronary events , no cardiovascular benefit was demonstrated after treatment with raloxifene for 5 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 4 Premenopausal Use There is no indication for premenopausal use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Safety of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets in premenopausal women has not been established and its use is not recommended .
5 . 5 Hepatic Impairment Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Safety and efficacy have not been established in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Concomitant Estrogen Therapy The safety of concomitant use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets with systemic estrogens has not been established and its use is not recommended .
5 . 7 History of Hypertriglyceridemia when Treated with Estrogens Limited clinical data suggest that some women with a history of marked hypertriglyceridemia ( > 5 . 6 mmol / L or > 500 mg / dL ) in response to treatment with oral estrogen or estrogen plus progestin may develop increased levels of triglycerides when treated with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Women with this medical history should have serum triglycerides monitored when taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
5 . 8 Renal Impairment Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment .
Safety and efficacy have not been established in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 9 History of Breast Cancer Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets have not been adequately studied in women with a prior history of breast cancer .
5 . 10 Use in Men There is no indication for the use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets in men .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets have not been adequately studied in men and its use is not recommended .
5 . 11 Unexplained Uterine Bleeding Any unexplained uterine bleeding should be investigated as clinically indicated .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated and placebo - treated groups had similar incidences of endometrial proliferation [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 12 Breast Abnormalities Any unexplained breast abnormality occurring during raloxifene hydrochloride tablets therapy should be investigated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions ( > 2 % and more common than with placebo ) include : hot flashes , leg cramps , peripheral edema , flu syndrome , arthralgia , sweating .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc at 1 - 866 - 495 - 8330 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to raloxifene hydrochloride tablets in 8429 patients who were enrolled in placebo - controlled trials , including 6666 exposed for 1 year and 5685 for at least 3 years .
Osteoporosis Treatment Clinical Trial — The safety of raloxifene in a treatment of osteoporosis was assessed in a large ( 7705 patients ) multinational , placebo - controlled trial .
Duration of treatment was 36 months , and 5129 postmenopausal women were exposed to raloxifene ( 2557 received 60 mg / day , and 2572 received 120 mg / day ) .
The incidence of all - cause mortality was similar among groups : 23 ( 0 . 9 % ) placebo , 13 ( 0 . 5 % ) raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated ( raloxifene 60 mg ) , and 28 ( 1 . 1 % ) raloxifene 120 mg women died .
Therapy was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 10 . 9 % of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women and 8 . 8 % of placebo - treated women .
Venous Thromboembolism : The most serious adverse reaction related to raloxifene hydrochloride tablets was VTE ( deep venous thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , and retinal vein thrombosis ) .
During an average of study - drug exposure of 2 . 6 years , VTE occurred in about 1 out of 100 patients treated with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Twenty - six raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women had a VTE compared to 11 placebo - treated women , the hazard ratio was 2 . 4 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1 . 2 , 4 . 5 ) , and the highest VTE risk was during the initial months of treatment .
Common adverse reactions considered to be related to raloxifene hydrochloride tablets therapy were hot flashes and leg cramps .
Hot flashes occurred in about one in 10 patients on raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and were most commonly reported during the first 6 months of treatment and were not different from placebo thereafter .
Leg cramps occurred in about one in 14 patients on raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions occurring in osteoporosis treatment and placebo - controlled clinical trials at a frequency ≥ 2 . 0 % in a raloxifene hydrochloride - treated women than in placebo - treated women .
Adverse reactions are shown without attribution of causality .
The majority of adverse reactions occurring during the studies were mild and generally did not require discontinuation of therapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * A : Placebo incidence greater than or equal to raloxifene hydrochloride tablets incidence ; B : Less than 2 % incidence and more frequent with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
† Includes only patients with an intact uterus : raloxifene hydrochloride tablets treatment trial ; Treatment Trial : n = 1948 , Placebo , n = 1999 .
‡ Actual terms most frequently referred to endometrial fluid .
Breast Pain — Across all placebo - controlled trials , raloxifene was indistinguishable from placebo with regard to frequency and severity of breast pain and tenderness .
Raloxifene was associated with less breast pain and tenderness than reported by women receiving estrogens with or without added progestin .
Gynecologic Cancer — Raloxifene - treated and placebo - treated groups had similar incidences of endometrial cancer and ovarian cancer .
Placebo - Controlled Trial of Postmenopausal Women at Increased Risk for Major Coronary Events — The safety of raloxifene ( 60 mg once daily ) was assessed in a placebo - controlled multinational trial of 10 , 101 postmenopausal women ( age range 55 to 92 ) with documented coronary heart disease ( CHD ) or multiple CHD risk factors .
Median study drug exposure was 5 . 1 years .
Therapy was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 25 % of 5044 raloxifene - treated women and 24 % of 5057 placebo - treated women .
The incidence per year of all - cause mortality was similar between the raloxifene ( 2 . 07 % ) and placebo ( 2 . 25 % ) groups .
Adverse reactions reported more frequently in raloxifene - treated women than in placebo - treated women included peripheral edema ( 14 . 1 % raloxifene versus 11 . 7 % placebo ) , muscle spasms / leg cramps ( 12 . 1 % raloxifene versus 8 . 3 % placebo ) , hot flashes ( 7 . 8 % raloxifene versus 4 . 7 % placebo ) venous thromboembolic events ( 2 . 0 % raloxifene versus 1 . 4 % placebo ) , and cholelithiasis ( 3 . 3 % raloxifene versus 2 . 6 % placebo ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 5 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions reported very rarely since market introduction include retinal vein occlusion , stroke , and death associated with venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cholestyramine : User with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets is not recommended .
Reduces the absorption and enterohepatic cycling of raloxifene .
( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Warfarin : Monitor prothrombin time when starting or stopping Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
( 7 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) • Highly Protein - Bound Drugs : Use with Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets with caution .
Highly protein - bound drugs include diazepam , diazoxide , and lidocaine .
Raloxifene hydrochloride is more than 95 % bound to plasma proteins .
( 7 . 3 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Cholestyramine Concomitant administration of cholestyramine with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets is not recommended .
Although not specifically studied , it is anticipated that other anion exchange resins would have a similar effect .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be co - administered with other anion exchange resins [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Warfarin If raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are given concomitantly with warfarin or other warfarin derivatives , prothrombin time should be monitored more closely when starting or stopping therapy with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Other Highly Protein - Bound Drugs Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution with certain other highly protein - bound drugs such as diazepam , diazoxide , and lidocaine .
Although not examined , raloxifene hydrochloride tablets might affect the protein binding of other drugs .
Raloxifene is more than 95 % bound to plasma proteins [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Systemic Estrogens The safety of concomitant use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets with systemic estrogens has not been established and its use is not recommended .
7 . 5 Other Concomitant Medications Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets can be concomitantly administered with ampicillin , amoxicillin , antacids , corticosteroids , and digoxin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The concomitant use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and lipid - lowering agents has not been studied .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness not established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category X . Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be used by lactating women [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when raloxifene is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in placebo - controlled clinical studies of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , 61 % were 65 and over , while 15 . 5 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Based on clinical trials , there is no need for dose adjustment for geriatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In an 8 - week study of 63 postmenopausal women , a dose of raloxifene HCl 600 mg / day was safely tolerated .
In clinical trials , no raloxifene overdose has been reported .
In postmarketing spontaneous reports , raloxifene overdose has been reported very rarely ( less than 1 out of 10 , 000 [ < 0 . 01 % ] patients treated ) .
The highest overdose has been approximately 1 . 5 grams .
No fatalities associated with raloxifene overdose have been reported .
Adverse reactions were reported in approximately half of the adults who took ≥ 180 mg raloxifene and included leg cramps and dizziness .
Two 18 - month - old children each ingested raloxifene 180 mg .
In these two children , symptoms reported included ataxia , dizziness , vomiting , rash , diarrhea , tremor , and flushing , as well as elevation in alkaline phosphatase .
There is no specific antidote for raloxifene .
No mortality was seen after a single oral dose in rats or mice at 5000 mg / kg ( 810 times the human dose for rats and 405 times the human dose for mice based on surface area , mg / m2 ) or in monkeys at 1000 mg / kg ( 80 times the AUC in humans ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Raloxifene hydrochloride , USP is an estrogen agonist / antagonist , commonly referred to as a selective estrogen receptor modulator ( SERM ) that belongs to the benzothiophene class of compounds .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical designation is methanone , [ 6 - hydroxy - 2 - ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) benzo [ b ] thien - 3 - yl ] - [ 4 - [ 2 - ( 1 - piperidinyl ) ethoxy ] phenyl ] - , hydrochloride .
Raloxifene hydrochloride ( HCl ) has the empirical formula C28H27NO4S • HCl , which corresponds to a molecular weight of 510 . 05 .
Raloxifene HCl , USP is an off - white to pale - yellow solid that is very slightly soluble in water .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , USP are supplied in a tablet dosage form for oral administration .
Each raloxifene hydrochloride tablet contains 60 mg of raloxifene HCl , USP which is the molar equivalent of 55 . 71 mg of free base .
Inactive ingredients include mannitol , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl cellulose , poloxamer 407 , magnesium stearate and opadry white ( titanium Dioxide , hypromellose 2910 ( 3 cP ) , hypromellose 2910 ( 6 cP ) , macrogol / PEG 400 and polysorbate 80 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Raloxifene is an estrogen agonist / antagonist , commonly referred to as a selective estrogen receptor modulator ( SERM ) .
The biological actions of raloxifene are largely mediated through binding to estrogen receptors .
This binding results in activation of estrogenic pathways in some tissues ( agonism ) and blockade of estrogenic pathways in others ( antagonism ) .
The agonistic or antagonistic action of raloxifene depends on the extent of recruitment of coactivators and corepressors to estrogen receptor ( ER ) target gene promotors .
Raloxifene appears to act as an estrogen agonist in bone .
It decreases bone resorption and bone turnover , increases bone mineral density ( BMD ) and decreases fracture incidence .
Preclinical data demonstrate that raloxifene is an estrogen antagonist in uterine and breast tissues .
These results are consistent with findings in clinical trials , which suggest that raloxifene hydrochloride lacks estrogen - like effects on the uterus and breast tissue .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Decreases in estrogen levels after oophorectomy or menopause lead to increases in bone resorption and accelerated bone loss .
Bone is initially lost rapidly because the compensatory increase in bone formation is inadequate to offset resorptive losses .
In addition to loss of estrogen , this imbalance between resorption and formation may be due to age - related impairment of osteoblasts or their precursors .
In some women , these changes will eventually lead to decreased bone mass , osteoporosis , and increased risk for fractures , particularly of the spine , hip , and wrist .
Vertebral fractures are the most common type of osteoporotic fracture in postmenopausal women .
In a osteoporosis treatment trial , raloxifene hydrochloride tablets therapy resulted in consistent , statistically significant suppression of bone resorption and bone formation , as reflected by changes in serum and urine markers of bone turnover ( e . g . , bone - specific alkaline phosphatase , osteocalcin , and collagen breakdown products ) .
The suppression of bone turnover markers was evident by 3 months and persisted throughout the 36 - month and 24 - month observation periods .
In a 31 - week , open - label , radiocalcium kinetics study , 33 early postmenopausal women were randomized to treatment with once - daily raloxifene hydrochloride tablets 60 mg , cyclic estrogen / progestin ( 0 . 625 mg conjugated estrogens daily with 5 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate daily for the first 2 weeks of each month [ hormone therapy ] ) , or no treatment .
Treatment with either raloxifene hydrochloride tablets or hormone therapy was associated with reduced bone resorption and a positive shift in calcium balance ( - 82 mg Ca / day and + 60 mg Ca / day , respectively , for raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and – 162 mg Ca / day and + 91 mg Ca / day , respectively , for hormone therapy ) .
There were small decreases in serum total calcium , inorganic phosphate , total protein , and albumin , which were generally of lesser magnitude than decreases observed during estrogen or hormone therapy .
Platelet count was also decreased slightly and was not different from estrogen therapy .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The disposition of raloxifene has been evaluated in more than 3000 postmenopausal women in selected raloxifene osteoporosis treatment trial using a population approach .
Pharmacokinetic data also were obtained in conventional pharmacology studies in 292 postmenopausal women .
Raloxifene exhibits high within - subject variability ( approximately 30 % coefficient of variation ) of most pharmacokinetic parameters .
Table 3 summarizes the pharmacokinetic parameters of raloxifene .
Absorption Raloxifene is absorbed rapidly after oral administration .
Approximately 60 % of an oral dose is absorbed , but presystemic glucuronide conjugation is extensive .
Absolute bioavailability of raloxifene is 2 % .
The time to reach average maximum plasma concentration and bioavailability are functions of systemic interconversion and enterohepatic cycling of raloxifene and its glucuronide metabolites .
Administration of raloxifene HCl with a standardized , high - fat meal increases the absorption of raloxifene ( Cmax 28 % and AUC 16 % ) , but does not lead to clinically meaningful changes in systemic exposure .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets can be administered without regard to meals .
Distribution Following oral administration of single doses ranging from 30 to 150 mg of raloxifene HCl , the apparent volume of distribution is 2348 L / kg and is not dose dependent .
Raloxifene and the monoglucuronide conjugates are highly ( 95 % ) bound to plasma proteins .
Raloxifene binds to both albumin and 1 - acid glycoprotein , but not to sex - steroid binding globulin .
Metabolism Biotransformation and disposition of raloxifene in humans have been determined following oral administration of 14 C - labeled raloxifene .
Raloxifene undergoes extensive first - pass metabolism to the glucuronide conjugates : raloxifene - 4 ´ - glucuronide , raloxifene - 6 - glucuronide , and raloxifene - 6 , 4 ´ - diglucuronide .
No other metabolites have been detected , providing strong evidence that raloxifene is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 pathways .
Unconjugated raloxifene comprises less than 1 % of the total radiolabeled material in plasma .
The terminal log - linear portions of the plasma concentration curves for raloxifene and the glucuronides are generally parallel .
This is consistent with interconversion of raloxifene and the glucuronide metabolites .
Following intravenous administration , raloxifene is cleared at a rate approximating hepatic blood flow .
Apparent oral clearance is 44 . 1 L / kghr .
Raloxifene and its glucuronide conjugates are interconverted by reversible systemic metabolism and enterohepatic cycling , thereby prolonging its plasma elimination half - life to 27 . 7 hours after oral dosing .
Results from single oral doses of raloxifene predict multiple - dose pharmacokinetics .
Following chronic dosing , clearance ranges from 40 to 60 L / kghr .
Increasing doses of raloxifene HCl ( ranging from 30 to 150 mg ) result in slightly less than a proportional increase in the area under the plasma time concentration curve ( AUC ) .
Excretion Raloxifene is primarily excreted in feces , and less than 0 . 2 % is excreted unchanged in urine .
Less than 6 % of the raloxifene dose is eliminated in urine as glucuronide conjugates .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * Abbreviations : Cmax = maximum plasma concentration , t1 / 2 = half - life , AUC = area under the curve , CL = clearance , V = volume of distribution , F = bioavailability , CV = coefficient of variation .
Data normalized for dose in mg and body weight in kg .
Range of observed halflife Special Populations Pediatric - The pharmacokinetics of raloxifene has not been evaluated in a pediatric population [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Geriatric - No differences in raloxifene pharmacokinetics were detected with regard to age ( range 42 to 84 years ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Gender - Total extent of exposure and oral clearance , normalized for lean body weight , are not significantly different between age - matched female and male volunteers .
Race - Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have been studied in 1712 women , including 97 . 5 % White , 1 . 0 % Asian , 0 . 7 % Hispanic , and 0 . 5 % Black in a osteoporosis treatment trial .
There were no discernible differences in raloxifene plasma concentrations among these groups ; however , the influence of race cannot be conclusively determined .
Renal Impairment - In a osteoporosis treatment trial , raloxifene concentrations in women with mild renal impairment are similar to women with normal creatinine clearance .
When a single dose of 120 mg raloxifene HCl was administered to 10 renally impaired males [ 7 moderate impairment ( CrCl = 31 50 mL / min ) ; 3 severe impairment ( CrCl 30 mL / min ) ] and to 10 healthy males ( CrCl > 80 mL / min ) , plasma raloxifene concentrations were 122 % ( AUC0 - ) higher in renally impaired patients than those of healthy volunteers .
Raloxifene should be used with caution in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment - The disposition of raloxifene was compared in 9 patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A ) hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ranging from 0 . 6 to 2 mg / dL ) to 8 subjects with normal hepatic function following a single dose of 60 mg raloxifene HCl .
Apparent clearance of raloxifene was reduced 56 % and the half - life of raloxifene was not altered in patients with mild hepatic impairment .
Plasma raloxifene concentrations were approximately 150 % higher than those in healthy volunteers and correlated with total bilirubin concentrations .
The pharmacokinetics of raloxifene has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
Raloxifene should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Cholestyramine Cholestyramine , an anion exchange resin , causes a 60 % reduction in the absorption and enterohepatic cycling of raloxifene after a single dose .
Although not specifically studied , it is anticipated that other anion exchange resins would have a similar effect [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Warfarin In vitro , raloxifene did not interact with the binding of warfarin .
The concomitant administration of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and warfarin , a coumarin derivative , has been assessed in a single - dose study .
In this study , raloxifene had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin .
However , a 10 % decrease in prothrombin time was observed in a single - dose study .
In a osteoporosis treatment trial , there were no clinically relevant effects of warfarin co - administration on plasma concentrations of raloxifene [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Other Highly Protein - Bound Drugs In a osteoporosis treatment trial , there were no clinically relevant effects of co - administration of other highly protein - bound drugs ( e . g . , gemfibrozil ) on plasma concentrations of raloxifene .
In vitro , raloxifene did not interact with the binding of phenytoin , tamoxifen , or warfarin ( see above ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Ampicillin and Amoxicillin Peak concentrations of raloxifene and the overall extent of absorption are reduced 28 % and 14 % , respectively , with co - administration of ampicillin .
These reductions are consistent with decreased enterohepatic cycling associated with antibiotic reduction of enteric bacteria .
However , the systemic exposure and the elimination rate of raloxifene were not affected .
In a osteoporosis treatment trial , co - administration of amoxicillin had no discernible differences in plasma raloxifene concentrations [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Antacids Concomitant administration of calcium carbonate or aluminum and magnesium hydroxide - containing antacids does not affect the systemic exposure of raloxifene [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Corticosteroids The chronic administration of raloxifene in postmenopausal women has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of methylprednisolone given as a single oral dose [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Digoxin Raloxifene has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets with cyclosporine has not been studied .
Lipid - Lowering Agents Concomitant administration of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets with lipid - lowering agents has not been studied .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis — In a 21 - month carcinogenicity study in mice , there was an increased incidence of ovarian tumors in female animals given 9 to 242 mg / kg , which included benign and malignant tumors of granulosa / theca cell origin and benign tumors of epithelial cell origin .
Systemic exposure ( AUC ) of raloxifene in this group was 0 . 3 to 34 times that in postmenopausal women administered a 60 mg dose .
There was also an increased incidence of testicular interstitial cell tumors and prostatic adenomas and adenocarcinomas in male mice given 41 or 210 mg / kg ( 4 . 7 or 24 times the AUC in humans ) and prostatic leiomyoblastoma in male mice given 210 mg / kg .
In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in rats , an increased incidence in ovarian tumors of granulosa / theca cell origin was observed in female rats given 279 mg / kg ( approximately 400 times the AUC in humans ) .
The female rodents in these studies were treated during their reproductive lives when their ovaries were functional and responsive to hormonal stimulation .
Mutagenesis — Raloxifene HCl was not genotoxic in any of the following test systems : the Ames test for bacterial mutagenesis with and without metabolic activation , the unscheduled DNA synthesis assay in rat hepatocytes , the mouse lymphoma assay for mammalian cell mutation , the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells , the in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay in Chinese hamsters , and the in vivo micronucleus test in mice .
Impairment of Fertility — When male and female rats were given daily doses ≥ 5 mg / kg ( ≥ 0 . 8 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) prior to and during mating , no pregnancies occurred .
In male rats , daily doses up to 100 mg / kg ( 16 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) for at least 2 weeks did not affect sperm production or quality or reproductive performance .
In female rats , at doses of 0 . 1 to 10 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 02 to 1 . 6 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) , raloxifene disrupted estrous cycles and inhibited ovulation .
These effects of raloxifene were reversible .
In another study in rats in which raloxifene was given during the preimplantation period at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg ( ≥ 0 . 02 times the human dose based on surface area , mg / m2 ) , raloxifene delayed and disrupted embryo implantation , resulting in prolonged gestation and reduced litter size .
The reproductive and developmental effects observed in animals are consistent with the estrogen receptor activity of raloxifene .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology The skeletal effects of raloxifene treatment were assessed in ovariectomized rats and monkeys .
In rats , raloxifene prevented increased bone resorption and bone loss after ovariectomy .
There were positive effects of raloxifene on bone strength , but the effects varied with time .
Cynomolgus monkeys were treated with raloxifene or conjugated estrogens for 2 years .
In terms of bone cycles , this is equivalent to approximately 6 years in humans .
Raloxifene and estrogen suppressed bone turnover and increased BMD in the lumbar spine and in the central cancellous bone of the proximal tibia .
In this animal model , there was a positive correlation between vertebral compressive breaking force and BMD of the lumbar spine .
Histologic examination of bone from rats and monkeys treated with raloxifene showed no evidence of woven bone , marrow fibrosis , or mineralization defects .
These results are consistent with data from human studies of radiocalcium kinetics and markers of bone metabolism , and are consistent with the action of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets as a skeletal antiresorptive agent .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Effect on Fracture Incidence The effects of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets on fracture incidence and BMD in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis were examined at 3 years in a large randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , multinational osteoporosis treatment trial .
All vertebral fractures were diagnosed radiographically ; some of these fractures also were associated with symptoms ( i . e . , clinical fractures ) .
The study population consisted of 7705 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis as defined by : a ) low BMD ( vertebral or hip BMD at least 2 . 5 standard deviations below the mean value for healthy young women ) without baseline vertebral fractures or b ) one or more baseline vertebral fractures .
Women enrolled in this study had a median age of 67 years ( range 31 to 80 ) and a median time since menopause of 19 years .
Effect on Bone Mineral Density Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , 60 mg administered once daily , increased spine and hip BMD by 2 to 3 % .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets decreased the incidence of the first vertebral fracture from 4 . 3 % for placebo to 1 . 9 % for raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ( relative risk reduction = 55 % ) and subsequent vertebral fractures from 20 . 2 % for placebo to 14 . 1 % for raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ( relative risk reduction = 30 % ) ( see Table 4 ) .
All women in a study received calcium ( 500 mg / day ) and vitamin D ( 400 to 600 IU / day ) .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets reduced the incidence of vertebral fractures whether or not patients had a vertebral fracture upon study entry .
The decrease in incidence of vertebral fracture was greater than could be accounted for by increase in BMD alone .
Table 3 : Effect of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets on Risk of Vertebral Fractures [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Includes all patients with baseline and at least one follow - up radiograph .
The mean percentage change in BMD from baseline for raloxifene hydrochloride tablets was statistically significantly greater than for placebo at each skeletal site ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - ( 60 mg Once Daily ) Related Increases in BMD * for the Osteoporosis Treatment Study Expressed as Mean Percentage Increase vs . Placebo † , ‡ [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Note : all BMD increases were significant ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
† Intent - to - treat analysis ; last observation carried forward .
‡ All patients received calcium and vitamin D . § ND = not done ( total body and radius BMD were measured only at 24 months ) .
Discontinuation from the study was required when excessive bone loss or multiple incident vertebral fractures occurred .
Such discontinuation was statistically significantly more frequent in the placebo group ( 3 . 7 % ) than in the raloxifene hydrochloride tablets group ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Bone Histology Bone biopsies for qualitative and quantitative histomorphometry were obtained at baseline and after 2 years of treatment .
There were 56 paired biopsies evaluable for all indices .
In raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated patients , there were statistically significant decreases in bone formation rate per tissue volume , consistent with a reduction in bone turnover .
Normal bone quality was maintained ; specifically , there was no evidence of osteomalacia , marrow fibrosis , cellular toxicity , or woven bone after 2 years of treatment .
Effect on Endometrium Endometrial thickness was evaluated annually in a subset of the study population ( 1781 patients ) for 3 years .
Placebo - treated women had a 0 . 27 mm mean decrease from baseline in endometrial thickness over 3 years , whereas the raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women had a 0 . 06 mm mean increase .
Patients in a osteoporosis treatment study were not screened at baseline or excluded for pre - existing endometrial or uterine disease .
This study was not specifically designed to detect endometrial polyps .
Over the 36 months of the study , clinically or histologically benign endometrial polyps were reported in 17 of 1999 placebo - treated women , 37 of 1948 raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women , and in 31 of 2010 women treated with raloxifene HCl 120 mg / day .
There was no difference between raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - and placebo - treated women in the incidences of endometrial carcinoma , vaginal bleeding , or vaginal discharge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 5 Effects on Cardiovascular Disease In a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , multinational clinical trial of 10 , 101 postmenopausal women with documented coronary heart disease or at increased risk for coronary events , no cardiovascular benefit was demonstrated after treatment with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets 60 mg once daily for a median follow - up of 5 . 6 years .
No significant increase or decrease was observed for coronary events ( death from coronary causes , nonfatal myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome ) .
An increased risk of death due to stroke after treatment with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets was observed : 59 ( 1 . 2 % ) raloxifene hydrochloride tablets - treated women died due to a stroke compared to 39 ( 0 . 8 % ) placebo - treated women ( 2 . 2 versus 1 . 5 per 1000 women - years ; hazard ratio 1 . 49 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1 . 00 - 2 . 24 ; p = 0 . 0499 ) .
The incidence of stroke did not differ significantly between treatment groups ( 249 with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets [ 4 . 9 % ] versus 224 with placebo [ 4 . 4 % ] ; hazard ratio 1 . 10 ; 95 % confidence interval 0 . 92 - 1 . 32 ; p = 0 . 30 ; 9 . 5 versus 8 . 6 per 1000 women - years ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , USP 60 mg are white film coated round biconvex , de - bossed with IG on one side and 256 on the other , Supplied in bottles of 30 ( NDC 31722 - 256 - 30 ) , bottle of 100 ( 31722 - 256 - 01 ) and bottle of 1000 ( NDC 31722 - 256 - 10 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at controlled room temperature , 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room temperature ] .
The USP defines controlled room temperature as a temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25ºC ; and that allows for excursions between 15º and 30ºC ( 59º and 86ºF ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Medication Guide .
Physicians should instruct their patients to read the Medication Guide before starting therapy with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and to reread it each time the prescription is renewed .
17 . 1 Osteoporosis Recommendations , Including Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation For osteoporosis treatment , patients should be instructed to take supplemental calcium and / or vitamin D if intake is inadequate .
Patients at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency ( e . g . , over the age of 70 years , nursing home bound , chronically ill , or with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes ) should be instructed to take additional vitamin D if needed .
Weight - bearing exercises should be considered along with the modification of certain behavioral factors , such as cigarette smoking and / or excessive alcohol consumption , if these factors exist .
17 . 2 Patient Immobilization Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued at least 72 hours prior to and during prolonged immobilization ( e . g . , post - surgical recovery , prolonged bed rest ) , and patients should be advised to avoid prolonged restrictions of movement during travel because of the increased risk of venous thromboembolic events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Hot Flashes or Flushes Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets may increase the incidence of hot flashes and is not effective in reducing hot flashes or flushes associated with estrogen deficiency .
In some asymptomatic patients , hot flashes may occur upon beginning raloxifene hydrochloride tablets therapy .
Rev : 09 / 14 Medication Guide Raloxifene Hydrochloride Tablets , USP for Oral Use Read the Medication Guide that comes with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets before you start taking it and each time you refill your prescription .
The information may have changed .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Talk with your doctor about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets when you start taking it and at regular checkups .
What is the most important information I should know about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
Serious and life - threatening side effects can occur while taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
These include blood clots and dying from stroke : • Increased risk of blood clots in the legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) and lungs ( pulmonary embolism ) have been reported with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Women who have or have had blood clots in the legs , lungs , or eyes should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
• Women who have had a heart attack or are at risk for a heart attack may have an increased risk of dying from stroke when taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
• Before starting raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , tell your doctor if you have had blood clots in your legs , lungs , or eyes , a stroke , mini - stroke ( transient ischemic attack ) , or have an irregular heartbeat .
• Stop taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and call your doctor if you have : • leg pain or a feeling of warmth in the lower leg ( calf ) .
• swelling of the legs , hands , or feet .
• sudden chest pain , shortness of breath , or coughing up blood .
• sudden change in your vision , such as loss of vision or blurred vision .
3 .
Being still for a long time ( such as sitting still during a long car or airplane trip or being in bed after surgery ) can increase your risk of blood clots .
( See “ What should I avoid if I am taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ? ” )
What is raloxifene hydrochloride ?
Raloxifene hydrochloride is a type of prescription medicine called a Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator ( SERM ) .
Raloxifene hydrochloride is for women after menopause , and has more than one use : • Osteoporosis : Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets treat osteoporosis by helping make your bones stronger and less likely to break .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are not for use in premenopausal women ( women who have not passed menopause ) .
Who should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
Do not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets if you : • have or have had blood clots in your legs , lungs , or eyes .
Taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk of getting blood clots .
• are pregnant or could become pregnant .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets could harm your unborn child .
• are nursing a baby .
It is not known if raloxifene hydrochloride tablets passes into breast milk or what effect it might have on the baby .
What should I tell my doctor before taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets may not be right for you .
Before taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have had blood clots in your legs , lungs , or eyes , a stroke , mini - stroke ( TIA / transient ischemic attack ) , or a type of irregular heartbeat ( atrial fibrillation ) .
• have had breast cancer .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets have not been fully studied in women who have a history of breast cancer .
• have liver or kidney problems .
• have taken estrogen in the past and had a high increase of triglycerides ( a kind of fat in the blood ) .
• are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breast - feeding ( see “ Who should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ? ” )
.
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
Especially tell your doctor if you take * : • warfarin ( Coumadin ® , Jantoven ® ) If you are taking warfarin or other coumarin blood thinners , your doctor may need to do a blood test when you first start or if you need to stop taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Names for this test include “ prothrombin time , ” “ pro - time , ” or “ INR . ”
Your doctor may need to adjust the dose of your warfarin or other coumarin blood thinner .
• cholestyramine • estrogens Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not be taken with cholestyramine or estrogens .
How should I take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
• Take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets exactly how your doctor tells you to .
• Keep taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets for as long as your doctor prescribes it for you .
• It is important to get your refills on time so you do not run out of the medicine .
• Take one raloxifene hydrochloride tablet each day .
• Take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets at any time of the day , with or without food .
• To help you remember to take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , it may be best to take it at about the same time each day .
• Calcium and vitamin D may be taken at the same time as raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
It is important to take calcium and vitamin D , as directed by your physician to treat osteoporosis .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
However , if it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and take only your next regularly scheduled dose .
Do not take two doses at the same time .
What should I avoid while taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
• Being still for a long time ( such as during long trips or being in bed after surgery ) can increase the risk of blood clots .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets may add to this risk .
If you will need to be still for a long time , talk with your doctor about ways to reduce the risk of blood clots .
On long trips , move around periodically .
Stop taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets at least 3 days before a planned surgery or before you plan on being still for a long time .
You should start taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets again when you return to your normal activities .
• Some medicines should not be taken with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ( see “ What should I tell my doctor before taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ? ” )
.
What are the possible side effects of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
Serious and life - threatening side effects can occur while taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
These include blood clots and dying from stroke : • Increased risk of blood clots in the legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) and lungs ( pulmonary embolism ) have been reported with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Women who have or have had blood clots in the legs , lungs , or eyes should not take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
• Women who have had a heart attack or are at risk for a heart attack may have an increased risk of dying from stroke when taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ? ”
The most common side effects of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are hot flashes , leg cramps , swelling of the feet , ankles , and legs , flu syndrome , joint pain , and sweating .
Hot flashes are more common during the first 6 months after starting treatment .
These are not all the side effects of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Tell your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
If you have any problems or questions that concern you while taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 866 - 495 - 8330 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
• Do not use raloxifene hydrochloride tablets to prevent heart disease , heart attack , or strokes .
• To get the calcium and vitamin D you need , your doctor may advise you to change your diet and / or take supplemental calcium and vitamin D . Your doctor may suggest other ways to help treat osteoporosis , in addition to taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and getting the calcium and vitamin D you need .
These may include regular exercise , stopping smoking , and drinking less alcohol .
• Women who have hot flashes can take raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets do not treat hot flashes , and it may cause hot flashes in some women .
( See “ What are the possible side effects of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ? ” )
• Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets have not been found to cause breast tenderness or enlargement .
If you notice any changes in your breasts , call your doctor to find out the cause .
Before starting and while taking raloxifene hydrochloride tablets you should have breast exams and mammograms , as directed by your doctor .
• Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should not cause spotting or menstrual - type bleeding .
If you have any vaginal bleeding , call your doctor to find out the cause .
Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets have not been found to increase the risk for cancer of the lining of the uterus .
• Women in clinical trials have taken raloxifene hydrochloride tablets for up to eight years .
How should I store raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
• Store raloxifene hydrochloride tablets at controlled room temperature , 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP ] .
• Keep raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use raloxifene hydrochloride tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your raloxifene hydrochloride tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide is a summary of the most important information about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets .
If you would like more information about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about raloxifene hydrochloride tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in raloxifene hydrochloride tablets ?
Active Ingredient : raloxifene hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : mannitol , crospovidone , hydroxypropyl cellulose , poloxamer 407 , magnesium stearate and opadry white ( titanium Dioxide , hypromellose 2910 ( 3 cP ) , hypromellose 2910 ( 6 cP ) , macrogol / PEG 400 and polysorbate 80 ) .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
* All brand names mentioned are trademark of their respective owners and are not of Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Manufactured By : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hauppauge , NY 11788 Manufactured for : Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Piscataway , NJ 08854 Rev : 09 / 14 Barcode : 256 - 09 - 2014 Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets , USP 60 mg - 30 ' s Count Container Label Camber Pharmaceuticals Inc Rev : 07 / 14 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
