Inactive Ingredients : Aqua , Cyclopentasiloxane , Stearyl Dimethicone , Cetyl Dimethicone , Propylene Glycol , Lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Methicone , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Panthenol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Lanthanum Chloride , Magnesium Chloride , Calcium Chloride , Plankton Extract , Glycoproteins , Glycosaminoglycans , Benzyl Alcohol , Fragrance , Chlorphenesin , Benzoic Acid , Sorbic Acid , Dehydroacetic Acid , Tetrasodium EDTA , Sodium Citrate , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Trimethoxycaprylylsilane Active Ingredients : Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Zinc Oxide 5 % Titanium Dioxide 2 % Purpose : Sunscreen Uses : Helps prevent sunburn -- If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warning : - For external use only -- Do not use on damaged or broken skin -- When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove -- Stop sue and ask a doctor if rash occurs -- Keep out of reach of children -- If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure -- reapply .
After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying and at least every 2 hours -- Sun Protection Measures - Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : - Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . -- Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses -- Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Information : Give particular attention to coverage of arms and legs .
- In water infested by Sea Lice , Safe Sea should also be applied under the bathing suit .
- Jellyfish can be dangerous .
This product should not be considered a recommendation to go into jellyfish infested water , nor is it a guarantee against stings .
- In case of sting do not use Safe Sea as a treatment - seek medical attention .
Tested against Sea nettle ( Chrysaora ) Atlantic Box jellyfish ( Chiropsalmus ) and Rhopilema .
Data on file .
- Protect this product form excessive heat and direct sunlight [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
