1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of : ( 1 ) • C . difficile - associated diarrhea • Enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) Important Limitations : ( 1 ) ( 5 . 1 ) • Orally administered vancomycin hydrochloride capsules is not effective for other types of infections .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated for the treatment of C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules is also used for the treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant strains ) .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above infections ; therefore , Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules must be given orally for these infections .
Orally administered Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules is not effective for other types of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules and other antibacterial drugs , Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • C . difficile - associated diarrhea : • Adult Patients ( ≥ 18 years of age ) : 125 mg orally 4 times daily for 10 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Patients ( < 18 years of age ) : 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . ( 2 . 2 ) • Staphylococcal enterocolitis : • Adult Patients ( ≥ 18 years of age ) : 500 mg to 2 g orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Patients ( < 18 years of age ) : 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules are used in treating C . difficile - associated diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis .
• C . difficile - associated diarrhea : The recommended dose is 125 mg administered orally 4 times daily for 10 days .
• Staphylococcal enterocolitis : Total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g administered orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients The usual daily dosage is 40 mg / kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g . 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 125 mg capsules ( 3 ) • 250 mg capsules ( 3 ) Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP 125 mg * CAPSULES have a blue cap and yellow body imprinted with “ OP64 ” on both cap and body in white ink .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP 250 mg * CAPSULES have a blue cap and dark - yellow body imprinted with “ OP65 ” on both cap and body in white ink .
* Equivalent to vancomycin .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to vancomycin ( 4 ) Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules must be given orally for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Orally administered vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are not effective for other types of infections .
( 5 . 1 ) • Clinically significant serum concentrations have been reported in some patients who have taken multiple oral doses of vancomycin hydrochloride capsules for active C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Monitoring of serum concentrations may be appropriate in some instances .
( 5 . 2 ) • Nephrotoxicity has occurred following oral vancomycin hydrochloride capsules therapy and can occur either during or after completion of therapy .
The risk is increased in geriatric patients ( 5 . 3 ) Monitor renal function .
• Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride capsules .
( 5 . 4 ) Assessment of auditory function may be appropriate in some instances .
• Prescribing vancomycin hydrochloride capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug resistant bacteria .
( 5 . 6 ) • The 125 mg strength capsules contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Oral Use Only This preparation for the treatment of colitis is for oral use only and is not systemically absorbed .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules must be given orally for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea .
Orally administered Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules are not effective for other types of infections .
Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for treatment of staphylococcal enterocolitis and C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
If parenteral vancomycin therapy is desired , use an intravenous preparation of vancomycin and consult the package insert accompanying that preparation .
5 . 2 Potential for Systemic Absorption Clinically significant serum concentrations have been reported in some patients who have taken multiple oral doses of Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules for active C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
Some patients with inflammatory disorders of the intestinal mucosa also may have significant systemic absorption of vancomycin .
These patients may be at risk for the development of adverse reactions associated with higher doses of Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules ; therefore , monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be appropriate in some instances , e . g . , in patients with renal insufficiency and / or colitis or in those receiving concomitant therapy with an aminoglycoside antibiotic .
5 . 3 Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) has occurred following oral Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules therapy in randomized controlled clinical studies , and can occur either during or after completion of therapy .
The risk of nephrotoxicity is increased in patients > 65 years of age [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Clinical Trial Experience ( 6 . 1 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS , Geriatric Use ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
5 . 4 Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin .
It may be transient or permanent .
It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive intravenous doses , who have an underlying hearing loss , or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent , such as an aminoglycoside .
Serial tests of auditory function may be helpful in order to minimize the risk of ototoxicity [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Postmarketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Superinfection Use of Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible bacteria .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 6 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug resistant bacteria .
5 . 7 Risk of Allergic Reactions due to Tartrazine The 125 mg strength capsules contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) were nausea ( 17 % ) , abdominal pain ( 15 % ) , and hypokalemia ( 13 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 845 - 8210 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to vancomycin hydrochloride in 260 adult subjects in two Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of diarrhea associated with C . difficile .
In both trials , subjects received vancomycin hydrochloride capsules 125 mg orally four times daily .
The mean duration of treatment was 9 . 4 days .
The median age of patients was 67 , ranging between 19 and 96 years of age .
Patients were predominantly Caucasian ( 93 % ) and 52 % were male .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects are shown in Table 1 .
The most common adverse reactions associated with vancomycin hydrochloride ( ≥ 10 % ) were nausea , abdominal pain , and hypokalemia .
Table 1 : Common ( ≥ 5 % ) Adverse Reactions for Vancomycin Hydrochloride Reported in Clinical Trials for Treatment of Diarrhea Associated with C . difficileSystem / Organ Class Adverse Reaction VancomycinHydrochloride % ( N = 260 ) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 17 Abdominal pain 15 Vomiting 9 Diarrhea 9 Flatulence 8 General disorders and administration Pyrexia 9 site conditions Edema peripheral 6 Fatigue 5 Infections and infestations Urinary tract infection 8 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hypokalemia 13 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 6 Nervous system disorders Headache 7 Nephrotoxicity ( e . g . , reports of renal failure , renal impairment , blood creatinine increased ) occurred in 5 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycin hydrochloride typically first occurred within one week after completion of treatment ( median day of onset was Day 16 ) .
Nephrotoxicity following vancomycin hydrochloride occurred in 6 % of subjects > 65 years of age and 3 % of subjects ≤ 65 years of age [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Nephrotoxicity ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The incidences of hypokalemia , urinary tract infection , peripheral edema , insomnia , constipation , anemia , depression , vomiting , and hypotension were higher among subjects > 65 years of age than in subjects ≤ 65 years of age [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS , Geriatric Use ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Discontinuation of study drug due to adverse events occurred in 7 % of subjects treated with vancomycin hydrochloride .
The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation of vancomycin hydrochloride were C . difficile colitis ( < 1 % ) , nausea ( < 1 % ) , and vomiting ( < 1 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of vancomycin hydrochloride .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Ototoxicity : Cases of hearing loss associated with intravenously administered vancomycin have been reported .
Most of these patients had kidney dysfunction or a preexisting hearing loss or were receiving concomitant treatment with an ototoxic drug [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Ototoxicity ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Vertigo , dizziness , and tinnitus have been reported .
Hematopoietic : Reversible neutropenia , usually starting 1 week or more after onset of intravenous therapy with vancomycin or after a total dose of more than 25 g , has been reported for several dozen patients .
Neutropenia appears to be promptly reversible when vancomycin is discontinued .
Thrombocytopenia has been reported .
Miscellaneous : Patients have been reported to have had anaphylaxis , drug fever , chills , nausea , eosinophilia , rashes ( including exfoliative dermatitis ) , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and rare cases of vasculitis in association with the administration of vancomycin .
A condition has been reported that is similar to the IV – induced syndrome with symptoms consistent with anaphylactoid reactions , including hypotension , wheezing , dyspnea , urticaria , pruritus , flushing of the upper body ( " Red Man Syndrome " ) , pain and muscle spasm of the chest and back .
These reactions usually resolve within 20 minutes but may persist for several hours .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted .
( 7 ) No drug interaction studies have been conducted .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatrics : Safety and effectiveness in patients < 18 years of age have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatrics : In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride capsules to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity .
( 5 . 3 ) ( 6 . 1 ) ( 8 . 5 ) ( 14 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B – The highest doses of vancomycin tested were not teratogenic in rats given up to 200 mg / kg / day IV ( 1180 mg / m 2 or 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) or in rabbits given up to 120 mg / kg / day IV ( 1320 mg / m 2 or 1 . 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based body surface area ) .
No effects on fetal weight or development were seen in rats at the highest dose tested or in rabbits given 80 mg / kg / day ( 880 mg / m 2 or 0 . 74 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) .
In a controlled clinical study , the potential ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects of vancomycin on infants were evaluated when the drug was administered intravenously to pregnant women for serious staphylococcal infections complicating intravenous drug abuse .
Vancomycin was found in cord blood .
No sensorineural hearing loss or nephrotoxicity attributable to vancomycin was noted .
One infant whose mother received vancomycin in the third trimester experienced conductive hearing loss that was not attributed to the administration of vancomycin .
Because the number of subjects treated in this study was limited and vancomycin was administered only in the second and third trimesters , it is not known whether vancomycin causes fetal harm .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , vancomycin hydrochloride capsules should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Vancomycin is excreted in human milk based on information obtained with the intravenous administration of vancomycin .
However , systemic absorption of vancomycin is very low following oral administration of vancomycin hydrochloride capsules [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
It is not known whether vancomycin is excreted in human milk , as no studies of vancomycin concentration in human milk after oral administration have been done .
Caution should be exercised when vancomycin hydrochloride capsules is administered to a nursing woman .
Because of the potential for adverse events , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials , 54 % of vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects were > 65 years of age .
Of these , 40 % were between the ages of > 65 and 75 , and 60 % were > 75 years of age .
Clinical studies with vancomycin hydrochloride in diarrhea associated with Clostridium difficile have demonstrated that geriatric subjects are at increased risk of developing nephrotoxicity following treatment with oral vancomycin hydrochloride , which may occur during or after completion of therapy .
In patients > 65 years of age , including those with normal renal function prior to treatment , renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , Nephrotoxicity ( 5 . 3 ) ; ADVERSE REACTIONS , Clinical Trial Experience ( 6 . 1 ) and CLINICAL STUDIES , Diarrhea Associated with Clostridium difficile ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Patients > 65 years of age may take longer to respond to therapy compared to patients ≤ 65 years of age [ see CLINICAL STUDIES , Diarrhea Associated with Clostridium difficile ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Clinicians should be aware of the importance of appropriate duration of vancomycin hydrochloride treatment in patients > 65 years of age and not discontinue or switch to alternative treatment prematurely .
10 OVERDOSAGE Supportive care is advised , with maintenance of glomerular filtration .
Vancomycin is poorly removed by dialysis .
Hemofiltration and hemoperfusion with polysulfone resin have been reported to result in increased vancomycin clearance .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics .
11 DESCRIPTION Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP for oral administration contain chromatographically purified vancomycin hydrochloride , a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic derived from Amycolatopsis orientalis ( formerly Nocardia orientalis ) , which has the chemical formula C 66 H 75 Cl 2 N 9 O 24 • HCl .
The molecular weight of vancomycin hydrochloride is 1485 . 73 ; 500 mg of the base is equivalent to 0 . 34 mmol .
The 125 mg capsules contain vancomycin hydrochloride equivalent to 125 mg ( 0 . 08 mmol ) vancomycin .
These capsules also contain polyethylene glycol 6000 , FD & C Yellow No . 5 , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 , sodium lauryl sulfate and gelatin .
The 250 mg capsules contain vancomycin hydrochloride equivalent to 250 mg ( 0 . 17 mmol ) vancomycin .
These capsules also contain polyethylene glycol 6000 , yellow iron oxide , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 , sodium lauryl sulfate , gelatin .
Both 125 mg and 250 mg capsules are imprinted with ink which may contain titanium dioxide , carnauba wax , white shellac , glyceryl monooleate .
Vancomycin hydrochloride has the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vancomycin is an antibacterial drug [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Vancomycin is poorly absorbed after oral administration .
During multiple dosing of 250 mg every 8 hours for 7 doses , fecal concentrations of vancomycin in volunteers exceeded 100 mg / kg in the majority of samples .
No blood concentrations were detected and urinary recovery did not exceed 0 . 76 % .
In anephric subjects with no inflammatory bowel disease who received vancomycin oral solution 2 g for 16 days , blood concentrations of vancomycin were less than or equal to 0 . 66 μg / mL in 2 of 5 subjects .
No measurable blood concentrations were attained in the other 3 subjects .
Following doses of 2 g daily , concentrations of drug were > 3100 mg / kg in the feces and < 1 μg / mL in the serum of subjects with normal renal function who had C . difficile - associated diarrhea .
After multiple - dose oral administration of vancomycin , measurable serum concentrations may occur in patients with active C . difficile - associated diarrhea , and , in the presence of renal impairment , the possibility of accumulation exists .
It should be noted that the total systemic and renal clearances of vancomycin are reduced in the elderly [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS , Geriatric Use ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action The bactericidal action of vancomycin against Staphylococcus aureus and the vegetative cells of Clostridium difficile results primarily from inhibition of cell - wall biosynthesis .
In addition , vancomycin alters bacterial - cell - membrane permeability and RNA synthesis .
Mechanism of resistance Staphylococcus aureus : S . aureus isolates with vancomycin minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) as high as 1024 mcg / mL have been reported .
The exact mechanism of this resistance is not clear but is believed to be due to cell wall thickening and potentially the transfer of genetic material .
Clostridium difficile : Isolates of C . difficile generally have vancomycin MICs of < 1 mcg / mL , however vancomycin MICs ranging from 4 mcg / mL to 16 mcg / mL have been reported .
The mechanism which mediates C . difficile ' s decreased susceptibility to vancomycin has not been fully elucidated .
Vancomycin has been shown to be active against susceptible isolates of the following bacteria in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Gram - positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin - resistant isolates ) associated with enterocolitis Anaerobic Gram - positive bacteria Clostridium difficile isolates associated with C . difficile associated diarrhea .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term carcinogenesis studies in animals have been conducted .
At concentrations up to 1000 μg / mL , vancomycin had no mutagenic effect in vitro in the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay or the primary rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis assay .
The concentrations tested in vitro were above the peak plasma vancomycin concentrations of 20 to 40 μg / mL usually achieved in humans after slow infusion of the maximum recommended dose of 1 g . Vancomycin had no mutagenic effect in vivo in the Chinese hamster sister chromatid exchange assay ( 400 mg / kg IP ) or the mouse micronucleus assay ( 800 mg / kg IP ) .
No definitive fertility studies have been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Diarrhea Associated With Clostridium Difficile In two trials , Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules 125 mg orally four times daily for 10 days was evaluated in 266 adult subjects with C . difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) .
Enrolled subjects were 18 years of age or older and received no more than 48 hours of treatment with oral vancomycin hydrochloride or oral / intravenous metronidazole in the 5 days preceding enrollment .
CDAD was defined as ≥ 3 loose or watery bowel movements within the 24 hours preceding enrollment , and the presence of either C . difficile toxin A or B , or pseudomembranes on endoscopy within the 72 hours preceding enrollment .
Subjects with fulminant C . difficile disease , sepsis with hypotension , ileus , peritoneal signs or severe hepatic disease were excluded .
Efficacy analyses were performed on the Full Analysis Set ( FAS ) , which included randomized subjects who received at least one dose of vancomycin hydrochloride and had any post - dosing investigator evaluation data ( N = 259 ; 134 in Trial 1 and 125 in Trial 2 ) .
The demographic profile and baseline CDAD characteristics of enrolled subjects were similar in the two trials .
Vancomycin Hydrochloride - treated subjects had a median age of 67 years , were mainly white ( 93 % ) , and male ( 52 % ) .
CDAD was classified as severe ( defined as 10 or more unformed bowel movements per day or WBC ≥ 15000 / mm 3 ) in 25 % of subjects , and 47 % were previously treated for CDAD .
Efficacy was assessed by using clinical success , defined as diarrhea resolution and the absence of severe abdominal discomfort due to CDAD , on Day 10 .
An additional efficacy endpoint was the time to resolution of diarrhea , defined as the beginning of diarrhea resolution that was sustained through the end of the prescribed active treatment period .
The results for clinical success for vancomycin hydrochloride - treated subjects in both trials are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Clinical Success Rates ( Full Analysis Set ) Clinical Success Rate 95 % Confidence Interval Vancomycin Hydrochloride % ( N ) Trial 1 81 . 3 ( 134 ) ( 74 . 4 , 88 . 3 ) Trial 2 80 . 8 ( 125 ) ( 73 . 5 , 88 . 1 ) The median time to resolution of diarrhea was 5 days and 4 days in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
For subjects older than 65 years of age , the median time to resolution was 6 days and 4 days in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
In subjects with diarrhea resolution at end - of - treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride capsules , recurrence of CDAD during the following four weeks occurred in 25 of 107 ( 23 % ) and 18 of 102 ( 18 % ) in Trial 1 and Trial 2 , respectively .
Restriction Endonuclease Analysis ( REA ) was used to identify C . difficile baseline isolates in the BI group .
In Trial 1 , the Vancomycin Hydrochloride - treated subjects were classified at baseline as follows 31 ( 23 % ) with BI strain , 69 ( 52 % ) with non - BI strain , and 34 ( 25 % ) with unknown strain .
Clinical success rates were 87 % for BI strain , 81 % for non - BI strain , and 76 % for unknown strain .
In subjects with diarrhea resolution at end - of treatment with vancomycin hydrochloride , recurrence of CDAD during the following four weeks occurred in 7 of 26 subjects with BI strain , 12 of 56 subjects with non - BI strain , and 6 of 25 subjects with unknown strain .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules , USP are available in : The 125 mg * CAPSULES have a blue cap and yellow body imprinted with " OP64 " on both cap and body in white ink .
The 250 mg * CAPSULES have a blue cap and dark - yellow body imprinted with " OP65 " on both cap and body in white ink .
Strength Pack NDC Number Vancomycin 125 mg A carton contains 2 blister packs .
Each blister pack contains 10 capsules for a total of 20 capsules per carton .
NDC No . 0121 - 0867 - 20 Each bottle contains 50 capsules .
NDC No . 0121 - 0867 - 50 Vancomycin 250 mg A carton contains 2 blister packs .
Each blister pack contains 10 capsules for a total of 20 capsules per carton .
NDC No . 0121 - 0890 - 20 Each bottle contains 50 capsules .
NDC No . 0121 - 0890 - 50 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] * Equivalent to vancomycin .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Vancomycin Hydrochloride should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Vancomycin Hydrochloride is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Vancomycin Hydrochloride or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Manufactured by : Orient Pharma Co . , Ltd .
8 Kehu 1 st Road , Huwei Chen , Yunlin , Taiwan 63247 Product of TaiwanDistributed by : Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
1700 Perimeter Road , Greenville , SC 29605 Rx only To request additional information or if you have questions concerning vancomycin hydrochloride capsules please phone Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 845 - 8210 .
PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP , Equiv .
to 125 mg vancomycin NDC 0121 - 0867 - 50 , Rx Only 50 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP , Equiv .
to 250 mg vancomycin NDC 0121 - 0890 - 50 , Rx Only 50 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
