Rx Only 100 Capsules DESCRIPTION Uribel ™ capsules for oral administration Each capsule contains : Methenamine 118 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 36 mg Methylene Blue 10 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE .
[ 620 - 61 - 1 ] [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - α - ( Hydroxymethyl ) - benzeneacetic acid 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 1αH , 5αH - tropan - 3α - ol ( - ) - tropate ( ester ) sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) ; 3α - tropanyl S - ( - ) - tropate ; I - tropic acid ester with tropine ; I - tropine tropate .
C 34 H 48 N 2 O 10 S .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate is an alkaloid of belladonna .
Exists as a white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Affected by light , it is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in alcohol ; sparingly soluble in ether .
METHENAMINE .
[ 100 - 97 - 0 ] 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - Tetraazatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . - 1 3 , 7 ] decane ; hexamethylenetetramine ; HMT ; HMTA ; hexamine ; 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraazaadamantane hexamethylenemine ; Uritone ; Urotropin .
C 6 H 12 N 4 ; mol wt 140 . 19 ; C 51 . 40 % , H 8 . 63 % , N 39 . 96 % .
Methenamine ( hexamethylenetetramine ) exists as colorless , lustrous crystals or white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are alkaline to litmus .
Freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohol and in chloroform .
METHYLENE BLUE .
[ 61 - 73 - 4 ] 3 , 7 - Bis ( dimethylamino ) phenothiazin - 5 - ium chloride ; C . I . Basic Blue 9 ; methylthioninium chloride ; tetramethylthionine chloride ; 3 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) phenazathionium chloride .
C 16 H 18 ClN 3 S ; mol wt 319 . 85 , C 60 . 08 % , H 5 . 67 % , Cl 11 . 08 % , N 13 . 14 % , S 10 . 03 % .
Methylene Blue ( Methylthionine chloride ) exists as dark green crystals .
It is soluble in water and in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in alcohol .
PHENYL SALICYLATE .
[ 118 - 55 - 8 ] 2 - Hydroxybenzoic acid phenyl ester ; Salol .
C 13 H 10 O 3 ; mol wt 214 . 22 , C 72 . 89 % , H 4 . 71 % , O 22 . 41 % .
Made by the action of phosphorus oxy - chloride on a mixture of phenol and salicylic acid .
Phenyl Salicylate exists as white crystals with a melting point of 41 ° - 43 ° C .
It is very slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC .
[ 7558 - 80 - 7 ] Phosphoric acid sodium salt ( 1 : 1 ) ; Sodium biphosphate ; sodium dihydrogen phosphate ; acid sodium phosphate ; monosodium orthophosphate ; primary sodium phosphate ; H 2 NaO 4 P ; mol wt 119 . 98 , H 1 . 68 % , Na 19 . 16 % , O 53 . 34 % , P 25 . 82 % .
Monohydrate , white , odorless slightly deliquesce crystals or granules .
At 100 ° C loses all its water ; when ignited it converts to metaphosphate .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
The aqueous solution is acid .
pH of 0 . 1 molar aqueous solution at 25 ° C : 4 . 5 .
Uribel ™ capsules contain inactive ingredients : Dicalcium Phosphate , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 , Gelatin , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Povidone , Propylene Glycol , Shellac , Silicon Dioxide , Sodium Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , and Titanium Dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE is a parasympatholytic which relaxes smooth muscles and thus produces an antispasmodic effect .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is rapidly distributed throughout the body tissues .
Most is excreted in the urine within 12 hours , 13 % to 50 % being unchanged .
Its biotransformation is hepatic .
Its protein binding is moderate .
METHENAMINE degrades in an acidic urine environment releasing formaldehyde which provides bactericidal or bacteriostatic action .
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
70 % - 90 % reaches the urine unchanged at which point it is hydrolyzed if the urine is acidic .
Within 24 hours it is almost completely ( 90 % ) excreted ; of this at a pH of 5 , approximately 20 % is formaldehyde .
Protein binding – some formaldehyde is bound to substances in the urine and surrounding tissues .
Methenamine is freely distributed to body tissue and fluids but is not clinically significant as it does not hydrolyze at pH greater than 6 . 8 .
METHYLENE BLUE possesses weak antiseptic properties .
It is well absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract and rapidly reduced to leukomethylene blue which is stabilized in some combination form in the urine .
75 % is excreted unchanged .
PHENYL SALICYLATE releases salicylate , a mild analgesic for pain .
SODIUM PHOSPHATE MONOBASIC an acidifier , helps to maintain an acid pH in the urine necessary for the degradation of methenamine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Uribel ™ capsules indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding .
Indicated for the relief of local symptoms , such as inflammation , hypermotility , and pain , which accompany lower urinary tract infections .
Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is possible .
Risk benefits should be carefully considered when the following medical problems exist : cardiac disease ( especially cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , coronary heart disease , and mitral stenosis ) ; gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease ; glaucoma ; myasthenia gravis , acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy ( such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) .
WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage .
If rapid pulse , dizziness or blurring of vision occurs discontinue use immediately .
PRECAUTIONS Cross sensitivity and / or related problems patients intolerant of belladonna alkaloids or salicylates may be intolerant of this medication also .
Delay in gastric emptying could complicate the management of gastric ulcers .
Pregnancy / Reproduction ( FDA Pregnancy Category C ) hyoscyamine and methenamine cross the placenta .
Studies concerning the effect of hyoscyamine and methenamine on pregnancy and reproduction have not been done in animals or humans .
Thus it is not known whether Uribel ™ capsules cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Uribel ™ capsules should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Breast feeding problems in humans have not been documented ; however , methenamine and traces of hyoscyamine are excreted in breast milk .
Accordingly , Uribel ™ capsules should be given to a nursing mother with caution and only if clearly needed .
Prolonged use there have been no studies to establish the safety of prolonged use in humans .
No known long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pediatric infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effect of the belladonna alkaloids .
Geriatric Use use with caution in elderly patients as they may respond to usual doses of hyoscyamine with excitement , agitation , drowsiness or confusion .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular : rapid heartbeat , flushing Central Nervous System : blurred vision , dizziness , drowsiness Genitourinary : difficulty micturition , acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal : dry mouth , nausea and vomiting Respiratory : shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare .
Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , including itching , rash , severe dizziness , swelling or trouble breathing .
This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue - green .
This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped .
Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Star Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 800 - 845 - 7827 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 , www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Drug interactions because of this product ' s effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying , it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as : urinary alkalizers ; thiazide diuretics ( may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde ) ; antimuscarinics ( concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications ) ; antacids / antidiarrheals ( may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine , concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline , reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde ) .
Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine ; antimyasthenics ( concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility ) ; ketoconazole ( patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole ) ; monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects ) , opioid ( narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation ) ; sulfonamides ( these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine , increasing the danger of crystalluria ) .
Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue - green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE A dependence on the use of Uribel ™ capsules has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients , abuse of Uribel ™ capsules is not expected .
OVERDOSAGE Emesis or gastric lavage .
Slow intravenous administration of physostigmine in doses of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in children ) , repeated as needed in one to two hours to reverse severe antimuscarinic symptoms .
Administration of small doses of diazepam to control excitement and seizures .
Artificial respiration with oxygen if needed for respiratory depression .
Adequate hydration .
Symptomatic treatment as necessary .
If overdose is suspected , contact your local poison center or emergency room immediately .
US residents can contact the US National Poison Hotline at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults one capsule orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake .
Older Children Dosage must be individualized by physician .
Not recommended for use in children six years of age or younger .
HOW SUPPLIED Uribel ™ capsules are purple / purple capsules imprinted " S 111 " .
NDC 0076 - 0111 - 01 , Bottle of 100 Capsules and NDC 0076 - 0111 - 02 , Carton of 20 individually pouched capsules .
STORAGE Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Keep in a cool , dry place .
Keep container tightly closed .
WARNING : Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
Rx Only Uribel ™ is a trademark of Star Pharmaceuticals , LLC Distributed by : MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY San Antonio , TX 78230 Manufactured for : STAR PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33306 Rev . 11101 - 24 06 / 12 SPL Unclassified Section 100 Capsule Bottle Label NDC 0076 - 0111 - 01 Uribel ™ EACH CAPSULE CONTAINS Methenamine 118 mg Sodium Phosphate Monobasic 40 . 8 mg Phenyl Salicylate 36 mg Methylene Blue 10 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate 0 . 12 mg Rx ONLY 100 Capsules Uribel ™ is a trademark of Star Pharmaceuticals , LLC Distributed by : MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY San Antonio , TX 78230 Manufactured for : STAR PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC Ft . Lauderdale , FL33306 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
