Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 08 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fosaprepitant for injection , in combination with other antiemetic agents , is indicated in adults for the prevention of : • • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) including high - dose cisplatin .
• • delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) .
Limitations of Use • • Fosaprepitant for injection has not been studied for the treatment of established nausea and vomiting .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Fosaprepitant for injection is a substance P / neurokinin - 1 ( NK1 ) receptor antagonist , indicated in adults , in combination with other antiemetic agents , for the prevention of ( 1 ) : • • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) including high - dose cisplatin .
• • delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) .
Limitations of Use ( 1 ) • • Fosaprepitant for injection has not been studied for treatment of established nausea and vomiting .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) • • Adults : 150 mg on Day 1 .
• • Administer fosaprepitant for injection on Day 1 as an intravenous infusion over 20 to 30 minutes ( adults ) , completing the infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
• • See Full Prescribing Information for dosages of concomitant antiemetic ( s ) .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC and MEC in Adult Patients The recommended dosage of fosaprepitant for injection , dexamethasone , and a 5 - HT3 antagonist for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with administration of HEC or MEC in adults is shown in Table 1 or Table 2 , respectively .
Administer fosaprepitant for injection as an intravenous infusion on Day 1 over 20 to 30 minutes , completing the infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
Table 1 Recommended Adult Dosing for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Fosaprepitant for injection 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy none none none Dexamethasone * 12 mg orally 8 mg orally 8 mg orally twice daily 8 mg orally twice daily 5 - HT3 antagonist See selected 5 - HT3 antagonist prescribing information for the recommended dosage none none none * Administer dexamethasone 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
Also administer dexamethasone in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 .
A 50 % dosage reduction of dexamethasone on Days 1 and 2 is recommended to account for a drug interaction with fosaprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 2 Recommended Adult Dosing for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC Day 1 Fosaprepitant for injection 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy Dexamethasone * 12 mg orally 5 - HT3 antagonist See selected 5 - HT3 antagonist prescribing information for the recommended dosage * Administer dexamethasone 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
A 50 % dosage reduction of dexamethasone is recommended to account for a drug interaction with fosaprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 3 Preparation of Fosaprepitant for Injection Table 5 Preparation Instructions for Fosaprepitant for injection ( 150 mg ) Step 1 Aseptically inject 5 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP into the vial .
Assure that 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is added to the vial along the vial wall in order to prevent foaming .
Swirl the vial gently .
Avoid shaking and jetting 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP into the vial .
Step 2 Aseptically prepare an infusion bag filled with 145 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Step 3 Aseptically withdraw the entire volume from the vial and transfer it into the infusion bag containing 145 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to yield a total volume of 150 mLand a final concentration of 1 mg / mL .
Step 4 Gently invert the bag 2 to 3 times .
Step 5 Adults The entire volume of the prepared infusion bag ( 150 mL ) should be administered .
Step 6 Before administration , inspect the bag for particulate matter and discoloration .
Discard the bag if particulate and / or discoloration are observed .
Caution : Do not mix or reconstitute fosaprepitant for injection with solutions for which physical and chemical compatibility have not been established .
Fosaprepitant for injection is incompatible with any solutions containing divalent cations ( e . g . , Ca2 + , Mg2 + ) , including Lactated Ringer ’ s Solution and Hartmann ' s Solution .
Storage The reconstituted final drug solution is stable for 24 hours at ambient room temperature [ at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ] .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Fosaprepitant for injection : 150 mg fosaprepitant , white lyophilized powder or cake in single - dose glass vial for reconstitution Fosaprepitant for injection : 150 mg fosaprepitant , lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fosaprepitant for injection is contraindicated in patients : • • who are hypersensitive to any component of the product .
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions , flushing , erythema , and dyspnea have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• • taking pimozide .
Inhibition of CYP3A4 by aprepitant , the active moiety , could result in elevated plasma concentrations of this drug , which is a CYP3A4 substrate , potentially causing serious or life - threatening reactions , such as QT prolongation , a known adverse reaction of pimozide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • • Concurrent use with pimozide .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • CYP3A4 Interactions : Fosaprepitant is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 , and aprepitant , the active moiety , is a substrate , inhibitor , and inducer of CYP3A4 ; see Full Prescribing Information for recommendations regarding contraindications , risk of adverse reactions , and dosage adjustment of fosaprepitant and concomitant drugs .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity Reactions ( including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock ) : May occur during or soon after infusion .
If symptoms occur , discontinue the drug .
Do not reinitiate fosaprepitant if symptoms occur with previous use .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • • Infusion Site Reactions ( including thrombophlebitis , necrosis , and vasculitis ) : Majority of reactions reported in patients receiving vesicant chemotherapy .
Avoid infusion into small veins .
Discontinue infusion and administer treatment if a severe reaction develops .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Warfarin ( a CYP2C9 substrate ) : Risk of decreased INR of prothrombin time ; monitor INR in 2 – week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of fosaprepitant .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • Hormonal Contraceptives : Efficacy of contraceptives may be reduced during and for 28 days following administration of fosaprepitant .
Use effective alternative or back - up methods of contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Clinically Significant CYP3A4 Drug Interactions Fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant , is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 , and aprepitant is a substrate , inhibitor , and inducer of CYP3A4 .
• • Use of fosaprepitant with other drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates , may result in increased plasma concentration of the concomitant drug .
• oUse of pimozide with fosaprepitant is contraindicated due to the risk of significantly increased plasma concentrations of pimozide , potentially resulting in prolongation of the QT interval , a known adverse reaction of pimozide [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• • Use of fosaprepitant with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , diltiazem ) may increase plasma concentrations of aprepitant and result in an increased risk of adverse reactions related to fosaprepitant .
• • Use of fosaprepitant with strong CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) may result in a reduction in aprepitant plasma concentrations and decreased efficacy of fosaprepitant .
See Table 7 and Table 8 for a listing of potentially significant drug interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , during or soon after infusion of fosaprepitant have occurred .
Symptoms including flushing , erythema , dyspnea , hypotension and syncope have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients during and after infusion .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue the infusion and administer appropriate medical therapy .
Do not reinitiate fosaprepitant in patients who experience these symptoms with previous use [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Infusion Site Reactions Infusion site reactions ( ISRs ) have been reported with the use of fosaprepitant for injection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The majority of severe ISRs , including thrombophlebitis and vasculitis , were reported with concomitant vesicant ( anthracycline - based ) chemotherapy administration , particularly when associated with extravasation .
Necrosis was also reported in some patients with concomitant vesicant chemotherapy .
Most ISRs occurred with the first , second or third exposure to single doses of fosaprepitant for injection and in some cases , reactions persisted for two weeks or longer .
Treatment of severe ISRs consisted of medical , and in some cases surgical , intervention .
Avoid infusion of fosaprepitant for injection into small veins or through a butterfly catheter .
If a severe ISR develops during infusion , discontinue the infusion and administer appropriate medical treatment .
5 . 4 Decrease in INR with Concomitant Warfarin Coadministration of fosaprepitant with warfarin , a CYP2C9 substrate , may result in a clinically significant decrease in the International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) of prothrombin time [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor the INR in patients on chronic warfarin therapy in the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of fosaprepitant with each chemotherapy cycle [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Risk of Reduced Efficacy of Hormonal Contraceptives Upon coadministration with fosaprepitant , the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced during administration of and for 28 days following the last dose of fosaprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to use effective alternative or back - up methods of contraception during treatment with fosaprepitant and for 1 month following administration of fosaprepitant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Infusion Site Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions in adults ( ≥ 2 % ) are : fatigue , diarrhea , neutropenia , asthenia , anemia , peripheral neuropathy , leukopenia , dyspepsia , urinary tract infection , pain in extremity .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Corp . at 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The overall safety of fosaprepitant for injection was evaluated in approximately 1600 adult patients .
Adverse Reactions in Adults for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC In an active - controlled clinical trial in patients receiving MEC , safety was evaluated in 504 patients receiving a single dose of fosaprepitant for injection in combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone ( fosaprepitant regimen ) compared to 497 patients receiving ondansetron and dexamethasone alone ( standard therapy ) .
The most common adverse reactions are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 Most Common Adverse Reactions in Patients Receiving MEC * Fosaprepitant for injection , ondansetron , and dexamethasone † ( N = 504 ) Ondansetron and dexamethasone ‡ ( N = 497 ) fatigue 15 % 13 % diarrhea 13 % 11 % neutropenia 8 % 7 % asthenia 4 % 3 % anemia 3 % 2 % peripheral neuropathy 3 % 2 % leukopenia 2 % 1 % dyspepsia 2 % 1 % urinary tract infection 2 % 1 % pain in extremity 2 % 1 % * Reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with the fosaprepitant regimen and at a greater incidence than standard therapy .
† fosaprepitant regimen ‡ Standard therapy Infusion - site reactions were reported in 2 . 2 % of patients treated with the fosaprepitant regimen compared to 0 . 6 % of patients treated with standard therapy .
The infusion - site reactions included : infusion - site pain ( 1 . 2 % , 0 . 4 % ) , injection - site irritation ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 0 % ) , vessel puncture - site pain ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 0 % ) , and infusion - site thrombophlebitis ( 0 . 6 % , 0 . 0 % ) , reported in the fosaprepitant regimen compared to standard therapy , respectively .
Adverse Reactions in Adults for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC In an active - controlled clinical study in patients receiving HEC , safety was evaluated for 1143 patients receiving a single dose of fosaprepitant for injection compared to 1169 patients receiving the 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant capsules [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The safety profile was generally similar to that seen in the MEC study with fosaprepitant and prior HEC studies with aprepitant .
However , infusion - site reactions occurred at a higher incidence in patients in the fosaprepitant group ( 3 . 0 % ) compared to those in the aprepitant group ( 0 . 5 % ) .
The following additional infusion - site reactions occurred in the HEC study and were not reported in the MEC study described above : infusion - site erythema ( 0 . 5 % , 0 . 1 % ) , infusion - site pruritus ( 0 . 3 % , 0 . 0 % ) , and infusion - site induration ( 0 . 2 % , 0 . 1 % ) , reported in the fosaprepitant group compared to the aprepitant group , respectively .
Because fosaprepitant is converted to aprepitant , those adverse reactions associated with aprepitant might also be expected to occur with fosaprepitant for injection .
See the full prescribing information for aprepitant capsules for complete safety information regarding studies performed with oral aprepitant capsules .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of fosaprepitant .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : pruritus , rash , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Nervous system disorders : ifosfamide - induced neurotoxicity reported after fosaprepitant and ifosfamide coadministration .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Full Prescribing Information for a list of clinically significant drug interactions .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
7 . 1 Effect of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs When administered intravenously , fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant , is converted to aprepitant within 30 minutes .
Therefore , drug interactions following administration of fosaprepitant for injection are likely to occur with drugs that interact with oral aprepitant .
Fosaprepitant , given as a single 150 - mg dose , is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 , and the weak inhibition of CYP3A4 continues for 2 days after single dose administration .
Single dose fosaprepitant does not induce CYP3A4 .
Aprepitant is a substrate , an inhibitor , and an inducer of CYP3A4 .
Aprepitant is also an inducer of CYP2C9 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Some substrates of CYP3A4 are contraindicated with fosaprepitant [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Dosage adjustment of some CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrates may be warranted , as shown in Table 7 .
Table 7 Effects of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs CYP3A4 Substrates Pimozide Clinical Impact Increased pimozide exposure Intervention Fosaprepitant is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Benzodiazepines Clinical Impact Increased exposure to midazolam or other benzodiazepines metabolized via CYP3A4 ( alprazolam , triazolam ) may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Monitor for benzodiazepine - related adverse reactions .
Dexamethasone Clinical Impact Increased dexamethasone exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the dose of oral dexamethasone by approximately 50 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Methylprednisolone Clinical Impact Increased methylprednisolone exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Reduce the dose of oral methylprednisolone by approximately 50 % on Days 1 and 2 for patients receiving HEC and on Day 1 for patients receiving MEC .
Reduce the dose of intravenous methylprednisolone by 25 % on Days 1 and 2 for patients receiving HEC and on Day 1 for patients receiving MEC .
Chemotherapeutic agents that are metabolized by CYP3A4 Clinical Impact Increased exposure of the chemotherapeutic agent may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Vinblastine , vincristine , or ifosfamide or other chemotherapeutic agents • Monitor for chemotherapeutic - related adverse reactions .
Etoposide , vinorelbine , paclitaxel , and docetaxel • No dosage adjustment needed .
Hormonal Contraceptives Clinical Impact Decreased hormonal exposure during administration of and for 28 days after administration of the last dose of fosaprepitant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Effective alternative or back - up methods of contraception ( such as condoms and spermicides ) should be used during treatment with fosaprepitant and for 1 month following administration of fosaprepitant .
Examples birth control pills , skin patches , implants , and certain IUDs CYP2C9 Substrates Warfarin Clinical Impact Decreased warfarin exposure and prolongation of prothrombin time ( INR ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention In patients on chronic warfarin therapy , monitor the prothrombin time ( INR ) in the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following administration of fosaprepitant with each chemotherapy cycle .
Other 5 - HT3 Antagonists Clinical Impact No change in the exposure of the 5 - HT3 antagonist [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention No dosage adjustment needed Examples ondansetron , granisetron , dolasetron 7 . 2 Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant Aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Co - administration of fosaprepitant with drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 may result in increased or decreased plasma concentrations of aprepitant , respectively , as shown in Table 8 .
Table 8 Effects of Other Drugs on Pharmacokinetics of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant Moderate to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Significantly increased exposure of aprepitant may increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with fosaprepitant [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use of fosaprepitant Examples Moderate inhibitor : diltiazem Strong inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , nelfinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact Substantially decreased exposure of aprepitant in patients chronically taking a strong CYP3A4 inducer may decrease the efficacy of fosaprepitant [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Avoid concomitant use of fosaprepitant Examples rifampin , carbamazepine , phenytoin 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are insufficient data on use of fosaprepitant in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats or rabbits exposed during the period of organogenesis to systemic drug levels ( AUC ) approximately equivalent to the exposure at the recommended human dose ( RHD ) of 150 mg [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In embryofetal development studies in rats and rabbits , aprepitant was administered during the period of organogenesis at oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg twice daily ( rats ) and up to the maximum tolerated dose of 25 mg / kg / day ( rabbits ) .
No embryofetal lethality or malformations were observed at any dose level in either species .
The exposures ( AUC ) in pregnant rats at 1000 mg / kg twice daily and in pregnant rabbits at 25 mg / kg / day were approximately equivalent to the exposure at the RHD of 150 mg .
Aprepitant crosses the placenta in rats and rabbits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted to assess the presence of aprepitant in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Aprepitant is present in rat milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for fosaprepitant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from fosaprepitant or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Upon administration of fosaprepitant for injection , the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced .
Advise females of reproductive potential using hormonal contraceptives to use an effective alternative or back - up non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicides ) during treatment with fosaprepitant and for 1 month following the last dose [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of fosaprepitant for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with HEC or MEC have not been established in patients less than 6 months of age .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data In juvenile dogs treated with fosaprepitant , changes in reproductive organs were observed .
In juvenile rats treated with aprepitant , slight changes in sexual maturation were observed without an effect on reproduction .
No effects on neurobehavior , sensory and motor function , or learning and memory were observed in rats .
In a toxicity study in juvenile dogs treated with fosaprepitant from postnatal day 14 ( equivalent to a newborn human ) to day 42 ( approximately equivalent to a 2 year old human ) , decreased testicular weight and Leydig cell size were seen in the males at 6 mg / kg / day and increased uterine weight , hypertrophy of the uterus and cervix , and edema of vaginal tissues were seen in females from 4 mg / kg / day .
A study was also conducted in young rats to evaluate the effects of aprepitant on growth and on neurobehavioral and sexual development .
Rats were treated at oral doses up to the maximum feasible dose of 1000 mg / kg twice daily from the early postnatal period ( Postnatal Day 10 ( equivalent to a newborn human ) through Postnatal Day 58 ( approximately equivalent to a 15 year old human ) ) .
Slight changes in the onset of sexual maturation were observed in female and male rats ; however , there were no effects on mating , fertility , embryonic - fetal survival , or histomorphology of the reproductive organs .
There were no effects in neurobehavioral tests of sensory function , motor function , and learning and memory .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1649 adult cancer patients treated with intravenous fosaprepitant in HEC and MEC clinical studies , 27 % were aged 65 and over , while 5 % were aged 75 and over .
Other reported clinical experience with fosaprepitant has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , use caution when dosing elderly patients as they have a greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of aprepitant in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment were similar to those of healthy subjects with normal hepatic function .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 9 ) .
There are no clinical or pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score greater than 9 ) .
Therefore , additional monitoring for adverse reactions in these patients may be warranted when fosaprepitant is administered [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific information on the treatment of overdosage with fosaprepitant or aprepitant .
In the event of overdose , fosaprepitant should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and monitoring should be provided .
Because of the antiemetic activity of fosaprepitant , drug - induced emesis may not be effective in cases of fosaprepitant overdosage .
Aprepitant is not removed by hemodialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Fosaprepitant for injection is a sterile , lyophilized formulation containing fosaprepitant dimeglumine , a prodrug of aprepitant , a substance P / neurokinin - 1 ( NK1 ) receptor antagonist , an antiemetic agent , chemically described as 1 - Deoxy - 1 - ( methylamino ) - D - glucitol [ 3 - [ [ ( 2 R , 3 S ) - 2 - [ ( 1 R ) - 1 - [ 3 , 5 - bis ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ] ethoxy ] - 3 - ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) - 4 - morpholinyl ] methyl ] - 2 , 5 - dihydro - 5 - oxo - 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ] phosphonate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Its molecular formula is C23H22F7N4O6P × 2 ( C7H17NO5 ) and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fosaprepitant dimeglumine is a white to off - white amorphous powder with a molecular weight of 1004 . 83 g / mol .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in N , N Dimethylsulfoxide and insoluble in n - hexane .
Each vial of fosaprepitant for injection for administration as an intravenous infusion contains 150 mg of fosaprepitant ( equivalent to 245 . 3 mg of fosaprepitant dimeglumine ) and the following inactive ingredients : edetate disodium ( 5 . 4 mg ) , lactose anhydrous ( 375 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 75 mg ) , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( for pH adjustment ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fosaprepitant is a prodrug of aprepitant and accordingly , its antiemetic effects are attributable to aprepitant .
Aprepitant is a selective high - affinity antagonist of human substance P / neurokinin 1 ( NK1 ) receptors .
Aprepitant has little or no affinity for serotonin ( 5 - HT3 ) , dopamine , and corticosteroid receptors , the targets of existing therapies for chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting ( CINV ) .
Aprepitant has been shown in animal models to inhibit emesis induced by cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , via central actions .
Animal and human Positron Emission Tomography ( PET ) studies with aprepitant have shown that it crosses the blood brain barrier and occupies brain NK1 receptors .
Animal and human studies have shown that aprepitant augments the antiemetic activity of the 5 - HT3 - receptor antagonist ondansetron and the corticosteroid dexamethasone and inhibits both the acute and delayed phases of cisplatin - induced emesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , double - blind , positive - controlled , thorough QTc study , a single 200 ‑ mg dose of fosaprepitant ( approximately 1 . 3 times the recommended dose ) had no effect on the QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Aprepitant after Fosaprepitant Administration Following administration of a single intravenous 150 ‑ mg dose of fosaprepitant , a prodrug of aprepitant administered as a 20 ‑ minute infusion to healthy subjects , the mean AUC0 - ∞ of aprepitant was 37 . 4 ( ± 14 . 8 ) mcg · hr / mL and the mean maximal aprepitant concentration ( Cmax ) was 4 . 2 ( ± 1 . 2 ) mcg / mL .
Plasma concentrations of fosaprepitant are below the limits of quantification ( 10 ng / mL ) within 30 minutes of the completion of infusion .
Distribution Aprepitant is greater than 95 % bound to plasma proteins .
The mean apparent volume of distribution at steady state ( Vdss ) was approximately 70 L in humans .
Aprepitant crosses the blood brain barrier in humans [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism Fosaprepitant is converted to aprepitant in in vitro incubations with human liver preparations and in S9 preparations from multiple other human tissues including kidney , lung and ileum .
Thus , it appears that the conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant can occur in multiple extrahepatic tissues in addition to the liver .
Aprepitant undergoes extensive metabolism .
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicate that aprepitant is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 with minor metabolism by CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 .
Metabolism is largely via oxidation at the morpholine ring and its side chains .
No metabolism by CYP2D6 , CYP2C9 , or CYP2E1 was detected .
In healthy young adults , aprepitant accounts for approximately 24 % of the radioactivity in plasma over 72 hours following a single oral 300 ‑ mg dose of [ 14 C ] ‑ aprepitant , indicating a substantial presence of metabolites in the plasma .
Seven metabolites of aprepitant , which are only weakly active , have been identified in human plasma .
Excretion Following administration of a single intravenous 100 - mg dose of [ 14 C ] - fosaprepitant to healthy subjects , 57 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine and 45 % in feces .
Aprepitant is eliminated primarily by metabolism ; aprepitant is not renally excreted .
The apparent terminal half - life ranged from approximately 9 to 13 hours .
Specific Populations Age : Geriatric Population Following oral administration of a single 125 - mg dose of aprepitant on Day 1 and 80 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 21 % higher on Day 1 and 36 % higher on Day 5 in elderly ( 65 years and older ) relative to younger adults .
The Cmax was 10 % higher on Day 1 and 24 % higher on Day 5 in elderly relative to younger adults .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Sex Following oral administration of a single dose of aprepitant , ranging from 40 mg to 375 mg , the AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax are 9 % and 17 % higher in females as compared with males .
The half - life of aprepitant is approximately 25 % lower in females as compared with males and Tmax occurs at approximately the same time .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful .
Race / Ethnicity Following oral administration of a single dose of aprepitant , ranging from 40 mg to 375 mg , the AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax are approximately 27 % and 19 % higher in Hispanics as compared with Caucasians .
The AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax were 74 % and 47 % higher in Asians as compared to Caucasians .
There was no difference in AUC0 - 24 hr or Cmax between Caucasians and Blacks .
These differences are not considered clinically meaningful .
Renal Impairment A single 240 ‑ mg oral dose of aprepitant was administered to patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 as measured by 24 - hour urinary creatinine clearance ) and to patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) requiring hemodialysis .
In patients with severe renal impairment , the AUC0 - ∞ of total aprepitant ( unbound and protein bound ) decreased by 21 % and Cmax decreased by 32 % , relative to healthy subjects ( creatinine clearance greater than 80 mL / min estimated by Cockcroft - Gault method ) .
In patients with ESRD undergoing hemodialysis , the AUC0 - ∞ of total aprepitant decreased by 42 % and Cmax decreased by 32 % .
Due to modest decreases in protein binding of aprepitant in patients with renal disease , the AUC of pharmacologically active unbound drug was not significantly affected in patients with renal impairment compared with healthy subjects .
Hemodialysis conducted 4 or 48 hours after dosing had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant ; less than 0 . 2 % of the dose was recovered in the dialysate .
Hepatic Impairment Fosaprepitant is metabolized in various extrahepatic tissues ; therefore hepatic impairment is not expected to alter the conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant .
Following administration of a single 125 ‑ mg oral dose of aprepitant on Day 1 and 80 mg once daily on Days 2 and 3 to patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 11 % lower on Day 1 and 36 % lower on Day 3 , as compared with healthy subjects given the same regimen .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) , the AUC0 - 24 hr of aprepitant was 10 % higher on Day 1 and 18 % higher on Day 3 , as compared with healthy subjects given the same regimen .
These differences in AUC0 - 24 hr are not considered clinically meaningful .
There are no clinical or pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score greater than 9 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Body Mass Index ( BMI ) For every 5 kg / m2 increase in BMI , AUC0 - 24 hr and Cmax of aprepitant decrease by 9 % and 10 % .
BMI of subjects in the analysis ranged from 18 kg / m2 to 36 kg / m2 .
This change is not considered clinically meaningful .
Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Drug Interactions Studies Fosaprepitant , given as a single 150 - mg dose , is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 , with no evidence of inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 observed on Day 4 .
The weak inhibition of CYP3A4 continues for 2 days after single dose administration of fosaprepitant .
Aprepitant is a substrate , an inhibitor , and an inducer of CYP3A4 .
Aprepitant is also an inducer of CYP2C9 .
Fosaprepitant or aprepitant is unlikely to interact with drugs that are substrates for the P - glycoprotein transporter .
Effects of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs CYP3A4 Substrates Midazolam : Fosaprepitant 150 mg administered as a single intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0 - ∞ of midazolam by approximately 1 . 8 - fold on Day 1 and had no effect on Day 4 when midazolam was coadministered as a single oral dose of 2 mg on Days 1 and 4 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Corticosteroids : Dexamethasone : Fosaprepitant administered as a single 150 mg intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0 - 24 hr of dexamethasone , administered as a single 8 - mg oral dose on Days 1 , 2 , and 3 , by approximately 2 - fold on Days 1 and 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Methylprednisolone : When oral aprepitant as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 - mg / 80 - mg / 80 - mg ) was administered with intravenous methylprednisolone 125 mg on Day 1 and oral methylprednisolone 40 mg on Days 2 and 3 , the AUC of methylprednisolone was increased by 1 . 34 ‑ fold on Day 1 and by 2 . 5 ‑ fold on Day 3 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Chemotherapeutic agents : Docetaxel : In a pharmacokinetic study , oral aprepitant administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 - mg / 80 - mg / 80 - mg ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel .
Vinorelbine : In a pharmacokinetic study , oral aprepitant administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 - mg / 80 - mg / 80 - mg ) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of vinorelbine to a clinically significant degree .
Oral contraceptives : When oral aprepitant was administered as a 3 - day regimen ( 125 - mg / 80 - mg / 80 - mg ) with ondansetron and dexamethasone , and coadministered with an oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone , the trough concentrations of both ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were reduced by as much as 64 % for 3 weeks post - treatment [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
CYP2C9 substrates ( Warfarin , Tolbutamide ) : Warfarin : A single 125 ‑ mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 1 and 80 mg / day on Days 2 and 3 to subjects who were stabilized on chronic warfarin therapy .
Although there was no effect of oral aprepitant on the plasma AUC of R ( + ) or S ( - ) warfarin determined on Day 3 , there was a 34 % decrease in S ( - ) warfarin trough concentration accompanied by a 14 % decrease in the prothrombin time ( reported as International Normalized Ratio or INR ) 5 days after completion of dosing with oral aprepitant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Tolbutamide : Oral aprepitant , when given as 125 mg on Day 1 and 80 mg / day on Days 2 and 3 , decreased the AUC of tolbutamide by 23 % on Day 4 , 28 % on Day 8 , and 15 % on Day 15 , when a single dose of tolbutamide 500 mg was administered prior to the administration of the 3 - day regimen of oral aprepitant and on Days 4 , 8 , and 15 .
This effect was not considered clinically important .
Other Drugs P - glycoprotein substrates : Aprepitant is unlikely to interact with drugs that are substrates for the P - glycoprotein transporter , as demonstrated by the lack of interaction of oral aprepitant with digoxin in a clinical drug interaction study .
5 - HT3 antagonists : In clinical drug interaction studies , aprepitant did not have clinically important effects on the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron , granisetron , or hydrodolasetron ( the active metabolite of dolasetron ) .
Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Fosaprepitant / Aprepitant Rifampin : When a single 375 ‑ mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 9 of a 14 ‑ day regimen of 600 mg / day of rifampin , a strong CYP3A4 inducer , the AUC of aprepitant decreased approximately 11 ‑ fold and the mean terminal half - life decreased approximately 3 ‑ fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Ketoconazole : When a single 125 ‑ mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered on Day 5 of a 10 ‑ day regimen of 400 mg / day of ketoconazole , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , the AUC of aprepitant increased approximately 5 ‑ fold and the mean terminal half - life of aprepitant increased approximately 3 ‑ fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Diltiazem : In a study in 10 patients with mild to moderate hypertension , administration of 100 mg of fosaprepitant as an intravenous infusion with 120 mg of diltiazem , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor administered three times daily , resulted in a 1 . 5 - fold increase in the aprepitant AUC and a 1 . 4 ‑ fold increase in the diltiazem AUC .
When fosaprepitant was administered with diltiazem , the mean maximum decrease in diastolic blood pressure was significantly greater than that observed with diltiazem alone [ 24 . 3 ± 10 . 2 mm Hg with fosaprepitant versus 15 . 6 ± 4 . 1 mm Hg without fosaprepitant ] .
The mean maximum decrease in systolic blood pressure was also greater after co - administration of diltiazem with fosaprepitant than administration of diltiazem alone [ 29 . 5 ± 7 . 9 mm Hg with fosaprepitant versus 23 . 8 ± 4 . 8 mm Hg without fosaprepitant ] .
Co - administration of fosaprepitant and diltiazem ; however , did not result in any additional clinically significant changes in heart rate or PR interval , beyond those changes observed with diltiazem alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Paroxetine : Coadministration of once daily doses of oral aprepitant 170 mg , with paroxetine 20 mg once daily , resulted in a decrease in AUC by approximately 25 % and Cmax by approximately 20 % of both aprepitant and paroxetine .
This effect was not considered clinically important .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in Sprague - Dawley rats and in CD - 1 mice for 2 years .
In the rat carcinogenicity studies , animals were treated with oral doses ranging from 0 . 05 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily .
The highest dose produced systemic exposures to aprepitant approximately equivalent to ( female rats ) or less than ( male rats ) the adult human exposure at the RHD of 150 mg .
Treatment with aprepitant at doses of 5 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily caused an increase in the incidences of thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in male rats .
In female rats , it produced hepatocellular adenomas at 5 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily and hepatocellular carcinomas and thyroid follicular cell adenomas at 125 to 1000 mg / kg twice daily .
In the mouse carcinogenicity studies , the animals were treated with oral doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 2000 mg / kg / day .
The highest dose produced a systemic exposure approximately 2 times the adult human exposure at the RHD of 150 mg .
Treatment with aprepitant produced skin fibrosarcomas at 125 and 500 mg / kg / day doses in male mice .
Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with fosaprepitant .
Mutagenesis Aprepitant and fosaprepitant were not genotoxic in the Ames test , the human lymphoblastoid cell ( TK6 ) mutagenesis test , the rat hepatocyte DNA strand break test , the Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosome aberration test and the mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility Fosaprepitant , when administered intravenously , is rapidly converted to aprepitant .
In the fertility studies conducted with fosaprepitant and aprepitant , the highest systemic exposures to aprepitant were obtained following oral administration of aprepitant .
Oral aprepitant did not affect the fertility or general reproductive performance of male or female rats at doses up to the maximum feasible dose of 1000 mg / kg twice daily ( providing exposure in male rats lower than the exposure at the recommended adult human dose of 150 mg and exposure in female rats approximately equivalent to the adult human exposure ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with HEC in Adults In a randomized , parallel , double - blind , active - controlled study , fosaprepitant for injection 150 mg as a single intravenous infusion ( N = 1147 ) was compared to a 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen ( N = 1175 ) in patients receiving a HEC regimen that included cisplatin ( ≥ 70 mg / m2 ) .
All patients in both groups received dexamethasone and ondansetron ( see Table 11 ) .
Patient demographics were similar between the two treatment groups .
Of the total 2322 patients , 63 % were men , 56 % White , 26 % Asian , 3 % American Indian / Alaska Native , 2 % Black , 13 % Multi - Racial , and 33 % Hispanic / Latino ethnicity .
Patient ages ranged from 19 to 86 years of age , with a mean age of 56 years .
Other concomitant chemotherapy agents commonly administered were fluorouracil ( 17 % ) , gemcitabine ( 16 % ) , paclitaxel ( 15 % ) , and etoposide ( 12 % ) .
Table 11 Treatment Regimens in Adult HEC Trial * Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Fosaprepitant Regimen Fosaprepitant for injection 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy none none none Oral dexamethasone † 12 mg 8 mg 8 mg twice daily 8 mg twice daily Ondansetron Ondansetron ‡ none none none Oral aprepitant Regimen Aaprepitant capsules 125 mg 80 mg 80 mg none Oral dexamethasone § 12 mg 8 mg 8 mg 8 mg Ondansetron Ondansetron ‡ none none none * Fosaprepitant for injection placebo , fosaprepitant capsules placebo and dexamethasone placebo ( in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 ) were used to maintain blinding .
† Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
Dexamethasone was also administered in the evenings on Days 3 and 4 .
The 12 mg dose of dexamethasone on Day 1 and the 8 mg once daily dose on Day 2 reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the fosaprepitant for injection regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
‡ Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trials of fosaprepitant .
Although this dose was used in clinical trials , this is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
§ Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in the morning on Days 2 through 4 .
The 12 mg dose of dexamethasone on Day 1 and the 8 mg once daily dose on Days 2 through 4 reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the oral aprepitant regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The efficacy of fosaprepitant for injection was evaluated based on the primary and secondary endpoints listed in Table 12 and was shown to be non - inferior to that of the 3 - day oral aprepitant regimen with regard to complete response in each of the evaluated phases .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for complete response in the overall phase was 7 % .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for complete response in the delayed phase was 7 . 3 % .
The pre - specified non - inferiority margin for no vomiting in the overall phase was 8 . 2 % .
Table 12 Percent of Adult Patients Receiving HEC Responding by Treatment Group and Phase — Cycle 1 ENDPOINTS Fosaprepitant for Injection Regimen ( N = 1106 ) * % Oral Aprepitant Regimen ( N = 1134 ) * % Difference † ( 95 % CI ) PRIMARY ENDPOINT Complete Response ‡ Overall § 71 . 9 72 . 3 - 0 . 4 ( - 4 . 1 , 3 . 3 ) SECONDARY ENDPOINTS Complete Response ‡ Delayed phase ¶ 74 . 3 74 . 2 0 . 1 ( - 3 . 5 , 3 . 7 ) No Vomiting Overall § 72 . 9 74 . 6 - 1 . 7 ( - 5 . 3 , 2 . 0 ) * N : Number of patients included in the primary analysis of complete response .
† Difference and Confidence interval ( CI ) were calculated using the method proposed by Miettinen and Nurminen and adjusted for Gender .
‡ Complete Response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy .
§ Overall = 0 to 120 hours post - initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy .
¶ Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post - initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy .
14 . 2 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC in Adults In a randomized , parallel , double - blind , active comparator - controlled study , fosaprepitant for injection 150 mg as a single intravenous infusion ( N = 502 ) in combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone ( fosaprepitant regimen ) was compared with ondansetron and dexamethasone alone ( standard therapy ) ( N = 498 ) ( see Table 13 ) in patients receiving a MEC regimen .
Patient demographics were similar between the two treatment groups .
Of the total 1 , 000 patients included in the efficacy analysis , 41 % were men , 84 % White , 4 % Asian , 1 % American Indian / Alaska Native , 2 % Black , 10 % Multi - Racial , and 19 % Hispanic / Latino ethnicity .
Patient ages ranged from 23 to 88 years of age , with a mean age of 60 years .
The most commonly administered MEC chemotherapeutic agents were carboplatin ( 51 % ) , oxaliplatin ( 24 % ) , and cyclophosphamide ( 12 % ) .
Table 13 Treatment Regimens in Adult MEC Trial * Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Fosaprepitant Regimen Fosaprepitant for Injection 150 mg intravenously over 20 to 30 minutes approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy none none Oral Dexamethasone † 12 mg none none Oral Ondansetron ‡ 8 mg for 2 doses none none Standard Therapy Oral Dexamethasone 20 mg none none Oral Ondansetron ‡ 8 mg for 2 doses 8 mg twice daily 8 mg twice daily * Fosaprepitant for injection placebo and dexamethasone placebo ( on Day 1 ) were used to maintain blinding .
† Dexamethasone was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 .
The 12 mg dose reflects a dosage adjustment to account for a drug interaction with the fosaprepitant for injection regimen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
‡ The firstondansetron dose was administered 30 to 60 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and the second dose was administered 8 hours after first ondansetron dose .
The primary endpoint was complete response ( defined as no vomiting and no rescue therapy ) in the delayed phase ( 25 to 120 hours ) of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting .
The results by treatment group are shown in Table 14 .
Table 14 Percent of Adult Patients Receiving MEC Responding by Treatment Group ENDPOINTS Fosaprepitant for Injection Regimen ( N = 502 ) * % Standard Therapy Regimen ( N = 498 ) * % P - Value Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) PRIMARY ENDPOINT Complete Response † Delayed phase ‡ 78 . 9 68 . 5 < 0 . 001 10 . 4 ( 5 . 1 , 15 . 9 ) * N : Number of patients included in the intention to treat population .
† Complete Response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy .
‡ Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post - initiation of chemotherapy .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Single - dose glass vial containing 150 mg of fosaprepitant as a white lyophilized powder or cake for reconstitution .
Supplied as follows : NDC68001 - 421 - 22 1 vial per carton .
Storage Fosaprepitant for injection vials must be refrigerated , store at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
The reconstituted final drug solution is stable for 24 hours at ambient room temperature [ at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , have been reported in patients taking fosaprepitant for injection .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction , such as hives , rash and itching , skin peeling or sores , flushing , difficulty in breathing or swallowing , or dizziness , rapid or weak heartbeat or feeling faint [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Infusion Site Reactions Advise patients to seek medical attention if they experience new or worsening signs or symptoms of an infusion site reaction , such as erythema , edema , pain , necrosis , vasculitis , or thrombophlebitis at or near the infusion site [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to discuss all medications they are taking , including other prescription , non - prescription medication or herbal products [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Warfarin : Instruct patients on chronic warfarin therapy to follow instructions from their healthcare provider regarding blood draws to monitor their INR during the 2 - week period , particularly at 7 to 10 days , following initiation of fosaprepitant for injection with each chemotherapy cycle [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hormonal Contraceptives : Advise patients that administration of fosaprepitant for injection may reduce the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives .
Instruct patients to use effective alternative or back - up methods of contraception ( such as condoms and spermicides ) during treatment with fosaprepitant for injection and for 1 month following administration of fosaprepitant for injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
All registered trademarks in this document are the property of their respective owners .
Fosaprepitant for Injection 150 mg Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited . , Survey No . 143 - 148 , 150 & 151 , Dundigal Gandimaisamma Mandal , Medchal - Malkajgiri Dist . , Hyderabad 500043 , Telangana , India .
ML No . 103 / AP / RR / 97 / F / R For BluePoint Laboratories Revised : Oct 2019 Patient Information Fosaprepitant ( fos ” a pre ’ pi tant ) for injection Read this Patient Information before you start receiving fosaprepitant for injection and each time you are scheduled to receive fosaprepitant for injection .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is fosaprepitantfor injection ?
Fosaprepitant for injection is a prescription medicine used with other medicines that treat nausea and vomiting in patients 18 years of age and older to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by certain anti - cancer ( chemotherapy ) medicines .
• • Fosaprepitant for injection is not used to treat nausea and vomiting that you already have .
• • It is not known if fosaprepitant for injection is safe and effective in children less than 6 months of age .
Who should not receive fosaprepitant for injection ?
Do not receive fosaprepitant for injection if you : • • are allergic to fosaprepitant , aprepitant , or any of the ingredients in fosaprepitant for injection .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in fosaprepitant for injection .
• • are taking pimozide ( ORAP ® ) What should I tell my healthcare provider before receiving fosaprepitant for injection ? Before receiving fosaprepitant for injection , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • have liver problems • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if fosaprepitant for injection can harm your unborn baby .
• oWomen who use birth control medicines containing hormones to prevent pregnancy ( birth control pills , skin patches , implants , and certain IUDs ) should also use a backup method of birth control that does not contain hormones , such as condoms and spermicides , during treatment with fosaprepitant for injection and for 1 month after receiving fosaprepitant for injection .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if fosaprepitant for injection passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you receive fosaprepitant for injection .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Fosaprepitant for injection may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way fosaprepitant for injection works , causing serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How will I receive fosaprepitant for injection ?
Adults18 years of age and older : Fosaprepitant for injection will be given on Day 1 of chemotherapy treatment .
It will be given to you by intravenous ( IV ) infusion in your vein about 50 to 60 minutes before you start your chemotherapy treatment .
If you take the blood thinner medicine warfarin sodium ( COUMADIN ® , JANTOVEN ® ) , your healthcare provider may do blood tests after you receive fosaprepitant for injection to check your blood clotting .
What are the possible side effects of fosaprepitant for injection ?
Fosaprepitant for injection may cause serious side effects , including : • • Serious allergic reactions .
Allergic reactions can happen with fosaprepitant for injection and may be serious .
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have hives , rash , itching , flushing or redness of your face or skin , trouble breathing or swallowing , dizziness , a rapid or weak heartbeat , or you feel faint during or soon after you receive fosaprepitant for injection , as you may need emergency medical care .
• • Severe skin reactions , which may include rash , skin peeling , or sores , may occur .
• • Infusion site reactions ( ISR ) at or near the infusion site have happened with fosaprepitant for Injection .
Most severe ISR have happened with a certain type of chemotherapy medicine that can burn or blister your skin ( vesicant ) with side effects , including pain , swelling and redness .
Death of skin tissue ( necrosis ) has happened in some people getting this type of chemotherapy medicine .
Most ISR can happen with the first , second , or third dose and some can last up to 2 weeks or longer .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any infusion site side effects .
In adults , the most common side effects of fosaprepitant for injection include : • • tiredness • • diarrhea • • low white blood cell and red blood cell counts • • weakness • • feeling weak or numb in your arms and legs • • painful , difficult , or changes in your digestion ( dyspepsia ) • • urinary tract infection • • pain in your arms and legs Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of fosaprepitant for injection .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of fosaprepitant for injection .
If you would like more information about fosaprepitant for injection , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about fosaprepitant for injection that is written for health professionals .
For more information about fosaprepitant for injection call 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or go to www . apotex . com .
What are the ingredients in fosaprepitant for injection ?
Active ingredient : fosaprepitant Inactive ingredients : edetate disodium , lactose anhydrous , polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( for pH adjustment ) Pediatric use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s Emend ( fosaprepitant ) for injection .
However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
All registered trademarks in this document are the property of their respective owners .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Fosaprepitant for Injection 150 mg Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited . , Survey No . 143 - 148 , 150 & 151 , Dundigal Gandimaisamma Mandal , Medchal - Malkajgiri Dist . , Hyderabad 500043 , Telangana , India .
ML No . 103 / AP / RR / 97 / F / R For BluePoint Laboratories Revised : Oct 2019 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION - VIAL NDC 68001 - 421 - 22 Fosaprepitant for Injection 150 mg per vial Single - dose Vial Discard Unused Portion Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION - CARTON NDC 68001 - 421 - 22 Fosaprepitant for Injection 150 mg per vial * Rx only One Single - dose Vial Discard Unused Portion STERILE LYOPHILIZED POWDER FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER RECONSTITUTION AND DILUTION DO NOT USE WITH SOLUTIONS CONTAINING DIVALENT CATIONS ( e . g . , Ca2 + , Mg2 + ) INCLUDING LACTATED RINGER ' S SOLUTION AND HARTMANN ' S SOLUTION .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
