DESCRIPTION AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS FOR ACUTE MANAGEMENT OF VENTRICULAR ARRHYTHMIAS Ansyr ® Plastic Syringe LifeShield ® Abboject ® Syringe Rx only Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of an antiarrhythmic agent administered intravenously by either direct injection or continuous infusion .
It is available in various concentrations with the following characteristics : [ MULTIMEDIA ] May contain sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
Injections containing 10 mg / mL ( 1 % ) contain sodium chloride 7 mg and injections containing 20 mg / mL ( 2 % ) lidocaine hydrochloride contain sodium chloride 6 mg to adjust tonicity .
Single - dose solutions contain no preservative and unused portions must be discarded after use .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride , USP is chemically designated 2 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 ’ , 6 ’ - acetoxylidide monohydrochloride monohydrate , a white powder freely soluble in water .
The molecular formula is C14H22N2O • HCl • H2O .
The molecular weight is 288 . 82 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The semi - rigid vial used for the plastic vials is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The plastic syringe is molded from a specially formulated polypropylene .
Water permeates from inside the container at an extremely slow rate which will have an insignificant effect on solution concentration over the expected shelf life .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the syringe material .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action and Electrophysiology : Studies of the effects of therapeutic concentrations of lidocaine on the electrophysiological properties of mammalian Purkinje fibers have shown that lidocaine attenuates phase 4 diastolic depolarization , decreases automaticity and causes a decrease or no change in excitability and membrane responsiveness .
Action potential duration and effective refractory period of Purkinje fibers are decreased while the ratio of effective refractory period to action potential duration is increased .
Action potential duration and effective refractory period of ventricular muscle are also decreased .
Effective refractory period of the AV node may increase , decrease or remain unchanged and atrial effective refractory period is unchanged .
Lidocaine raises the ventricular fibrillation threshold .
No significant interactions between lidocaine and the autonomic nervous system have been described and consequently lidocaine has little or no effect on autonomic tone .
Clinical electrophysiological studies with lidocaine have demonstrated no change in sinus node recovery time or sinoatrial conduction time .
AV nodal conduction time is unchanged or shortened and His - Purkinje conduction time is unchanged .
Hemodynamics : At therapeutic doses , lidocaine has minimal hemodynamic effects in normal subjects and in patients with heart disease .
Lidocaine has been shown to cause no , or minimal decrease in ventricular contractility , cardiac output , arterial pressure or heart rate .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Lidocaine is rapidly metabolized by the liver and less than 10 % of a dose is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Oxidative Ndealkylation , a major pathway of metabolism , results in the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological activities of these metabolites are similar to but less potent than lidocaine .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The elimination half - life of lidocaine following an intravenous bolus injection is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
There are data that indicate that the half - life may be 3 hours or longer following infusions of greater than 24 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that alters liver function , including changes in liver blood flow , which could result from severe congestive heart failure or shock may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be twofold or more greater in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics , but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Therapeutic effects of lidocaine are generally associated with plasma levels of 6 to 25 mmole / L ( 1 . 5 to 6 mg free base per mL ) .
The blood to plasma distribution ratio is approximately 0 . 84 .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing plasma levels above 6 mg free base per mL .
The plasma protein binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 mg free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
In addition to lidocaine concentration , the binding is dependent on the plasma concentration of the a - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine readily crosses the placental and blood - brain barriers .
Dialysis has negligible effects on the kinetics of lidocaine .
Indications and Usage Lidocaine hydrochloride injection administered intravenously or intramuscularly , is specifically indicated in the acute management of ventricular arrhythmias such as those occurring in relation to acute myocardial infarction , or during cardiac manipulation , such as cardiac surgery .
Contraindications Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
Lidocaine hydrochloride should not be used in patients with Stokes - Adams syndrome , Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or with severe degrees of sinoatrial , atrioventricular or intraventricular block in the absence of an artificial pacemaker .
Warnings IN ORDER TO MANAGE POSSIBLE ADVERSE REACTIONS , RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS SHOULD BE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE WHEN LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION IS USED .
Systemic toxicity may result in manifestations of central nervous system depression ( sedation ) or irritability ( twitching ) , which may progress to frank convulsions accompanied by respiratory depression and / or arrest .
Early recognition of premonitory signs , assurance of adequate oxygenation and , where necessary , establishment of artificial airway with ventilatory support are essential to management of this problem .
Should convulsions persist despite ventilatory therapy with oxygen , small increments of anticonvulsant drugs may be used intravenously .
Examples of such agents include benzodiazepines ( e . g . , diazepam ) , ultrashort - acting barbiturates ( e . g . , thiopental or thiamylal ) or a short - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , pentobarbital or secobarbital ) .
If the patient is under anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( e . g . , succinylcholine ) may be used .
Longer acting drugs should be used only when recurrent convulsions are evidenced .
Should circulatory depression occur , vasopressors may be used .
Constant electrocardiographic monitoring is essential to the proper administration of lidocaine hydrochloride .
Signs of excessive depression of cardiac electrical activity such as sinus node dysfunction , prolongation of the P - R interval and QRS complex or the appearance or aggravation of arrhythmias , should be followed by flow adjustment and , if necessary , prompt cessation of the intravenous infusion of this agent .
Occasionally , acceleration of ventricular rate may occur when lidocaine hydrochloride is administered to patients with atrial flutter or fibrillation .
Precautions 1 .
General : Caution should be employed in the use of lidocaine hydrochloride in patients with severe liver or kidney disease because accumulation of the drug or metabolites may occur .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP should be used with caution in the treatment of patients with hypovolemia , severe congestive heart failure , shock and all forms of heart block .
In patients with sinus bradycardia or incomplete heart block , the administration of lidocaine hydrochloride intravenously for the elimination of ventricular ectopic beats without prior acceleration in heart rate ( e . g . , by atropine , isoproterenol or electric pacing ) may promote more frequent and serious ventricular arrhythmias or complete heart block .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Dosage should be reduced for pediatric patients and for debilitated and / or elderly patients , commensurate with their age and physical status .
The safety of amide local anesthetic agents in patients with genetic predisposition of malignant hyperthermia has not been fully assessed ; therefore , lidocaine should be used with caution in such patients .
In hospital environments where drugs known to be triggering agents for malignant hyperthermia ( fulminant hypermetabolism ) are administered , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
It is not known whether lidocaine may trigger this reaction ; however , large doses resulting in significant plasma concentrations , as may be achievedby intravenous infusion , pose potential risk to these individuals .
Recognition of early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the triggering agent and institution of treatment including oxygen therapy , supportive measures and dantrolene ( for details see dantrolene package insert ) .
2 .
Patient Information : The patient should be advised of the possible occurrence of the experiences listed under ADVERSEREACTIONS .
3 .
Laboratory Tests : None known .
4 .
Drug Interactions : Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP should be used with caution in patients with digitalis toxicity accompanied by atrioventricular block .
Concomitant use of beta - blocking agents or cimetidine may reduce hepatic blood flow and thereby reduce lidocaine clearance .
The concomitant use of these two agents may cause an increased incidence of adverse reactions , including central nervous system adverse reactions such as seizure .
Lidocaine and tocainide are pharmacodynamically similar .
5 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility of lidocaine HCl have not been conducted .
6 .
Pregnancy : TeratogenicEffects : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the maximum human doses and have revealed no significant findings .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
7 .
Labor and Delivery : The effects of lidocaine HCl on the mother and the fetus , when used in the management of cardiac arrhythmias during labor and delivery are not known .
Lidocaine readily crosses the placental barrier .
8 .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
9 .
Pediatric Use : Controlled clinical studies have not been conducted in the pediatric population to establish safety and efficacy in this population ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Adverse Reactions Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
Adverse experiences may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported .
The adverse experiences under Central Nervous System and Cardiovascular System are listed , in general , in a progression from mild to severe .
1 .
Central Nervous System : CNS reactions are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by light - headedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory reactions may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case , the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness , merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
2 .
Cardiovascular System : Cardiovascular reactions are usually depressant in nature and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
3 .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
4 .
Neurologic : There have been reported cases of permanent injury to extraocular muscles requiring surgical repair following retrobulbar administration .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Although specific studies have not been conducted , lidocaine HCl has been used clinically without evidence of abuse of this drug or of psychological or physical dependence as a result of its use .
Overdosage Overdosage of lidocaine HCl usually results in signs of central nervous system or cardiovascular toxicity .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Should convulsions or signs of respiratory depression and arrest develop , the patency of the airway and adequacy of ventilation must be assured immediately .
Should convulsions persist despite ventilatory therapy with oxygen , small increments of anticonvulsive agents may be given intravenously .
Examples of such agents include a benzodiazepine ( e . g . , diazepam ) , an ultrashort - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , thiopental or thiamylal ) or a short - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , pentobarbital or secobarbital ) .
If the patient is under general anesthesia , a short - acting muscle relaxant ( e . g . , succinylcholine ) may be administered .
Should circulatory depression occur , vasopressors may be used .
Should cardiac arrest occur , standard CPR procedures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage from lidocaine HCl .
Dosage & Administration Adults : Single Direct Intravenous Injection ( bolus ) : ONLY THE 5 mL , 50 MG or 100 MG DOSAGE SIZES should be used for direct intravenous injection .
The usual dose is 50 to 100 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride ( 0 . 70 to 1 . 4 mg / kg ; 0 . 32 to 0 . 63 mg / lb ) administered intravenously under ECG monitoring .
This dose may be administered at the rate of approximately 25 to 50 mg / min ( 0 . 35 to 0 . 70 mg / kg / min ; 0 . 16 to 0 . 32 mg / lb / min ) .
Sufficient time should be allowed to enable a slow circulation to carry the drug to the site of action .
If the initial injection of 50 to 100 mg does not produce a desired response , a second dose may be injected after five minutes .
NO MORE THAN 200 TO 300 MG OF LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED DURING A ONE HOUR PERIOD .
Continuous Intravenous Infusion : Following bolus administration , intravenous infusions of lidocaine hydrochloride may be initiated at the rate of 1 to 4 mg / min of lidocaine hydrochloride ( 0 . 014 to 0 . 057 mg / kg / min ; 0 . 006 to 0 . 026 mg / lb / min ) .
The rate of intravenous infusions should be reassessed as soon as the patient ' s basic cardiac rhythm appears to be stable or at the earliest signs of toxicity .
It should rarely be necessary to continue intravenous infusions of lidocaine for prolonged periods .
When administering lidocaine hydrochloride ( or any potent medication ) by continuous intravenous infusion , it is advisable to use a precision volume control I . V . set .
Pediatric : Controlled clinical studies in the pediatric population to establish dosing schedules have not been conducted .
The American Heart Association ' s Standards and Guidelines recommends a bolus dose of 1 mg / kg , and an infusion rate of between 20 - 50 mcg / kg / min for prolonged therapy .
When drug clearance is reduced , as in patients with shock , congestive heart failure or cardiac arrest , the infusion rate should not exceed 20 mcg / kg / min .
NOTE : RegardingProlongedInfusions : There are data that indicate the half - life may be 3 hours or longer following infusions of greater than 24 hours in duration .
Do not use if solution is discolored or cloudy .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent or broken by hand .
How Supplied Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is supplied as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ** Abboject ® Unit of Use Syringe with Male Luer Lock Adapter and protected needle .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 1323 - 05 5 mL Ansyr ® Plastic Syringe 10 in a Carton NDC 0404 - 9894 - 05 1 5 mL Ansyr ® Plastic Syringe in a bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 1323 - 15 ) 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) 100 mg Total NDC 0409 - 9137 - 05 5 mL Ansyr ® Plastic Syringe NDC 0404 - 9889 - 05 1 5 mL Ansyr ® Plastic Syringe in a bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 9137 - 11 ) 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) 50 mg Total NDC 0409 - 4903 - 34 LifeShield ® Abboject ® Syringe with Male Luer Lock Adapter NDC 0404 - 9892 - 05 1 5 mL Lifeshield ® Abboject ® Syringe with Male Luer Lock Adapter in a bag ( Syringe bears 0409 - 4903 - 11 ) 2 % ( 20 mg / mL ) 100 mg Total NDC 0409 - 4904 - 34 LifeShield ® Abboject ® Syringe with Male Luer Lock Adapter NDC 0404 - 9890 - 05 1 5 mL Lifeshield ® Abboject ® Syringe with Male Luer Lock Adapter in a bag ( Syringe bears NDC 0409 - 4904 - 11 ) 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) 50 mg Total Distributed by : Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Abboject ® is a trademark of the Abbott group of companies .
LIFESHIELD ® is the trademark of ICU Medical , Inc . and is used under license .
LAB - 1021 - 3 . 0 Revised : 04 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
