Drug Facts Active Ingredient Minoxidil 5 % Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of the carton ) .
Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire of flame .
Do not use if • you are a women • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton on your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % minoxidil topical solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss ; • you hair loss is sudden and / or patchy ; • you do not know the reason for your hair loss ; • you are under 18 years of age ; do not use on babies and children ; • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful ; • you use other medicines on the scalp .
Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body ; • avoid contact with the eyes , in case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amount of cool tap water : • soem people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture ; • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results ; • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
this product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs ; • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs ; • your hands or feet swell ; • scalp irritation or redness occurs ; • unwanted facial hair growth occurs ; • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months .
May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
• Using more or more often will not improve results .
• Continued use is necessary of hair loss will begin again .
Other Information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton ; • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet ; • keep the carton .
It contains important information ; • store at USP Controlled Room Temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inacitve Ingredients alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water Questions ?
Call 1 ( 888 ) 272 - 9599 or visit www . capillus . com Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
