For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % contains hydrocortisone valerate , 11 , 2 l - dihydroxy - 17 - [ ( l - oxopentyl ) oxy ] - ( 11β ) - pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , hydrocortisone valerate is C26H38O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone valerate has a molecular weight of 446 . 58 .
It is a white to off white , crystalline powder , soluble in ethanol , chloroform and acetone , slightly soluble in isopropanol and insoluble in water .
Each gram of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % contains 2 mg hydrocortisone valerate in a hydrophilic base composed of carbomer 980 , dibasic sodium phosphate , methylparaben , polyoxyl 2 stearyl ether , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , steareth - 100 , stearyl alcohol and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , hydrocortisone valerate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in adult patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % has produced mild , reversible adrenal suppression in adult patients when used under occlusion for 5 days , 15 grams twice a day over 25 to 60 % body surface area or when used three times a day over 20 to 30 % body surface area to treat psoriasis for 3 - 4 weeks .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for these products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS -- Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should not be applied in the diaper areas as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• This medication should not be used on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of hydrocortisone valerate .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % was shown to be non - mutagenic in the Ames - Salmonella / Microsome Plate Test .
There are no studies which assess the effects of hydrocortisone valerate on fertility and general reproductive performance .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects , Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Dermal embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in rabbits and rats with hydrocortisone valerate cream , 0 . 2 % .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream , 0 . 2 % , was administered topically for 4 hours / day , rather than the preferred 24 hours / day , during the period of organogenesis in rats ( gestational days 5 - 16 ) and rabbits ( gestational days 6 - 19 ) .
Topical doses of hydrocortisone valerate up to 9 mg / kg / day ( 54 mg / m2 / day ) were administered to rats and 5 mg / kg / day ( 60 mg / m2 / day ) were administered to rabbits .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , a significant increase in delayed skeletal ossification in fetuses was noted at 9 mg / kg / day [ 2 . 5 X the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on body surface area ( BSA ) comparisons ] in the rat study .
No malformations in the fetuses were noted at 9 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 5 X MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) in the rat study .
Indicators of embryofetal toxicity , significant decrease in fetal weight at 2 mg / kg / day ( 1 X MRHD based on BSA ) and a significant increase in post - implantation loss and embryo resorption at 5 mg / kg ( 3 X MRHD based on BSA ) , were noted in the rabbit study .
A significant increase in delayed skeletal ossification in fetuses was noted at 5 mg / kg / day ( 3 X the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) in the rabbit study .
Increased numbers of fetal malformations ( e . g . , cleft palate , omphalocele and clubbed feet ) were noted at 5 mg / kg / day ( 3 X MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) in the rabbit study .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety of this product in pediatric patients has not been established .
There is no data on adrenal suppression and / or growth suppression .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at a greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels , and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age ( n = 29 ) , the incidence of adverse experiences , regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % , was approximately 21 % .
Reported reactions included stinging ( 10 % ) , eczema ( 7 % ) , fungal infection ( 3 % ) , and gastrointestinal disorder ( 3 % ) .
In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age ( n = 153 ) , the incidence of adverse experiences , regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % , was approximately 10 % .
Reported reactions included stinging ( 3 % ) , burning skin ( 2 % ) , infection ( Body as a Whole ) ( 2 % ) .
Skin irritation , eczema , pruritus , application site reaction , rash , rash maculopapular , and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1 % .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 922 - 1038 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should be applied to the affected area as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP , 0 . 2 % should not be applied in the diaper area if the patient requires diapers or plastic pants as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream USP , 0 . 2 % , is supplied in the following tube sizes : 15 g NDC 0713 - 0720 - 15 45 g NDC 0713 - 0720 - 37 60 g NDC 0713 - 0720 - 60 STORAGE Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South Plainfield , NJ 07080 Issued 05 / 2020 8 - 0720CPLNC1 VC7396 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0713 - 0720 - 15 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 15 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0720 - 15 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 15 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0720 - 37 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 45 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0720 - 37 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 45 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc . [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0720 - 60 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 60 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0713 - 0720 - 60 Rx only Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream , USP 60 g 0 . 2 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Cosette Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
