Active ingredient : WITCH HAZEL 0 . 1 % Inactive ingredients : Water , Hematie Extract , Topaz , Aluminum Silicate , Zeolite , Tourmaline , Amethyst Powder , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea Butter ) , Sodium Hyaluronate , Palm Kernel Acid / Coconut Acid , Sodium Cocoyl Isothionate , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Seed Exact , Squalane , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Cocamidopropyl Betain , Glycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Lauryl Betaine , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Stearic Acid , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Oil , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Prunus Armeniaca ( Apricot ) Kernel Oil , Titanium Dioxide , Honey Extract , Citric Acid , BHT , Disodium EDTA , Gardenia Florida Fruit Extract , Chaenomeles Sinensis Fruit Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Aloe Ferox Leaf Extract , Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract , Benincase Cerifera Fruit Extract , Phaseolus Angularis Seed Powder , Angelica Keiskei Extract , Bletilla Striata Root Extract , Asparagus Racemosus Root Extract , Scrophularia Nodosa Extract Purpose : It appears to make a moisturizing and elastic skin .
It gives a refreshingness by the pure cleansing .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indication and usage : Gradually increase the amount of lather for sensitive skin .
Use just like any ordinary soap for normal skin .
Do not scrub up excessively .
Keep the soap in dry place after use .
Dosage and administration : Wash with warm or cold water and massage your face gently .
After washing , your skin will be moist for a long time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
