Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purpose Codeine Phosphate [ 1 ] 8 mg Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant [ 1 ] Warning : May be habit forming Uses Temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes and make coughs more productive Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucas ) • chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath , or children who are taking other drugs Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur • product may cause or aggravate constipation If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Take this medication with a full glass of water after each dose to help loosen mucus in the lungs Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 12 teasoonfuls in 24 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours [ 1 ] Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
[ 1 ] Giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor could result in serious side effects .
Other Information Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredients Bitter Mask , Citric Acid , Cotton Candy Flavor , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol .
Questions ?
Comments ?
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 866 - 959 - 4880 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 23359 - 040 - 16 Ninjacof - XG Cotton Candy Flavor CENTURION 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : Centurion Labs , LLC Birmingham , AL 35243 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
