WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue moexipril hydrochloride tablets as soon as possible .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
See WARNINGS : Fetal Toxicity DESCRIPTION Moexipril hydrochloride , USP , the hydrochloride salt of moexipril , is chemically described as [ 3 S - [ 2 [ R * ( R * ) ] , 3 R * ] ] - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenylpropyl ] amino ] - 1 - oxopropyl ] - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 3 - isoquinolinecarboxylic acid , monohydrochloride .
It is a non - sulfhydryl containing precursor of the active angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor moexiprilat and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C27H34N2O7 • HCl M . W . 535 . 04 Moexipril hydrochloride , USP is a fine white to off - white powder .
It is soluble ( about 10 % weight - to - volume ) in distilled water at room temperature .
Moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP are supplied as bisected , coated tablets containing 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg of moexipril hydrochloride , USP for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , moexipril hydrochloride , USP , the tablet core contains the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , pregelatinized starch and sodium bicarbonate .
The film coating of the 7 . 5 mg tablet contains : hypromellose , iron oxide red , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
The film coating of the 15 mg tablet contains : hypromellose , iron oxide red , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP meet USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Moexipril hydrochloride is a prodrug for moexiprilat , which inhibits ACE in humans and animals .
The mechanism through which moexiprilat lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily inhibition of ACE activity .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of the inactive decapeptide angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II is a potent peripheral vasoconstrictor that also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex and provides negative feedback on renin secretion .
ACE is identical to kininase II , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin , an endothelium - dependent vasodilator .
Moexiprilat is about 1000 times as potent as moexipril in inhibiting ACE and kininase II .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased angiotensin II formation , leading to decreased vasoconstriction , increased plasma renin activity , and decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter results in diuresis and natriuresis and a small increase in serum potassium concentration ( mean increases of about 0 . 25 mEq / L were seen when moexipril was used alone , see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of moexipril remains to be elucidated .
Although the principal mechanism of moexipril in blood pressure reduction is believed to be through the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , ACE inhibitors have some effect on blood pressure even in apparent low - renin hypertension .
As is the case with other ACE inhibitors , however , the antihypertensive effect of moexipril is considerably smaller in black patients , a predominantly low - renin population , than in non - black hypertensive patients .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Pharmacokinetics Moexipril ’ s antihypertensive activity is almost entirely due to its deesterified metabolite , moexiprilat .
Bioavailability of oral moexipril is about 13 % compared to intravenous ( I . V . ) moexipril ( both measuring the metabolite moexiprilat ) , and is markedly affected by food , which reduces the peak plasma level ( Cmax ) and AUC ( see Absorption ) .
Moexipril should therefore be taken in a fasting state .
The time of peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) of moexiprilat is about 1 ½ hours and elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) is estimated at 2 to 9 hours in various studies , the variability reflecting a complex elimination pattern that is not simply exponential .
Like all ACE inhibitors , moexiprilat has a prolonged terminal elimination phase , presumably reflecting slow release of drug bound to the ACE .
Accumulation of moexiprilat with repeated dosing is minimal , about 30 % , compatible with a functional elimination t1 / 2 of about 12 hours .
Over the dose range of 7 . 5 to 30 mg , pharmacokinetics are approximately dose proportional .
Absorption Moexipril is incompletely absorbed , with bioavailability as moexiprilat of about 13 % .
Bioavailability varies with formulation and food intake which reduces Cmax and AUC by about 70 % and 40 % respectively after the ingestion of a low - fat breakfast or by 80 % and 50 % respectively after the ingestion of a high - fat breakfast .
Distribution The clearance ( CL ) for moexipril is 441 mL / min and for moexiprilat 232 mL / min with a t1 / 2 of 1 . 3 and 9 . 8 hours , respectively .
Moexiprilat is about 50 % protein bound .
The volume of distribution of moexiprilat is about 183 liters .
Metabolism and Excretion Moexipril is relatively rapidly converted to its active metabolite moexiprilat , but persists longer than some other ACE inhibitor prodrugs , such that its t1 / 2 is over one hour and it has a significant AUC .
Both moexipril and moexiprilat are converted to diketopiperazine derivatives and unidentified metabolites .
After I . V . administration of moexipril , about 40 % of the dose appears in urine as moexiprilat , about 26 % as moexipril , with small amounts of the metabolites ; about 20 % of the I . V . dose appears in feces , principally as moexiprilat .
After oral administration , only about 7 % of the dose appears in urine as moexiprilat , about 1 % as moexipril , with about 5 % as other metabolites .
Fifty - two percent of the dose is recovered in feces as moexiprilat and 1 % as moexipril .
Special Populations Decreased renal function The effective elimination of t1 / 2 and AUC of both moexipril and moexiprilat are increased with decreasing renal function .
There is insufficient information available to characterize this relationship fully , but at creatinine clearances in the range of 10 to 40 mL / min , the t1 / 2 of moexiprilat is increased by a factor of 3 to 4 .
Decreased hepatic function In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis given single 15 mg doses of moexipril , the Cmax of moexipril was increased by about 50 % and the AUC increased by about 120 % , while the Cmax for moexiprilat was decreased by about 50 % and the AUC increased by almost 300 % .
Elderly patients In elderly male subjects ( 65 to 80 years old ) with clinically normal renal and hepatic function , the AUC and Cmax of moexiprilat is about 30 % greater than those of younger subjects ( 19 to 42 years old ) .
Pharmacokinetic Interactions With Other Drugs No clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when moexipril hydrochloride was administered concomitantly with hydrochlorothiazide , digoxin , or cimetidine .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effect Single and multiple doses of 15 mg or more of moexipril hydrochloride tablets gives sustained inhibition of plasma ACE activity of 80 to 90 % , beginning within 2 hours and lasting 24 hours ( 80 % ) .
In controlled trials , the peak effects of orally administered moexipril increased with the dose administered over a dose range of 7 . 5 to 60 mg , given once a day .
Antihypertensive effects were first detectable about 1 hour after dosing , with a peak effect between 3 and 6 hours after dosing .
Just before dosing ( i . e . , at trough ) , the antihypertensive effects were less prominently related to dose and the antihypertensive effect tended to diminish during the 24 hour dosing interval when the drug was administered once a day .
In multiple dose studies in the dose range of 7 . 5 to 30 mg once daily , moexipril hydrochloride tablets lowered sitting diastolic and systolic blood pressure effects at trough by 3 to 6 mmHg and 4 to 11 mmHg more than placebo , respectively .
There was a tendency toward increased response with higher doses over this range .
These effects are typical of ACE inhibitors but , to date , there are no trials of adequate size comparing moexipril with other antihypertensive agents .
The trough diastolic blood pressure effects of moexipril were approximately 3 to 6 mmHg in various studies .
Generally , higher doses of moexipril leave a greater fraction of the peak blood pressure effect still present at trough .
During dose titration , any decision as to the adequacy of a dosing regimen should be based on trough blood pressure measurements .
If diastolic blood pressure control is not adequate at the end of the dosing interval , the dose can be increased or given as a divided ( BID ) regimen .
During chronic therapy , the antihypertensive effect of any dose of moexipril hydrochloride is generally evident within 2 weeks of treatment , with maximal reduction after 4 weeks .
The antihypertensive effects of moexipril hydrochloride have been proven to continue during therapy for up to 24 months .
Moexipril hydrochloride , like other ACE inhibitors , is less effective in decreasing trough blood pressures in blacks than in non - blacks .
Placebo - corrected trough group mean diastolic blood pressure effects in blacks in the proposed dose range varied between + 1 to - 3 mmHg compared with responses in non - blacks of - 4 to - 6 mmHg .
The effectiveness of moexipril hydrochloride was not significantly influenced by patient age , gender , or weight .
Moexipril hydrochloride has been shown to have antihypertensive activity in both pre - and postmenopausal women who have participated in placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Formal interaction studies with moexipril have not been carried out with antihypertensive agents other than thiazide diuretics .
In these studies , the added effect of moexipril was similar to its effect as monotherapy .
In general , ACE inhibitors have less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because both work by inhibiting the renin - angiotensin system .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated for treatment of patients with hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
In using moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP , consideration should be given to the fact that another ACE inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen - vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP do not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS ) .
In considering use of moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP , it should be noted that in controlled trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non - blacks .
In addition , ACE inhibitors ( for which adequate data are available ) cause a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients ( see WARNINGS , Angioedema ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Moexipril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with moexipril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors , including moexipril hydrochloride , may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema involving the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and / or larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors , including moexipril hydrochloride .
Symptoms suggestive of angioedema or facial edema occurred in < 0 . 5 % of moexipril - treated patients in placebo - controlled trials .
None of the cases were considered life - threatening and all resolved either without treatment or with medication ( antihistamines or glucocorticoids ) .
One patient treated with hydrochlorothiazide alone experienced laryngeal edema .
No instances of angioedema were reported in placebo - treated patients .
In cases of angioedema , treatment should be promptly discontinued and the patient carefully observed until the swelling disappears .
In instances where swelling has been confined to the face and lips , the condition has generally resolved without treatment , although antihistamines have been useful in relieving symptoms .
Angioedema associated with involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx , may be fatal due to airway obstruction .
Appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) and / or measures to ensure a patent airway , should be promptly provided ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions did not occur when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared when the ACE inhibitors were inadvertently readministered .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension Moexipril hydrochloride can cause symptomatic hypotension , although , as with other ACE inhibitors , this is unusual in uncomplicated hypertensive patients treated with moexipril hydrochloride alone .
Symptomatic hypotension was seen in 0 . 5 % of patients given moexipril and led to discontinuation of therapy in about 0 . 25 % .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been salt - and volume - depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume - and salt - depletion should be corrected and , in general , diuretics stopped , before initiating therapy with moexipril hydrochloride ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia , and rarely , with acute renal failure and death .
In these patients , moexipril hydrochloride therapy should be started under close medical supervision , and patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of moexipril or an accompanying diuretic is increased .
Care in avoiding hypotension should also be taken in patients with ischemic heart disease , aortic stenosis , or cerebrovascular disease , in whom an excessive decrease in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or a cerebrovascular accident .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position and , if necessary , treated with an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
Moexipril hydrochloride treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another ACE inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in patients with uncomplicated hypertension , but more frequently in hypertensive patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen - vascular disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Although there were no instances of severe neutropenia ( absolute neutrophil count < 500 / mm3 ) among patients given moexipril hydrochloride , as with other ACE inhibitors , monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered for patients who have collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Available data from clinical trials of moexipril hydrochloride are insufficient to show that moexipril hydrochloride does not cause agranulocytosis at rates similar to captopril .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue moexipril hydrochloride as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue moexipril hydrochloride , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to moexipril hydrochloride for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
No embryotoxic , fetotoxic , or teratogenic effects were seen in rats or in rabbits treated with up to 90 . 9 and 0 . 7 times , respectively , the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and sometimes death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibition of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
There is no clinical experience of moexipril hydrochloride in the treatment of hypertension in patients with renal failure .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when moexipril hydrochloride has been given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
There may be a need for dose adjustment of moexipril hydrochloride and / or the discontinuation of the thiazide diuretic .
Evaluation of hypertensive patients should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hypertensive Patients With Congestive Heart Failure In hypertensive patients with severe congestive heart failure , whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including moexipril hydrochloride , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and , rarely , acute renal failure and / or death .
Hypertensive Patients With Renal Artery Stenosis In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine have been observed in some patients following ACE inhibitor therapy .
These increases were almost always reversible upon discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Hyperkalemia In clinical trials , persistent hyperkalemia ( serum potassium above 5 . 4 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 1 . 3 % of hypertensive patients receiving moexipril hydrochloride .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia with ACE inhibitors include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes , which should be used cautiously , if at all , with moexipril hydrochloride ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , moexipril may block the effects of compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs in this setting and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
In controlled trials with moexipril , cough was present in 6 . 1 % of moexipril patients and 2 . 2 % of patients given placebo .
Information for Patients Food Patients should be advised to take moexipril one hour before meals ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , usually occurring early in therapy ( within the first month ) .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of the face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more moexipril hydrochloride until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension Patients should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur with moexipril hydrochloride , especially during the first few days of therapy .
If fainting occurs , the patient should stop taking moexipril hydrochloride and consult the prescribing physician .
All patients should be cautioned that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; patients should be advised to consult their physician if they develop these conditions .
Hyperkalemia Patients should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Neutropenia Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) that could be a sign of neutropenia .
Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to moexipril hydrochloride during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Diuretics Excessive reductions in blood pressure may occur in patients on diuretic therapy when ACE inhibitors are started .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with moexipril hydrochloride can be minimized by discontinuing diuretic therapy for several days or cautiously increasing salt intake before initiation of treatment with moexipril hydrochloride .
If this is not possible , the starting dose of moexipril should be reduced ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics Moexipril hydrochloride can increase serum potassium because it decreases aldosterone secretion .
Use of potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) or potassium supplements concomitantly with ACE inhibitors can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be given with caution and the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored .
Oral Anticoagulants Interaction studies with warfarin failed to identify any clinically important effect on the serum concentrations of the anticoagulant or on its anticoagulant effect .
Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased .
Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including moexipril hydrochloride .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDS , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including moexipril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving moexipril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including moexipril , may be attenuated by NSAIDS .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on moexipril hydrochloride and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with moexipril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with moexipril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
Other Agents No clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when moexipril hydrochloride was administered concomitantly with hydrochlorothiazide , digoxin , or cimetidine .
Moexipril hydrochloride has been used in clinical trials concomitantly with calcium - channel - blocking agents , diuretics , H2 blockers , digoxin , oral hypoglycemic agents , and cholesterol - lowering agents .
There was no evidence of clinically important adverse interactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was detected in long - term studies in mice and rats at doses up to 14 or 27 . 3 times the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) on a mg / m2 basis .
No mutagenicity was detected in the Ames test and microbial reverse mutation assay , with and without metabolic activation , or in an in vivo nucleus anomaly test .
However , increased chromosomal aberration frequency in Chinese hamster ovary cells was detected under metabolic activation conditions at a 20 hour harvest time .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits at oral doses up to 0 . 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis , and in rats up to 90 . 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
No indication of impaired fertility , reproductive toxicity , or teratogenicity was observed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether moexipril hydrochloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when moexipril hydrochloride is given to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to moexipril hydrochloride : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Safety and effectiveness of moexipril hydrochloride in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of moexipril hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Moexipril hydrochloride has been evaluated for safety in more than 2500 patients with hypertension ; more than 250 of these patients were treated for approximately one year .
The overall incidence of reported adverse events was only slightly greater in patients treated with moexipril hydrochloride than patients treated with placebo .
Reported adverse experiences were usually mild and transient , and there were no differences in adverse reaction rates related to gender , race , age , duration of therapy , or total daily dosage within the range of 3 . 75 mg to 60 mg .
Discontinuation of therapy because of adverse experiences was required in 3 . 4 % of patients treated with moexipril hydrochloride and in 1 . 8 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation in patients treated with moexipril hydrochloride were cough ( 0 . 7 % ) and dizziness ( 0 . 4 % ) .
All adverse experiences considered at least possibly related to treatment that occurred at any dose in placebo - controlled trials of once - daily dosing in more than 1 % of patients treated with moexipril hydrochloride alone and that were at least as frequent in the moexipril hydrochloride group as in the placebo group are shown in the following table : ADVERSE EVENTS IN PLACEBO - CONTROLLED STUDIES ADVERSE EVENT MOEXIPRIL HYDROCHLORIDE ( N = 674 ) PLACEBO ( N = 226 ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Cough Increased 41 ( 6 . 1 ) 5 ( 2 . 2 ) Dizziness 29 ( 4 . 3 ) 5 ( 2 . 2 ) Diarrhea 21 ( 3 . 1 ) 5 ( 2 . 2 ) Flu Syndrome 21 ( 3 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Fatigue 16 ( 2 . 4 ) 4 ( 1 . 8 ) Pharyngitis 12 ( 1 . 8 ) 2 ( 0 . 9 ) Flushing 11 ( 1 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 ) Rash 11 ( 1 . 6 ) 2 ( 0 . 9 ) Myalgia 9 ( 1 . 3 ) 0 ( 0 ) Other adverse events occurring in more than 1 % of patients on moexipril that were at least as frequent on placebo include : headache , upper respiratory infection , pain , rhinitis , dyspepsia , nausea , peripheral edema , sinusitis , chest pain , and urinary frequency .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS for discussion of anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema , hypotension , neutropenia / agranulocytosis , second and third trimester fetal / neonatal morbidity and mortality , hyperkalemia , and cough .
Other potentially important adverse experiences reported in controlled or uncontrolled clinical trials in less than 1 % of moexipril patients or that have been attributed to other ACE inhibitors include the following : Cardiovascular Symptomatic hypotension , postural hypotension , or syncope were seen in 9 / 1750 ( 0 . 51 % ) patients ; these reactions led to discontinuation of therapy in controlled trials in 3 / 1254 ( 0 . 24 % ) patients who had received moexipril hydrochloride monotherapy and in 1 / 344 ( 0 . 3 % ) patients who had received moexipril hydrochloride with hydrochlorothiazide ( see PRECAUTIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Other adverse events included angina / myocardial infarction , palpitations , rhythm disturbances , and cerebrovascular accident .
Renal Of hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal disease , 1 % of patients receiving moexipril hydrochloride alone and 2 % of patients receiving moexipril hydrochloride with hydrochlorothiazide experienced increases in serum creatinine to at least 140 % of their baseline values ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain , constipation , vomiting , appetite / weight change , dry mouth , pancreatitis , hepatitis .
Respiratory Bronchospasm , dyspnea , eosinophilic pneumonitis .
Urogenital Renal insufficiency , oliguria .
Dermatologic Apparent hypersensitivity reactions manifested by urticaria , rash , pemphigus , pruritus , photosensitivity , alopecia .
Neurological and Psychiatric Drowsiness , sleep disturbances , nervousness , mood changes , anxiety .
Other Angioedema ( see WARNINGS ) , taste disturbances , tinnitus , sweating , malaise , arthralgia , hemolytic anemia .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Electrolytes Hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyponatremia .
Creatinine and Blood Urea Nitrogen As with other ACE inhibitors , minor increases in blood urea nitrogen or serum creatinine , reversible upon discontinuation of therapy , were observed in approximately 1 % of patients with essential hypertension who were treated with moexipril hydrochloride .
Increases are more likely to occur in patients receiving concomitant diuretics and in patients with compromised renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Other ( Causal Relationship Unknown ) Clinically important changes in standard laboratory tests were rarely associated with moexipril hydrochloride administration .
Elevations of liver enzymes and uric acid have been reported .
In trials , less than 1 % of moexipril - treated patients discontinued moexipril hydrochloride treatment because of laboratory abnormalities .
The incidence of abnormal laboratory values with moexipril was similar to that in the placebo - treated group .
OVERDOSAGE Human overdoses of moexipril have not been reported .
In case reports of overdoses with other ACE inhibitors , hypotension has been the principal adverse effect noted .
Single oral doses of 2 g / kg moexipril were associated with significant lethality in mice .
Rats , however , tolerated single oral doses of up to 3 g / kg .
No data are available to suggest that physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) would accelerate elimination of moexipril and its metabolites .
The dialyzability of moexipril is not known .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of moexipril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of moexipril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat moexipril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
In addition , renal function and serum potassium should be monitored .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The recommended initial dose of moexipril hydrochloride tablets in patients not receiving diuretics is 7 . 5 mg , one hour prior to meals , once daily .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response .
The antihypertensive effect of moexipril hydrochloride tablets may diminish towards the end of the dosing interval .
Blood pressure should , therefore , be measured just prior to dosing to determine whether satisfactory blood pressure control is obtained .
If control is not adequate , increased dose or divided dosing can be tried .
The recommended dose range is 7 . 5 to 30 mg daily , administered in one or two divided doses one hour before meals .
Total daily doses above 60 mg a day have not been studied in hypertensive patients .
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension may occasionally occur following the initial dose of moexipril hydrochloride tablets .
The diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued for 2 to 3 days before therapy with moexipril hydrochloride tablets is begun , to reduce the likelihood of hypotension ( see WARNINGS ) .
If the patient ’ s blood pressure is not controlled with moexipril hydrochloride tablets alone , diuretic therapy may then be reinstituted .
If diuretic therapy cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 3 . 75 mg of moexipril hydrochloride tablets should be used with medical supervision until blood pressure has stabilized ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Impairment For patients with a creatinine clearance ≤ 40 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , an initial dose of 3 . 75 mg once daily should be given cautiously .
Doses may be titrated upward to a maximum daily dose of 15 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP , 7 . 5 mg , are pink , film - coated , oval , convex tablets debossed “ 17 ” on one side and bisected on the other .
They are available in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 0093 - 0017 - 01 ) Moexipril hydrochloride tablets USP , 15 mg , are pink , film - coated , oval , convex tablets debossed “ 5150 ” on one side and “ 93 ” to the left of a bisect on the other side .
They are available in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 0093 - 5150 - 01 ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed By : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . G 8 / 2015 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Moexipril Hydrochloride Tablets 7 . 5 mg 100 s Label Text NDC 0093 - 0017 - 01 Moexipril Hydrochloride Tablets USP 7 . 5 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Moexipril Hydrochloride Tablets 15 mg 100 s Label Text NDC 0093 - 5150 - 01 Moexipril Hydrochloride Tablets USP 15 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA
