Active ingredient Purpose Salicylic acid 1 . 8 % .............. Antidandruff Uses For Relief Oil ; itching and scalp falking associated with dandruff , seborrheic dermatitis and psoriasis Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if condition covers a large of the body .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Shake well before use - wet hair thoroughly - lather , rinse and repeat - for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Inactive ingredients : Allantoin , Aloe Vera Whole Leaf Gel ( Aloe Barbadensis ) , Cholecalciferol , Corn Oil ( Zea Mays ) , Glycerin , Grapefruit Extract ( Citrus Grandis ) , Henna Extract ( Lawsonia Inermis ) , Herbal Fragrance , Honey Extract , Hops Extract ( Humulus Lupulus ) , Horsetail Extract ( Equiseturn Hyermale ) , Hydrolyzed Soy Protein , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Lauramide DEA , Matricaria Extract ( Chamomilla Recutita ) , Nettle Extract ( Urtica Diolca ) , Panthenol , Pinus Palustris Wood Tar , Propylene Glycol , Retinyl Palmitate , Rosemary Extract ( Rosemarinus Officinalis ) , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Myreth Sulfate , TEA - Lauryl Sulfate , Tea Tree Oil ( Melaleuca Alternifolia ) , Triethanolamine , Water .
PROD .
NO . 54624 Everclean Shampoo helps eliminate itching and scalp flacking associated with dandruff , psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis , The active ingredient Salicylic Acid combines with a nutrient - filled moisturizing base that includes ; - Tea Tree Oil - traditional ingredient used for natural cleansing - Aloe Vera - a moisturizer for the scalp and hair - Allantoin - to soothe and improve scalp condition - Vegetable Protein - to add body and sheen to the hair - Natural Pine Tar - a cleansing agent that leaves a fresh pine scent - Panthenol - to nourish and strengthen the hair while increasing luster - Vitamins A and D - essential nutrients for scalp and hair - Plus gentle herbal extracts of Chamomile , Henna , Hops , Horsetail , Nettle and Rosemary Free of preservatives , parabens , mineral oil , petroleum , animal materials and artificial colors .
3 18858 54624 4 Carefully Manufactured for Home Health , Co .
Ronkonkoma , NY 11779 U . S . A . www . HomeHealthUS . com B54624 C2010 Home Health 02 B HomeHealth Natural Health Begins at Home Everclean Antidandruff Shampoo Salicyclic Acid With Tea Tree Oil , Aloe Vera , Allantoin and Herbal Extracts - For relief of itching and scalp flaking associated with dandruff , psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis .
- Gentle , moisturizing shampoo - Leaves hair fresh , healthy and manageable - Contains no artificial preservatives or colors - Paraben - Free Net Wt .
8 fl .
oz ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
