Active Ingredient Purpose Salicylic acid 2 . 0 % .................... Psoriasis Uses For Relief Oil - itching - irritation - redness - scaling associated with Psoriasis Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have psoriasis that covers a large area of the body .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - for best results apply daily or as directed by a physician - shake well before using - moisten affected area with lukewarm water - massage liberal amount of product to affected area in place of soap - rinse thoroughly and pat dry Inactive ingredients : allantoin , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , chamomilla recutita ( matricaria ) extract , citrus grandis ( grapefruit ) fruit extract , citrus medica limonum ( lemon ) peel oil , daucus carota sativa ( carrot ) seed oil , echinacea purpurea extract , equisetum hyemale extract , glycol stearate , honey extract , humulus lupulus ( hops ) extract , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lauramide DEA , lawsonia inermis ( henna ) extract , propylene glycol , purified water , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf extract , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , sodium chloride , sodium myreth sulfate , TEA - lauryl sulfate , triethanolamine , urtica dioica ( nettle ) extract .
PROD .
NO . 10624 Psoriasis Medicated Scalp and Body Wash helps fight the itching , redness , irritation and scaling associated with Psoriasis , dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis .
The active ingredient , Salicylic Acid , is combined with a soothing , moisturizing base that includes the following natural ingredients : Allantoin , Aloe Vera Gel , Carrot Oil , Echinacea Extract and Jojoba Oil .
At Home Health , years of research have gone into creating truly effective personal care products based on traditional , natural ingredients .
You can rely on Home Health to deliver the natural health products your family deserves .
Free of preservatives , parabens , mineral oil , petroleum , animal materials , artificial colors and artificial fragrance .
Store in a cool , dry place .
Contents may separate when left standing .
Shake vigorously .
GUARANTEED LABORATORY TESTED QUALITY 3 18858 10624 0 Carefully Manufactured for Home Health , Co .
Ronkonkoma , NY 11779 U . S . A www . HomeHealthUS . com C2009 Home Health B10624 08 C Home Health Natural Health Begins at Home Psoriasis Medicated Scalp and Body Wash 2 % Salicylic Acid With Carrot Oil , Jojoba Oil , Aloe Vera , Allantoin and Herbal Extracts - For the relief of itching , redness , irritation and scaling associated with Psoriasis , dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis .
- Gentle cleansing formula effective for scalp and body - Contains no artificial preservatives or colors - Paraben - Free Net WT .
8 fl .
oz .
( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
