Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Lidocaine 3 % Cream is a topical anesthetic indicated for the relief of pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness , and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
ACTIVE INGREDIENT : Each gram of Lidocaine 3 % Cream contains lidocaine hydrochloride 3 % ( 30 mg ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : aluminum sulfate , calcium acetate , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , PEG - 150 distearate , petrolatum , polycarbophil , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sodium hydroxide , stearyl alcohol , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : MECHANISM OF ACTION : Lidocaine 3 % Cream releases lidocaine from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PHARMACOKINETICS : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics , but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS : Anesthetic for relief of pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue [ the use of this product ] and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antieoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicyclic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION : Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
PRECAUTIONS : If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Lidocaine 3 % Cream should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY : Teratogenic Effects ; Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed for lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS : Lidocaine is excreted in human milk .
The clinical significance of this observation is unknown .
Caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Dosage in pediatric patients should be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Lidocaine 3 % Cream is supplied as a white cream in : 1 oz .
( 28 . 35 g ) tubes , NDC 13925 - 159 - 01 3 oz .
( 85 g ) tubes , NDC 13925 - 159 - 03 STORAGE AND HANDLING SECTION KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Marketed by : Seton Pharmaceuticals Manasquan , NJ 08736 1 - 800 - 510 - 3401 Iss .
01 / 19 1900008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC - 13925 - 159 - 01 Net Wt .
1 oz .
( 28 . 35 g ) Lidocaine 3 % Cream Topical Anesthetic FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
SETON PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
