DESCRIPTION Each Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppository for rectal administration contains hydrocortisone acetate in a hydrogenated cocoglyceride base .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid .
The molecular weight of hydrocortisone acetate is 404 . 50 .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - with an empirical formula of C23H32O6the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 percent of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of the anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenesis No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocortisone acetate suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with corticosteroid suppositories : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergic contact dermatitis , and secondary infection .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual dosage : One suppository in the rectum twice daily morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily ; or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories are easy to open , color coded and available in cartons of 12 .
25 mgNDC 0574 - 7090 - 12 30 mgNDC 0574 - 7093 - 12 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Rx Only Manufactured By Perrigo ® Minneapolis , MN 55427 2201371 1B400 RC J1 Rev 07 - 19 B PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Carton Rx Only NDC 0574 - 7090 - 12 Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 25 mg UNIT DOSE 12 Suppositories FOR RECTAL USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 mg Carton Rx Only NDC 0574 - 7093 - 12 Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 30 mg UNIT DOSE 12 Suppositories FOR RECTAL USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
