BOSLEY PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Regular Strength For Men Active Ingredient Minoxidil 5 . 0 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of carton ) .
Warnings For external use only Flammable : keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss on the front of the scalp .
5 % Minoxidil Topical Solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medications on the scalp .
Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture .
• It takes time to regrow hair .
Result may occur all 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness or dizziness occurs • sudden unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feel swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply one ML 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton , it contains important information • hair growth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % • in clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % provided more hair regrowth than Minoxidil Topical Solutions 2 % • store at controlled room temperature 20 degree to 25 degree C ( 68 degree to 77 degree F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol 30 % v / v , propylene glycol 50 % v / v , purified water Questions or comments ?
questions : call your health professional or Bosley at 1 ( 800 ) BOSLEY1 BOSLEY PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Regular Strength For Men 2 - 60 ml ( 65121 - 102 - 05 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
