Active Ingredients Menthol 9 . 00 % ; Camphor 3 . 00 % , Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of the muscles and joints Warning For external use only .
Do not apply to wounds or damaged or irritated skin .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
If this occurs , wash the area thoroughly with water .
• You may experience a burning sensation when using this product which is normal and related to the way the product works .
With regular use this sensation will disappear after several days .
• Do not apply immediately before or after activities such as strenuous exercise , bathing , swimming or sun bathing • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated areas • Do not apply heat or heating pad to the treated areas immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • Symptoms persist for more than seven days , discontinue use and consult a physician • Rash / blistering occurs • Difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs • Severe burning pain persists Keep out the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a physician before use .
Directions • Apply to affected area and gently massage until cream is thoroughly absorbed • Repeat up to three to four times daily • Unless treating hands , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after use • For persons under 18 years old , consult a physician before using Other information : This product may cause allergic reactions in some individuals .
Test on a small area before use .
Stop use and ask a doctor if blisters develop .
Inactive Ingredients : Acrylates / c10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Cetyl Alcohol , Capsaicin , Ethylhexylglycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Isopropyl Myristate , Methylsulfonylmethane , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Stearic Acid , Triethanolamine , Parfum ( Fragrance ) .
Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
