Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Codeine Phosphate , USP 10 mg Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg Purposes Cough Suppressant Expectorant Keep Out of Reach of Children Uses • • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritations as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive Warnings Do not use • • in adults and children who have a chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath , or children who are taking other drugs , unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • a cough with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • a persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives , tranquilizers and drugs used for depression , especially monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) .
These combinations may cause greater sedation ( drowsiness ) than is caused by the product used alone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These can be signs of a serious condition .
• • may cause or aggravate constipation If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
• • Use of codeine - containing preparations is not recommended for children under 2 years of age Directions • • take every 4 hours • • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours • • a special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age • • giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor can result in serious side effects for a child adults and children 12 years and over 2 teaspoonfuls children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 teaspoonfuls children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Other information • • each ( 5 mL ) teaspoon contains : 1 mg sodium • • Tamper evident : Do not use if seal under cap is broken or missing .
• • Keep container closed and away from heat .
• • Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients alcohol 3 . 5 % v / v , artificial cherry flavor , caramel , citric acid , FD & C red # 40 , glycerin , polyethylene glycol , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 , Mon . - Thurs 9 : 00 am thru 4 : 30 pm EST , Fri . 9 : 00 am thru 2 : 30 pm EST .
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN NDC 50383 - 087 - 16 Guaiatussin AC Sugar - Free • • Expectorant • • Cough Suppresant Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains Guaifenesin … … … … … .
100 mg Codeine Phosphate … … ..
10 mg Alcohol … … … … … … … .... 3 . 5 % v / v Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
