Active ingredient Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 8 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , glycerin , isopropyl isostearate , boron nitride , sodium carboxymethyl beta - glucan , polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , cyclopentasiloxane , dimethiconol , dimethicone , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , ethylparaben , butylparaben , propylparaben , isobutylparaben , sorbitan stearate , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , behenyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , PEG - 100 stearate , stearic acid , ascorbyl tetraisopalmitate , magnesium aspartate , zinc gluconate , copper gluconate , calcium gluconate , dihydroxyacetone Package / Label Principal Display Panel CAREONE ® anti - aging vitamin complex 7 - in - 1 broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen fragrance free 7 anti - aging treatments in 1 vitamin and antioxidant moisturizer + broad spectrum SPF15 protection for younger - looking skin 1 . 7 FL OZ ( 50 mL ) For those who are concerned about exposure to the sun and the main cause of premature visible aging , this fragrance - free , color - free facial moisturizer provides 7 anti - aging treatments in 1 formulation , plus extra protection against sun damage .
• Line Reduction : Diminishes the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles • Moisturizing Nourishment : for a healthy and radiant glow • Tone Improvement : Evens out skin color , reducing the appearance of age spots • Gentle Exfoliation : Smoothes and evens out skin texture • Refinement of Pores : Minimizes the appearance of pores • Defense Against Free Radicals : Prevents damage to skin ' s surface • Delicate Lifting : Hydrates the skin for a firmer appearance RESULTS : Younger - looking skin that appears more resilient to aging .
Directions for Uses : Apply liberally on face and neck as often as necessary each day to help protect your skin from harmful UV rays while keeping skin soft and smooth .
Gentle enough for every day use .
Designed to replace your moisturizer and specially skin care products .
This Exclusive Formulation Is : • Dermatologist Tested • Non - Comedogenic ( wo n't clog pores ) • Color and Fragrance Free • Oil Free • Fast Absorbing DISTRIBUTED BY : AMERICAN SALES COMPANY 4201 WALDEN AVENUE LANCASTER , NY 14086 www . care1 . info © 2012 S & S Brands , Inc Quality guaranteed or your money back .
Manufactured in Israel 2F692 D4 C2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
