Drug Facts Active Ingredient Witch Hazel , 50 % Purpose Astringent Use Temporarily relieves these external symptoms associated with hemorrhoids : • itching • burning • irritation Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
• do not put directly into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Rectal bleeding occurs • Condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : As hemorrhoidal treatments for adults : • When practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
• Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying .
• Gently apply to the affected area by patting and then discard .
• Can be used up to six times daily or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients alcohol , citric acid , diazolidinyl urea , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , sodium citrate , water COMPARABLE TO TUCKS ® MEDICATED PADS ACTIVE INGREDIENT * Hemorrhoidal / Vaginal Pads with Witch Hazel • Pre - moistened pads provide temporary relief of burning , itching and local discomfort associated with hemorrhoids 3 . 0 IN DIA ( 7 . 62 cm dia ) Other Uses For vaginal care - Cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting with pad and discard .
Repeat as needed .
FOR YOUR PROTECTION , JAR IS SEALED .
IF SEAL IS BROKEN OR MISSING , DO NOT USE .
Made in China Distributed By : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 East Lancaster Avenue Wayne , PA 19087 If for any reason you are not satisfied with this product , please return it to the store where purchased for a full refund .
Questions ?
Information ?
Call Toll - Free ( 888 ) 401 - 5450 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNEIL - PPC , Inc , owner of the registered trademark TUCKS ® Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
