Active ingredients Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % Camphor 3 . 0 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment / first aid antiseptic Uses • • for treatment of cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • • temporarily relieves the symptoms of itching and pain associated with cold sores / fever blisters • • first aid to help protect against infection in minor cuts , scrapes , burns , and sores Warnings • For external use only : Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a physician .
• Allergy Alert : Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product .
• When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Use only as directed .
• Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse .
Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • • clean the affected area • • apply a small amount of this product to the affected area 1 to 3 times daily • • rub in gently • • may be covered with a sterile bandage • • wash hands before and after applying cream • • do not share this product with anyone • • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients alcohol , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , arginine , butylparaben , cetearyl isononanoate , dipropylene glycol dicaprylate / dicaprate , ethylparaben , eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , hexyl decyl laurate , hexyldecanole , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , menthol , methylparaben , ozokerite , phenoxyethanol , poloxamer 407 , propylparaben , thymol , tocopheryl nicotinate ( vitamin e ) , zinc chloride Questions or Comments ?
Call us toll - free at 1 - 877 - 242 - 3234 Monday - Friday , 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . EST .
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
