DESCRIPTION Generlac Solution ( Lactulose Solution , USP ) is a synthetic disaccharide in solution form for oral or rectal administration .
Each 15 mL of Generlac Solution contains : 10 g lactulose ( and less than 1 . 6 g galactose , less than 1 . 2 g lactose , less than 0 . 8 g epilactose and 0 . 1 g or less of fructose ) .
The pH range is between 2 . 5 and 6 . 5 .
Generlac Solution is a colonic acidifier for treatment and prevention of portal - systemic encephalopathy .
The chemical name for lactulose is 4 - O - β - D - galactopyranosyl - D - fructofuranose .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C12H22O11 The molecular weight is 342 . 30 .
It is freely soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lactulose causes a decrease in blood ammonia concentration and reduces the degree of portal - systemic encephalopathy .
These actions are considered to be results of the following : • Bacterial degradation of lactulose in the colon acidifies the colonic contents .
• This acidification of colonic contents results in the retention of ammonia in the colon as the ammonium ion .
Since the colonic contents are then more acid than the blood , ammonia can be expected to migrate from the blood into the colon to form the ammonium ion .
• The acid colonic contents convert NH3to the ammonium ion [ NH4 ] + , trapping it and preventing its absorption .
• The laxative action of the metabolites of lactulose then expels the trapped ammonium ion from the colon .
Experimental data indicate that lactulose is poorly absorbed .
Lactulose given orally to man and experimental animals resulted in only small amounts reaching the blood .
Urinary excretion has been determined to be 3 % or less and is essentially complete within 24 hours .
When incubated with extracts of human small intestinal mucosa , lactulose was not hydrolyzed during a 24 - hour period and did not inhibit the activity of these extracts on lactose .
Lactulose reaches the colon essentially unchanged .
There it is metabolized by bacteria with the formation of low molecular weight acids that acidify the colon contents .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the prevention and treatment of portal - systemic encephalopathy , including the stages of hepatic pre - coma and coma .
Controlled studies have shown that lactulose solution therapy reduces the blood ammonia levels by 25 to 50 % ; this is generally paralleled by an improvement in the patients ' mental state and by an improvement in EEG patterns .
The clinical response has been observed in about 75 % of patients , which is at least as satisfactory as that resulting from neomycin therapy .
An increase in patients ' protein tolerance is also frequently observed with lactulose solution therapy .
In the treatment of chronic portal - systemic encephalopathy , lactulose solution has been given for over 2 years in controlled studies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Since Generlac Solution ( Lactulose Solution , USP ) contains galactose ( less than 1 . 6 g / 15 mL ) , it is contraindicated in patients who require a low galactose diet .
WARNINGS A theoretical hazard may exist for patients being treated with lactulose solution who may be required to undergo electrocautery procedures during proctoscopy or colonoscopy .
Accumulation of H2 gas in significant concentration in the presence of an electrical spark may result in an explosive reaction .
Although this complication has not been reported with lactulose , patients on lactulose therapy undergoing such procedures should have a thorough bowel cleansing with a non - fermentable solution .
Insufflation of CO2 as an additional safeguard may be pursued but is considered to be a redundant measure .
PRECAUTIONS General Since Generlac Solution contains galactose ( less than 1 . 6 g / 15 mL ) and lactose ( less than 1 . 2 g / 15 mL ) , it should be used with caution in diabetics .
In the overall management of portal - systemic encephalopathy , it should be recognized that there is serious underlying liver disease with complications such as electrolyte disturbance ( e . g . , hypokalemia ) for which other specific therapy may be required .
Infants receiving lactulose may develop hyponatremia and dehydration .
Drug Interactions There have been conflicting reports about the concomitant use of neomycin and lactulose solution .
Theoretically , the elimination of certain colonic bacteria by neomycin and possibly other anti - infective agents may interfere with the desired degradation of lactulose and thus prevent the acidification of colonic contents .
Thus the status of the lactulose - treated patient should be closely monitored in the event of concomitant oral anti - infective therapy .
Results of preliminary studies in humans and rats suggest that nonabsorbable antacids given concurrently with lactulose may inhibit the desired lactulose - induced drop in colonic pH . Therefore , a possible lack of desired effect of treatment should be taken into consideration before such drugs are given concomitantly with Generlac Solution .
Other laxatives should not be used , especially during the initial phase of therapy for portalsystemic encephalopathy , because the loose stools resulting from their use may falsely suggest that adequate Generlac Solution dosage has been achieved .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no known human data on long - term potential for carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
There are no known animal data on long - term potential for mutagenicity .
Administration of lactulose solution in the diet of mice for 18 months in concentrations of 3 and 10 percent ( v / w ) did not produce any evidence of carcinogenicity .
In studies of mice , rats , and rabbits , doses of lactulose solution up to 6 or 12 mL / kg / day produced no deleterious effects in breeding , conception , or parturition .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 2 or 4 times the usual human oral dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to lactulose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Generlac Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Very little information on the use of lactulose in pediatric patients has been recorded ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Precise frequency data are not available .
Generlac Solution may produce gaseous distention with flatulence or belching and abdominal discomfort such as cramping in about 20 % of patients .
Excessive dosage can lead to diarrhea with potential complications such as loss of fluids , hypokalemia , and hypernatremia .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Wockhardt USA , LLC , at 1 - 800 - 445 - 4290 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms There have been no reports of accidental overdosage .
In the event of overdosage , it is expected that diarrhea and abdominal cramps would be the major symptoms .
Medication should be terminated .
Oral LD50 The acute oral LD50 of the drug is 48 . 8 mL / kg in mice and greater than 30 mL / kg in rats .
Dialysis Dialysis data are not available for lactulose .
Its molecular similarity to sucrose , however , would suggest that it should be dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral Adult The usual adult oral dosage is 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls ( 30 to 45 mL , containing 20 g to 30 g of Generlac Solution ) three or four times daily .
The dosage may be adjusted every day or two to produce 2 or 3 soft stools daily .
Hourly doses of 30 to 45 mL of Generlac Solution may be used to induce the rapid laxation indicated in the initial phase of the therapy of portal - systemic encephalopathy .
When the laxative effect has been achieved , the dose of Generlac Solution may then be reduced to the recommended daily dose .
Improvement in the patient ' s condition may occur within 24 hours but may not begin before 48 hours or even later .
Continuous long - term therapy is indicated to lessen the severity and prevent the recurrence of portal - systemic encephalopathy .
The dose of Generlac Solution for this purpose is the same as the recommended daily dose .
Pediatric Very little information on the use of lactulose in young children and adolescents has been recorded .
As with adults , the subjective goal in proper treatment is to produce 2 to 3 soft stools daily .
On the basis of information available , the recommended initial daily oral dose in infants is 2 . 5 to 10 mL in divided doses .
For older children and adolescents , the total daily dose is 40 to 90 mL .
If the initial dose causes diarrhea , the dose should be reduced immediately .
If diarrhea persists , Generlac Solution should be discontinued .
Rectal When the adult patient is in the impending coma or coma stage of portal - systemic encephalopathy and the danger of aspiration exists , or when the necessary endoscopic or intubation procedures physically interfere with the administration of the recommended oral doses , Generlac Solution may be given as a retention enema via a rectal balloon catheter .
Cleansing enemas containing soapsuds or other alkaline agents should not be used .
Three hundred mL of Generlac Solution should be mixed with 700 mL of water or physiologic saline and retained for 30 to 60 minutes .
Generlac Solution enema may be repeated every 4 to 6 hours .
If the enema is inadvertently evacuated too promptly , it may be repeated immediately .
The goal of treatment is reversal of the coma stage in order that the patient may be able to take oral medication .
Reversal of coma may take place within 2 hours of the first enema in some patients .
Generlac Solution , given orally in the recommended doses , should be started before Generlac Solution by enema is stopped entirely .
HOW SUPPLIED Generlac Solution ( Lactulose Solution , USP , 10 g / 15 mL ) is a colorless to yellow , unflavored solution containing 10 g of lactulose / 15 mL ( 667 mg lactulose / mL ) .
It is available in the following container sizes : • 1 Pint ( 473 mL ) bottles ( NDC 60432 - 038 - 16 ) • 2 Quart ( 1892 mL ) bottles ( NDC 60432 - 038 - 64 ) STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do Not Freeze Under recommended storage conditions , a normal darkening of color may occur .
Such darkening is characteristic of sugar solutions and does not affect therapeutic action .
Prolonged exposure to temperatures above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) or to direct light may cause extreme darkening and turbidity which may be pharmaceutically objectionable .
If this condition develops , do not use .
Prolonged exposure to freezing temperatures may cause change to a semi - solid , too viscous to pour .
Viscosity will return to normal upon warming to room temperature .
Dispense in original container or in a tight , light - resistant container with child - resistant closure as defined in the USP .
To The Pharmacist : When ordering this product , include the product number ( or NDC ) in the description .
Rx Only Product No . : 8038 Manufactured For : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 Packaged By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 Distributed by : Wockhardt USA , LLC .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 A50 - 8038 - 64 REV . 09 - 18 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL WOCKHARDT NDC 60432 - 038 - 64 GENERLAC SOLUTION 10 g / 15 mL ( Lactulose Solution , USP ) For Oral or Rectal Administration INDICATIONS : FOR THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF PORTAL - SYSTEMIC ENCEPHALOPATHY .
SEE INSERT LABELING FOR FULL INFORMATION .
DO NOT USE IF INNER FOIL SEAL PRINTED " SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION " IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
BULK CONTAINER — NOT FOR HOUSEHOLD USE Rx Only NET : 2 Quarts ( 1892 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
