Niacinamide , Adenosine Water , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Crithmum Maritimum Callus Culture Filtrate , etc .
Helps brighten the skin and reduce skin wrinkles .
keep out or reach of the children Take an adequate amount of this product and evenly spread on the skin .
1 .
Discontinue use , if any of the following abnormal symptoms occur after using the product .
If you continue to use the product , your symptoms can get worse .
Please consult a dermatologist .
1 ) If symptoms such as red spots , swelling , itching or irritation appear while using the product 2 ) If the above symptoms appear when the skin is exposed to direct sunlight after using the product 2 .
Do not use on wounds , and areas affected by eczema and dermatitis 3 .
Precautions for storage and handling 1 ) Always recap after use .
2 ) Keep out of reach of infants and children .
3 ) Do not store at high or low temperatures , and in direct sunlight .
4 .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
- If you are very sensitive to a sticking plaster or a wet compress , use with caution or discontinue use - Limited to Whitening Concentrate Treatment Mask products .
- Fine grains can be felt due to CELTOSOME ™ Crithmum Maritimum ST ( Limited to Hydra Extra Concentrate products . )
5 .
The SPF of this product was measured according to the method of Cosmmedics Europe and its PA according to the method of the Japan Cosmetic Industry Association ( JCIA ) .
( Limited to Protective Base Sunscreen products for dry skin ) 6 .
The SPF of this product was measured according to the International SPF Test Method and its PA according to the method of the Japan Cosmetic Industry Association ( JCIA ) .
( Limited to Protective Base Sunscreen products for oily skin ) 7 .
The SPF and PA of this product were measured according to the methods proposed by the Regulations of Functional Cosmetic Evaluation .
( Limited to BB cream . )
8 .
Do not use on children under the age of 3 because this product contains salicylic acids and salts .
( Limited to Purifying Sebum Relief Spot products . )
If this product causes any abnormal symptoms , you can exchange it or be compensated for damages in accordance with the consumer dispute settlement regulation notified by the Fair Trade Commission .
This product was made by COSMAX which has been approved to comply with CGMP ( Current Good Manufacturing Practice ) regulations .
for external use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
