WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY • ERIVEDGE can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman .
ERIVEDGE is embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic in animals .
Teratogenic effects included severe midline defects , missing digits , and other irreversible malformations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating ERIVEDGE .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risks to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after ERIVEDGE [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise males of the potential risk of ERIVEDGE exposure through semen and to use condoms with a pregnant partner or a female partner of reproductive potential [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• ERIVEDGE can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman .
ERIVEDGE is embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic in animals .
Teratogenic effects included severe midline defects , missing digits , and other irreversible malformations .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating ERIVEDGE .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risks to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after ERIVEDGE .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Advise males of the potential risk of ERIVEDGE exposure through semen and to use condoms with a pregnant partner or a female partner of reproductive potential .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) 07 / 2020 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 07 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ERIVEDGE is indicated for the treatment of adults with metastatic basal cell carcinoma , or with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma that has recurred following surgery or who are not candidates for surgery and who are not candidates for radiation .
ERIVEDGE ® ( vismodegib ) is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with metastatic basal cell carcinoma , or with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma that has recurred following surgery or who are not candidates for surgery and who are not candidates for radiation .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 150 mg orally once daily .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Safety Information Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating ERIVEDGE [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ERIVEDGE is 150 mg taken orally once daily , with or without food , until disease progression or until unacceptable toxicity .
Swallow capsules whole .
Do not open or crush capsules .
If a dose of ERIVEDGE is missed , resume dosing with the next scheduled dose .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Withhold ERIVEDGE for up to 8 weeks for intolerable adverse reactions until improvement or resolution .
Treatment durations shorter than 8 weeks prior to interruptions have not been studied .
Permanently discontinue ERIVEDGE if patients experience severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCARs ) including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , or drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 150 mg with " 150 mg " printed on pink opaque body and " VISMO " printed on grey opaque cap in black ink .
150 mg capsules .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : • Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products while receiving ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose of ERIVEDGE .
( 5 . 1 ) • Advise males not to donate semen during and for 3 months after therapy ( 5 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions : Permanently discontinue ERIVEDGE in patients with these reactions ( 5 . 2 ) • Premature fusion of the epiphyses ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , ERIVEDGE can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , vismodegib was embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic at maternal exposures lower than the human exposures at the recommended dose of 150 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Potential Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating ERIVEDGE .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Males Vismodegib is present in semen .
It is not known if the amount of vismodegib in semen can cause embryo - fetal harm .
Advise males to use condoms , even after a vasectomy , to avoid potential drug exposure in pregnant partners and female partners of reproductive potential during therapy and for 3 months after the final dose of ERIVEDGE .
Advise male patients not to donate semen during and for 3 months after the final dose of ERIVEDGE [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Blood Donation Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products while receiving ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose of ERIVEDGE .
5 . 2 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCARs ) , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , which can be life - threatening or fatal , have been reported during treatment with ERIVEDGE [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue ERIVEDGE in patients with these reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Premature Fusion of the Epiphyses Premature fusion of the epiphyses has been reported in pediatric patients exposed to ERIVEDGE .
In some cases , fusion progressed after drug discontinuation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
ERIVEDGE is not indicated for pediatric patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Premature Fusion of the Epiphyses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • The most common adverse reactions ( incidence of ≥ 10 % ) are muscle spasms , alopecia , dysgeusia , weight loss , fatigue , nausea , diarrhea , decreased appetite , constipation , arthralgias , vomiting , and ageusia .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Genentech , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety data described below reflect exposure to ERIVEDGE in 138 patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) who received ERIVEDGE at doses ≥ 150 mg orally daily in four open - label , uncontrolled , dose - ranging or fixed single dose clinical trials [ Study SHH3925g , SHH4437g , SHH4476g and SHH4610g ] .
The median age of these patients was 61 years ( range 21 to 101 years ) , 100 % were White ( including Hispanics ) , and 64 % were male .
The median duration of treatment was approximately 10 months ( range 21 days to 36 months ) ; 111 patients received ERIVEDGE for 6 months or longer .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) were muscle spasms , alopecia , dysgeusia , weight loss , fatigue , nausea , diarrhea , decreased appetite , constipation , arthralgias , vomiting , and ageusia ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 10 % of Patients with Advanced Basal Cell CarcinomaAdverse Reaction ERIVEDGE ( N = 138 ) All Grades [ 1 ] ( % ) Grade 3 ( % ) Grade 4 ( % ) Gastrointestinal Nausea 30 % 0 . 7 % - Diarrhea 29 % 0 . 7 % - Constipation 21 % - - Vomiting 14 % - - General Fatigue 40 % 5 % 0 . 7 % Investigations Weight loss 45 % 7 % - Metabolism and nutrition Decreased appetite 25 % 2 . 2 % - Musculoskeletal and connective tissue Muscle spasms 72 % 3 . 6 % - Arthralgias 16 % 0 . 7 % Nervous system Dysgeusia 55 % - - Ageusia 11 % - - Skin and subcutaneous tissue Alopecia 64 % - - [ 1 ] Grading according to National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3 . 0 .
Amenorrhea Among patients from the clinical trials included in the pooled safety data analysis , 30 % of 10 pre - menopausal women developed amenorrhea while receiving ERIVEDGE .
Laboratory Abnormalities Grade 3 laboratory abnormalities observed in clinical trials were hyponatremia ( 4 % ) , azotemia ( 2 % ) and hypokalemia ( 1 % ) .
Additionally , in a post - approval clinical trial conducted in 1232 patients with locally advanced or metastatic BCC treated with ERIVEDGE , a subset of 29 patients had baseline values for blood creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) reported .
Within this subset of patients , 38 % had a shift from baseline , including Grade 3 ( 3 % ) increased CPK .
Grade 3 or 4 increased CPK occurred in 2 . 4 % of the 453 patients across the entire study population with any CPK measurement .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ERIVEDGE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hepatobiliary disorders : Drug - induced liver injury Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Stevens - Johnson syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : May cause amenorrhea in females .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ERIVEDGE during pregnancy .
Report pregnancies to Genentech at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 .
Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal reproduction studies , ERIVEDGE can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of vismodegib during organogenesis at doses below the 150 mg clinical dose resulted in embryotoxicity , fetotoxicity , and teratogenicity in rats ( see Data ) .
There are no human data on the use of ERIVEDGE in pregnant women .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal toxicity study , pregnant rats were administered vismodegib orally at doses of 10 , 60 , or 300 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Pre - and post - implantation loss were increased at doses of ≥ 60 mg / kg / day [ approximately 2 times the human exposure at the 150 mg clinical dose based on area under the curve ( AUC ) ] , which included early resorption of 100 % of the fetuses .
A dose of 10 mg / kg / day [ approximately 0 . 2 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the recommended 150 mg clinical dose ] resulted in malformations ( including missing and / or fused digits , open perineum and craniofacial anomalies ) and retardations or variations ( including dilated renal pelvis , dilated ureter , and incompletely or unossified sternal elements , centra of vertebrae , or proximal phalanges and claws ) .
8 . 2 Lactation No data are available regarding the presence of vismodegib in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed child , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from ERIVEDGE , advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating ERIVEDGE .
Contraception Based on its mechanism of action and animal data , ERIVEDGE can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose .
Males Vismodegib is present in semen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
It is not known if the amount of vismodegib in semen can cause embryo - fetal harm .
Advise male patients to use condoms , even after a vasectomy , to avoid drug exposure to pregnant partners and female partners of reproductive potential during therapy with and for 3 months after the final dose of ERIVEDGE .
Advise males of the potential risk to an embryo or fetus if a female partner of reproductive potential is exposed to ERIVEDGE .
Advise males not to donate semen during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after the final dose .
Infertility Females Amenorrhea can occur in females of reproductive potential .
Reversibility of amenorrhea is unknown [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ERIVEDGE have not been established in pediatric patients .
Premature fusion of the epiphyses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] and precocious puberty have been reported in pediatric patients exposed to ERIVEDGE .
In some cases , epiphyseal fusion progressed after drug discontinuation .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data In repeat - dose toxicology studies in rats , administration of oral vismodegib resulted in toxicities in bone and teeth .
Effects on bone consisted of closure of the epiphyseal growth plate when oral vismodegib was administered for 26 weeks at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately ≥ 0 . 4 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the 150 mg clinical dose ) .
Abnormalities in growing incisor teeth ( including degeneration / necrosis of odontoblasts , formation of fluid - filled cysts in the dental pulp , ossification of the root canal , and hemorrhage resulting in breakage or loss of teeth ) were observed after administration of oral vismodegib at ≥ 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately ≥ 0 . 2 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the 150 mg clinical dose ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ERIVEDGE did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Vismodegib is a hedgehog ( Hh ) pathway inhibitor , which is described chemically as 2 - Chloro - N - ( 4 - chloro - 3 - ( pyridin - 2 - yl ) phenyl ) - 4 - ( methylsulfonyl ) benzamide .
The molecular formula is C19H14Cl2N2O3S .
The molecular weight is 421 . 3 g / mol and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vismodegib is a crystalline free base with a pKa ( pyridinium cation ) of 3 . 8 , appearing as a white to tan powder .
The solubility of vismodegib is pH dependent with 0 . 1 µg / mL at pH 7 and 0 . 99 mg / mL at pH 1 .
The partition coefficient ( log P ) is 2 . 7 .
ERIVEDGE ( vismodegib ) for oral administration is supplied in capsules containing 150 mg vismodegib and the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , talc , and magnesium stearate ( non - bovine ) .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , titanium dioxide , red iron oxide , and black iron oxide .
The black printing ink contains shellac and black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Vismodegib is an inhibitor of the Hedgehog pathway .
Vismodegib binds to and inhibits Smoothened , a transmembrane protein involved in Hedgehog signal transduction .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology ERIVEDGE did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent following 7 days of 150 mg once - daily dosing ( at steady state ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of vismodegib were studied in healthy subjects and patients .
Following daily oral dosing , the pharmacokinetics of vismodegib appear to be nonlinear with steady state achieved within 7 days .
Increasing the dose from 150 mg to 540 mg ( 1 to 3 . 6 times the recommended dose ) does not result in higher steady state plasma concentrations .
Average plasma concentration of vismodegib at steady state ( Css , avg ) is ~ 23 µM following 150 mg once daily dose .
Absorption The single dose absolute bioavailability of vismodegib is 32 % .
Absorption is saturable as evidenced by the lack of dose proportional increase in exposure after a single dose of 270 mg or 540 mg vismodegib .
Effect of Food Cmax and AUC0 - 24 hr of vismodegib at steady state are not affected by food .
Distribution The volume of distribution of vismodegib ranges from 16 . 4 to 26 . 6 L . Vismodegib plasma protein binding in patients is > 99 % .
Vismodegib binds to both human serum albumin and alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein ( AAG ) and binding to AAG is saturable .
Male patients had an average concentration of vismodegib in semen on day 8 that was 6 . 5 % of the average steady state concentration ( Css ) observed in plasma .
Elimination The estimated elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of vismodegib is 4 days after continuous once - daily dosing and 12 days after a single dose .
Metabolism Greater than 98 % of the total circulating drug - related components are the parent drug .
Metabolic pathways of vismodegib in humans include oxidation , glucuronidation , and pyridine ring cleavage .
The two most abundant oxidative metabolites recovered in feces are produced in vitro by recombinant CYP2C9 and CYP3A .
Excretion Vismodegib and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the hepatic route with 82 % of the administered dose recovered in the feces and 4 . 4 % recovered in urine .
Specific Populations Weight ( 41 - 140 kg ) , age ( 26 - 89 years ) , sex , mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 79 mL / min ) , mild hepatic impairment ( normal total bilirubin and aspartate transaminase ( AST ) > upper limit of normal ( ULN ) or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN ) , moderate hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN ) , or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 to 10 times ULN ) had no clinically relevant effects on the systemic exposure of vismodegib .
The impact of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of vismodegib is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies No clinically significant differences in vismodegib pharmacokinetics were observed when used concomitantly with fluconazole ( moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibitor ) , itraconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P - gp inhibitor ) and rabeprazole ( gastric acid reducing agent , proton pump inhibitor ) .
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of the following drugs were observed when used concomitantly with vismodegib : rosiglitazone ( a CYP2C8 substrate ) or ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone ( oral contraceptive ) .
In Vitro Studies Vismodegib is an inhibitor of the transporter BCRP and is not an inducer of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies were performed in mice and rats .
No carcinogenic potential was identified in either species .
Vismodegib was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay and was not clastogenic in the in vitro human chromosomal aberration assay in human peripheral blood lymphocytes or in the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
In a dedicated 26 - week rat fertility study , no effects on male reproductive organs or fertility endpoints were observed at vismodegib doses of 100 mg / kg / day [ approximately 1 . 3 times the human exposure ( steady state AUC0 - 24 hr ) at the 150 mg clinical dose ] either at the end of dosing or following a 16 - week recovery phase .
While there were increased numbers of degenerating germ cells and hypospermia in sexually immature dogs observed at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day in the 4 - week general toxicity study , there were no effects on male reproductive organs in sexually mature rats and dogs , in the vismodegib general toxicity studies of up to 26 - weeks .
In a female fertility study , treatment of rats with vismodegib at 100 mg / kg / day [ approximately 1 . 2 - times the human exposure ( steady state AUC0 - 24 hr ) at the 150 mg clinical dose ] for 26 - weeks prior to mating resulted in decreased implantations , increased percent preimplantation loss , and decreased numbers of dams with viable embryos .
No vismodegib - related changes in fertility were observed following a 16 - week recovery period .
In a 26 - week general toxicity study in rats , decreased numbers of corpora lutea were observed at 100 mg / kg / day ; the effect was not reversed by the end of an 8 - week recovery period .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Neurologic effects characterized as limb or body tremors or twitching were observed in rats administered oral vismodegib for 4 weeks or longer at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately ≥ 0 . 4 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the 150 mg clinical dose ) .
These observations resolved upon discontinuation of dosing and were not associated with microscopic findings .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A single , international , single - arm , multi - center , open - label , 2 - cohort trial [ SHH4476g ( NCT00833417 ) ] was conducted in 104 patients with either metastatic basal cell carcinoma ( mBCC ) ( n = 33 ) or locally advanced BCC ( laBCC ) ( n = 71 ) .
Patients with laBCC were required to have lesions that had recurred after radiotherapy , unless radiotherapy was contraindicated or inappropriate ( e . g . Gorlin syndrome ; limitations because of location of tumor or cumulative prior radiotherapy dose ) , and where the lesions were either unresectable or surgical resection would result in substantial deformity .
Patients were to receive ERIVEDGE 150 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
The major efficacy outcome measure was objective response rate ( ORR ) as assessed by an independent review facility ( IRF ) .
In the mBCC cohort , tumor response was assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( RECIST ) version 1 . 0 .
In the laBCC cohort , tumor response evaluation included measurement of externally assessable tumor ( including scar ) and assessment for ulceration in photographs , radiographic assessment of target lesions ( if appropriate ) , and tumor biopsy .
An objective response in laBCC required at least one of the following criteria and absence of any criterion for disease progression : ( 1 ) ≥ 30 % reduction in lesion size [ sum of the longest diameter ( SLD ) ] from baseline in target lesions by radiographic assessment ; ( 2 ) ≥ 30 % reduction in SLD from baseline in externally visible dimension of target lesions ; ( 3 ) complete resolution of ulceration in all target lesions .
Complete response was defined as objective response ( as defined above ) with no residual BCC on sampling tumor biopsy .
Disease progression was defined as any of the following : ( 1 ) ≥ 20 % increase in the SLD from nadir in target lesions ( either by radiography or by externally visible dimension ) ; ( 2 ) new ulceration of target lesions persisting without evidence of healing for at least 2 weeks ; ( 3 ) new lesions by radiographic assessment or physical examination ; ( 4 ) progression of non - target lesions by RECIST .
Of the 104 patients enrolled , 96 patients were evaluable for ORR .
Twenty - one percent of patients carried a diagnosis of Gorlin syndrome .
The median age of the efficacy evaluable population was 62 years ( 46 % were at least 65 years old ) , 61 % male and 100 % White .
For the mBCC cohort ( n = 33 ) , 97 % of patients had prior therapy including surgery ( 97 % ) , radiotherapy ( 58 % ) , and systemic therapies ( 30 % ) .
For the laBCC cohort ( n = 63 ) , 94 % of patients had prior therapies including surgery ( 89 % ) , radiotherapy ( 27 % ) , and systemic / topical therapies ( 11 % ) .
The median duration of treatment was 10 . 2 months ( range 0 . 7 to 18 . 7 months ) .
The efficacy results are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Results for Evaluable Patients in Study SHH4476g [ 1 ] mBCC ( n = 33 ) laBCC ( n = 63 ) IRF [ 2 ] - Confirmed ORR , n ( % ) 10 ( 30 . 3 ) 27 ( 42 . 9 ) ( 95 % CI ) ( 15 . 6 , 48 . 2 ) ( 30 . 5 , 56 . 0 ) Complete response [ 3 ] 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 13 ( 20 . 6 ) Partial response 10 ( 30 . 3 ) 14 ( 22 . 2 ) Median Response Duration ( months ) 7 . 6 7 . 6 ( 95 % CI [ 4 ] ) ( 5 . 6 , NE [ 5 ] ) ( 5 . 7 , 9 . 7 ) [ 1 ] Patients who received at least one dose of ERIVEDGE with independent pathologist - confirmed diagnosis of BCC [ 2 ] IRF = Independent Review Facility [ 3 ] For laBCC , complete response was defined as objective response with no residual BCC on sampling tumor biopsy .
[ 4 ] CI = Confidence Interval [ 5 ] NE = Not estimable 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ERIVEDGE capsules have a pink opaque body and a grey opaque cap with " 150 mg " printed on the capsule body and " VISMO " printed on the capsule cap in black ink .
ERIVEDGE capsules are available in bottles of 28 capsules ( NDC 50242 - 140 - 01 ) .
Store at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] Females of Reproductive Potential • Advise women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise female patients and female partners of male patients to contact their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy .
• Inform females there is a Pregnancy Exposure Registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in females exposed to ERIVEDGE during pregnancy and that they can contact the Pregnancy Exposure Registry by calling 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose .
Males • Advise males , even those with prior vasectomy , to use condoms to avoid potential drug exposure in both pregnant partners and female partners of reproductive potential during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after the final dose .
• Advise males not to donate semen during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after the final dose .
Blood Donation • Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose .
Lactation • Advise women not to breastfeed during therapy with ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Severe Cutaneous Reactions • Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of severe cutaneous reactions .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs and symptoms of severe cutaneous reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
ERIVEDGE ® ( vismodegib ) capsules Manufactured by : Patheon , Inc .
Mississauga , Canada Distributed by : Genentech USA , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 ERIVEDGE is a registered trademark of Genentech , Inc . © 2020 Genentech , Inc .
All rights reserved .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : July 2020 MEDICATION GUIDE ERIVEDGE ® ( EH - rih - vej ) ( vismodegib ) capsule What is the most important information I should know about ERIVEDGE ?
ERIVEDGE can cause your baby to die before it is born ( be stillborn ) or cause your baby to have severe birth defects .
For females who can become pregnant : • You should talk with your healthcare provider about the risks of ERIVEDGE to your unborn child .
• Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test within 7 days before you start taking ERIVEDGE .
• In order to avoid pregnancy , you should use birth control during treatment and for 24 months after your final dose of ERIVEDGE .
Talk with your healthcare provider about what birth control method is right for you during this time .
• Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you have unprotected sex or if you think that your birth control has failed .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think that you may be pregnant .
For males : • ERIVEDGE is present in semen .
Do not donate semen while you are taking ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after your final dose .
• You should always use a condom , even if you have had a vasectomy , during sex with female partners who are pregnant or who are able to become pregnant , during treatment with ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after your final dose to protect your female partner from being exposed to ERIVEDGE .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if your partner becomes pregnant or thinks she is pregnant while you are taking ERIVEDGE .
Pregnancy Exposure Registry : There is a Pregnancy Exposure Registry for females taking ERIVEDGE who become pregnant .
The purpose of this registry is to monitor the health of you and your unborn baby .
If you think that you or your female partner may have been exposed to ERIVEDGE during pregnancy , talk to your healthcare provider right away .
If you become pregnant during treatment with ERIVEDGE , you or your healthcare provider should report your pregnancy to Genentech at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 .
What is ERIVEDGE ?
ERIVEDGE is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with a type of skin cancer , called basal cell carcinoma , that has spread to other parts of the body , or that has come back after surgery or that your healthcare provider decides cannot be treated with surgery or radiation .
It is not known if ERIVEDGE is safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ERIVEDGE ?
Before taking ERIVEDGE , tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See " What is the most important information I should know about ERIVEDGE ? "
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ERIVEDGE passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed during treatment and for 24 months after your final dose of ERIVEDGE .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during this time .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take ERIVEDGE ?
• Take ERIVEDGE exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• You can take ERIVEDGE with or without food .
• Swallow ERIVEDGE capsules whole .
Do not open or crush the capsules .
• Take ERIVEDGE 1 time each day .
• If you miss a dose , skip the missed dose .
Just take your next scheduled dose .
What should I avoid while taking ERIVEDGE ?
• Do not donate blood or blood products while you are taking ERIVEDGE and for 24 months after your final dose .
• For Males : Do not donate semen while you are taking ERIVEDGE and for 3 months after your final dose .
What are the possible side effects of ERIVEDGE ?
ERIVEDGE can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about ERIVEDGE ? "
• Severe skin reactions .
Severe skin reactions have happened in some people taking ERIVEDGE .
You may need to be treated in a hospital because these severe skin reactions can be life - threatening or lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following signs or symptoms of a severe skin reaction , including : • blisters or peeling of your skin • blisters on your lip , or around your mouth or eyes • mouth sores or genital sores • high fever or flu - like symptoms • enlarged lymph nodes • skin pain and burning • Your healthcare provider may permanently stop ERIVEDGE if you develop a severe skin reaction .
• Bone growth problems .
Bone growth problems have happened in children who have been exposed to ERIVEDGE .
These problems may continue even after stopping treatment with ERIVEDGE .
The common side effects of ERIVEDGE are : • muscle spasms • hair loss • change in how things taste or loss of taste • weight loss • tiredness • nausea • diarrhea • decreased appetite • constipation • joint pain • vomiting ERIVEDGE can cause absence of menstrual periods ( amenorrhea ) in females who are able to become pregnant .
It is not known if amenorrhea is permanent .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have concerns about fertility .
These are not all the possible side effects of ERIVEDGE .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Genentech , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 .
How should I store ERIVEDGE ?
• Store ERIVEDGE at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect ERIVEDGE from moisture .
Keep ERIVEDGE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ERIVEDGE .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ERIVEDGE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ERIVEDGE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ERIVEDGE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ERIVEDGE ?
Active ingredient : vismodegib Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , talc , magnesium stearate ( non - bovine ) .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , titanium dioxide , red iron oxide , and black iron oxide .
The black printing ink contains shellac and black iron oxide .
Manufactured by : Patheon , Inc .
Mississauga , Canada Distributed by : Genentech USA , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 ERIVEDGE is a registered trademark of Genentech , Inc . © 2020 Genentech , Inc .
For more information , call 1 - 855 - 737 - 4833 or go to www . erivedge . com Representative sample of labeling ( see the HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) : PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mg Capsule Bottle Carton NDC 50242 - 140 - 01 Erivedge ® ( vismodegib ) capsules 150 mg Each capsule contains 150 mg of vismodegib Attention Pharmacist : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
28 capsules Rx only Genentech 10181780 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
