Rx Only DESCRIPTION Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine drug having the chemical name 2 - ( Diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethylethylamine hydrochloride .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder , is freely soluble in water and alcohol and has a molecular weight of 291 . 82 .
The molecular formula is C 17 H 21 NO · HCl and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the parenteral form is a sterile , pyrogen - free solution .
Each mL contains a concentration of 50 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride and water for injection , for intramuscular or intravenous use .
The solution for parenteral use has been adjusted to a pH between 4 and 6 . 5 with either sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative side effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form has a rapid onset of action .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is widely distributed throughout the body , including the CNS .
A portion of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine , while the rest is metabolized via the liver .
Detailed information on the pharmacokinetics of Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Injection is not available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form is effective in adults and pediatric patients , other than premature infants and neonates , for the following conditions when diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the oral form is impractical .
Antihistaminic : For amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma , in anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute symptoms have been controlled , and for other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated .
Motion Sickness : For active treatment of motion sickness .
Antiparkinsonism : For use in parkinsonism , when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated , as follows : parkinsonism in the elderly who are unable to tolerate more potent agents ; mild cases of parkinsonism in other age groups , and in other cases of parkinsonism in combination with centrally acting anticholinergic agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use in Neonates or Premature Infants : This drug should not be used in neonates or premature infants .
Use in Nursing Mothers : Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally , and for neonates and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Use as a Local Anesthetic : Because of the risk of local necrosis , this drug should not be used as a local anesthetic .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , or bladder - neck obstruction .
Local necrosis has been associated with the use of subcutaneous or intradermal use of intravenous diphenhydramine .
Use in Pediatric Patients : In pediatric patients , especially , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
As in adults , antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in pediatric patients .
In the young pediatric patient , particularly , they may produce excitation .
Use in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) : Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS General : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has an atropine - like action and , therefore should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease or hypertension .
Use with caution in patients with lower respiratory disease including asthma .
Information for Patients : Patients taking diphenhydramine hydrochloride should be advised that this drug may cause drowsiness and has an additive effect with alcohol .
Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Drug Interactions : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc ) .
MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to determine mutagenic and carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 5 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Diphenhydramine should not be used in neonates and premature infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Diphenhydramine may diminish mental alertness , or in the young pediatric patient , cause excitation .
Overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death ( see WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ) .
See also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are underscored : • General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose , and throat .
• Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
• Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
• Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , neuritis , convulsions .
• GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
• GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
• Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest or throat and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
OVERDOSAGE Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in pediatric patients .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms ; dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THIS PRODUCT IS FOR INTRAVENOUS OR INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION ONLY .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the injectable form is indicated when the oral form is impractical .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Pediatric Patients , other than premature infants and neonates : 5 mg / kg / 24 hr or 150 mg / m 2 / 24 hr .
Maximum daily dosage is 300 mg .
Divide into four doses , administered intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg / min , or deep intramuscularly .
Adults : 10 mg to 50 mg intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg / min , or deep intramuscularly , 100 mg if required ; maximum daily dosage is 400 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a clear and colorless solution available as : 50 mg / mL in a 1 mL prefilled single - use syringe .
Available in a carton of twenty - four ( 24 ) syringes .
NDC 76045 - 102 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing and light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Do not place syringe on a sterile field .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE CAUTION : Certain glass syringes may malfunction , break or clog when connected to some Needleless Luer Access Devices ( NLADs ) and needles .
This syringe has a larger internal syringe tip and an external collar ( luer collar ) .
The external collar must remain attached to the syringe .
Data show that the syringe achieves acceptable connections with the BD Eclipse ™ Needle and the Terumo SurGuard2 ™ Safety Needle and with the following non - center post NLADs : Alaris SMARTSITE ™ , B - Braun ULTRASITE ™ , BD - Q SYTE ™ , Maximum MAX PLUS ™ , and B - Braun SAFSITE ™ .
The data also show acceptable connections are achieved to the center post ICU Medical CLAVE ™ .
However , spontaneous disconnection of this glass syringe from needles and NLADs with leakage of drug product may occur .
Assure that the needle or NLAD is securely attached before beginning the injection .
Visually inspect the glass syringe - needle or glass syringe – NLAD connection before and during drug administration .
Do not remove the clear plastic wrap around the external collar .
( See Figure 1 ) Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Inspect the outer packaging ( blister pack ) by verifying : • blister integrity • drug name • drug strength • dose volume • route of administration • expiration date to be sure that the drug has not expired • sterile field applicability Do not use if package has been damaged .
• Peel open the paper ( top web ) of the outer packaging that displays the product information to access the syringe .
Do not pop syringe through .
• Bend the plastic part of the outer packaging ( thermoform ) so as to present the plunger rod for syringe removal .
( See Figure 2 ) Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Perform visual inspection on the syringe by verifying : • absence of syringe damage • absence of external particles • absence of internal particles • proper drug color • expiration date to be sure that the drug has not expired • drug name • drug strength • dose volume • route of administration • integrity of the plastic wrap around the external collar • Do not remove plastic wrap around the external collar .
Push plunger rod slightly to break the stopper loose while tip cap is still on .
• Do not remove plastic wrap around the external collar .
Remove tip cap by twisting it off .
( See Figure 3 ) Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Discard the tip cap .
• Expel air bubble .
• Adjust dose into sterile material ( if applicable ) .
• Connect the syringe to appropriate injection connection depending on route of administration .
Before injection , ensure that the syringe is securely attached to the needle or needleless luer access device ( NLAD ) .
• Depress plunger rod to deliver medication .
Ensure that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration .
• Remove syringe from NLAD ( if applicable ) and discard into appropriate receptacle .
If delivering the medication with a needle , to prevent needle stick injuries , do not recap needle .
NOTES : • - All steps must be done sequentially • - Do not autoclave syringe • - Do not use this product on a sterile field • - Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time • - This product is for single dose only For more information concerning this drug , please call Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The brand names mentioned in this document are the trademarks of their respective owners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . us D1023P01 Rev : July 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Diphenhydramine 1 mL Carton Panel Rx only NDC 76045 - 102 - 10 DiphenhydrAMINE HCl Injection , USP HIGH POTENCY 50 mg / mL For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
24 X 1 mL Prefilled Single - use Syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Diphenhydramine 1 mL Blister Pack Label NDC 76045 - 102 - 10 DiphenhydrAMINE HCl Injection , USP 50 mg / mL HIGH POTENCY 1 mL Prefilled single use syringe .
Rx Only For IV or IM use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Diphenhydramine 1 mL Syringe Label 1 mL Single - use For IV or IM use .
DiphenhydrAMINE HCl Injection , USP HIGH POTENCY , Rx Only 50 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
