1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AXERT ® is a 5HT1B / 1 D receptor agonist ( triptan ) indicated for : • Acute treatment of migraine attacks in adults with a history of migraine with or without aura ( 1 . 1 ) • Acute treatment of migraine headache pain in adolescents age 12 to 17 years with a history of migraine with or without aura , and who have migraine attacks usually lasting 4 hours or more ( 1 . 1 ) Important limitations : • Use only after a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 . 2 ) • In adolescents age 12 to 17 years , efficacy of AXERT ® on migraine - associated symptoms was not established ( 1 . 2 ) • Not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine ( 1 . 2 ) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Acute Treatment of Migraine Attacks Adults AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks in patients with a history of migraine with or without aura .
Adolescents Age 12 to 17 Years AXERT ® is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine headache pain in patients with a history of migraine attacks with or without aura usually lasting 4 hours or more ( when untreated ) .
1 . 2 Important Limitations AXERT ® should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
If a patient has no response for the first migraine attack treated with AXERT ® , the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before AXERT ® is administered to treat any subsequent attacks .
In adolescents age 12 to 17 years , efficacy of AXERT ® on migraine - associated symptoms ( nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia ) was not established .
AXERT ® is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 7 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of AXERT ® have not been established for cluster headache which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults and adolescents age 12 to 17 years : 6 . 25 mg or 12 . 5 mg single dose ; may repeat after 2 hours if headache returns ; benefit of second dose in patients who have failed to respond to first dose has not been established ; maximum daily dose 25 mg ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients with hepatic or severe renal impairment : 6 . 25 mg starting dose ; maximum daily dose 12 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Acute Treatment of Migraine Attacks The recommended dose of AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) in adults and adolescents age 12 to 17 years is 6 . 25 mg to 12 . 5 mg , with the 12 . 5 mg dose tending to be a more effective dose in adults .
As individuals may vary in their response to different doses of AXERT ® , the choice of dose should be made on an individual basis .
If the headache is relieved after the initial AXERT ® dose but returns , the dose may be repeated after 2 hours .
The effectiveness of a second dose has not been established in placebo - controlled trials .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 25 mg .
The safety of treating an average of more than four migraines in a 30 - day period has not been established .
2 . 2 Hepatic Impairment The recommended starting dose of AXERT ® in patients with hepatic impairment is 6 . 25 mg .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg over a 24 - hour period [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Renal Impairment The recommended starting dose of AXERT ® in patients with severe renal impairment is 6 . 25 mg .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg over a 24 - hour period [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets are available as white , coated , circular , biconvex tablets in the following dosage strengths : 6 . 25 mg tablet with red code imprint " 2080 " 12 . 5 mg tablet with blue stylized imprint " A . " Tablets : 6 . 25 mg and 12 . 5 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Ischemic heart disease , coronary artery vasospasm , or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease ( 4 . 1 ) • Cerebrovascular syndromes ( e . g . , history of stroke or TIA ) ( 4 . 2 ) • Peripheral vascular disease ( including ischemic bowel disease ) ( 4 . 3 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 . 4 ) • Do not use AXERT ® within 24 hours of an ergotamine - containing , or ergot - type medication , or of another 5 - HT1 agonist , e . g . , another triptan ( 4 . 5 , 4 . 6 ) • Hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 . 7 ) • Known hypersensitivity to AXERT ® ( 4 . 8 ) 4 . 1 Ischemic or Vasospastic Coronary Artery Disease , or Other Significant Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Do not use AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) in patients with ischemic heart disease ( angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) , or in patients who have symptoms or findings consistent with ischemic heart disease , coronary artery vasospasm , including Prinzmetal ' s variant angina , or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Cerebrovascular Syndromes Do not use AXERT ® in patients with cerebrovascular syndromes including ( but not limited to ) stroke of any type as well as transient ischemic attacks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
4 . 3 Peripheral Vascular Disease Do not use AXERT ® in patients with peripheral vascular disease including ( but not limited to ) ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
4 . 4 Uncontrolled Hypertension Because AXERT ® may increase blood pressure , do not use AXERT ® in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
4 . 5 Ergotamine - Containing and Ergot - Type Medications Do not use AXERT ® and ergotamine - containing or ergot - derived medications like dihydroergotamine , ergotamine tartrate , or methysergide within 24 hours of each other [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 6 Concomitant Use With 5 - HT1 Agonists ( e . g . , Triptans ) AXERT ® and other 5 - HT1 agonists ( e . g . , triptans ) should not be administered within 24 hours of each other [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 7 Hemiplegic or Basilar Migraine Do not use AXERT ® in patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
4 . 8 Hypersensitivity AXERT ® is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to almotriptan or any of its inactive ingredients .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction and life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm ( 5 . 1 ) • It is strongly recommended that AXERT ® not be given to patients in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease ( CAD ) is predicted by the presence of risk factors .
In very rare cases , serious cardiovascular events have been reported in association with AXERT ® use in the absence of known cardiovascular disease .
If AXERT ® is considered , patients should first have a cardiovascular evaluation .
If the evaluation is satisfactory , first dose should take place in a physician ' s office setting ( 5 . 1 ) • Sensations of pain , tightness , pressure , and heaviness in the chest , throat , neck , and jaw : generally not associated with myocardial ischemia , but patients with signs or symptoms suggestive of angina should be evaluated for the presence of CAD ( 5 . 2 ) • Cerebrovascular events , some fatal ( 5 . 3 ) • Gastrointestinal ischemic events and peripheral vasospastic reactions ( e . g . , Raynaud ' s syndrome ) ( 5 . 4 ) • Potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome , particularly in combination with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor patients for neurologic changes and gastrointestinal symptoms if concomitant treatment is clinically warranted ( 5 . 5 , 7 . 3 ) • Increase in blood pressure , very rarely associated with significant clinical events ( 4 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Use with caution in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events Cardiac Events and Fatalities with 5 - HT1 Agonists Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , have been reported within a few hours following administration of AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) .
Life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of other triptans .
Considering the extent of use of triptans in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
AXERT ® can cause coronary vasospasm ; at least one of these events occurred in a patient with no cardiac history and with documented absence of coronary artery disease .
Because of the close proximity of the events to use of AXERT ® , a causal relationship cannot be excluded .
Patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following dosing should be evaluated for the presence of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) or a predisposition to Prinzmetal ' s variant angina before receiving additional doses of medication , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Premarketing Experience with AXERT ® in Adults Among the 3865 subjects / patients who received AXERT ® in premarketing clinical trials , one patient was hospitalized for observation after a scheduled electrocardiogram ( ECG ) was found to be abnormal ( negative T - waves on the left leads ) 48 hours after taking a single 6 . 25 mg dose of almotriptan .
The patient , a 48 - year - old female , had previously taken 3 other doses for earlier migraine attacks .
Myocardial enzymes at the time of the abnormal ECG were normal .
The patient was diagnosed as having had myocardial ischemia and that she had a family history of coronary disease .
An ECG performed 2 days later was normal , as was a follow - up coronary angiography .
The patient recovered without incident .
Postmarketing Experience with AXERT ® in Adults Serious cardiovascular events have been reported in association with the use of AXERT ® .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to definitively determine the proportion of the reported cases that were actually caused by almotriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with Documented Coronary Artery Disease Because of the potential of this class of compound ( 5 - HT1 agonists ) to cause coronary vasospasm , AXERT ® should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with Risk Factors for CAD It is strongly recommended that AXERT ® not be given to patients in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ' s medical history , electrocardiographic or other investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with , coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , AXERT ® should not be administered [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of AXERT ® take place in the setting of a physician ' s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received AXERT ® .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an ECG during the interval immediately following AXERT ® , in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of AXERT ® and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use AXERT ® .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to AXERT ® .
The ability of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect all cardiovascular diseases or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest at best .
Cardiovascular events associated with triptan treatment have occurred in patients with no cardiac history and with documented absence of coronary artery disease .
5 . 2 Sensations of Pain , Tightness , Pressure in the Chest and / or Throat , Neck , and Jaw As with other 5 - HT1 agonists , sensations of tightness , pain , pressure , and heaviness in the precordium , throat , neck , and jaw have been reported after treatment with AXERT ® .
Because 5 - HT1 agonists may cause coronary vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following dosing should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal ' s variant angina before receiving additional doses of medication , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms occur .
Patients shown to have CAD and those with Prinzmetal ' s variant angina should not receive 5 - HT1 agonists [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with other triptans and some events have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appeared possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the triptan having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
As with other acute migraine therapies , before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs and in migraineurs who present with atypical symptoms , care should be taken to exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions .
It should be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , stroke , hemorrhage , and transient ischemic attack ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Other Vasospasm - Related Events , Including Peripheral Vascular Ischemia and Colonic Ischemia Triptans , including AXERT ® , may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm , such as peripheral and gastrointestinal vascular ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea .
Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of triptans .
Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack .
Patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow following the use of any triptan , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud ' s syndrome , are candidates for further evaluation [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including AXERT ® , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
If concomitant treatment with AXERT ® and an SSRI ( e . g . , fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , citalopram , escitalopram ) or SNRI ( e . g . , venlafaxine , duloxetine ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) [ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Increases in Blood Pressure As with other triptans , significant elevations in systemic blood pressure have been reported on rare occasions with AXERT ® use in patients with and without a history of hypertension ; very rarely these increases in blood pressure have been associated with significant clinical events .
AXERT ® is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 4 ) ] .
In normotensive healthy subjects and patients with hypertension controlled by medication , small , but clinically insignificant , increases in mean systolic ( 0 . 21 and 4 . 87 mm Hg , respectively ) and diastolic ( 1 . 35 and 0 . 26 mm Hg , respectively ) blood pressure relative to placebo were seen over the first 4 hours after oral administration of 12 . 5 mg of almotriptan .
An 18 % increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure was seen following dosing with another triptan in a study evaluating subjects undergoing cardiac catheterization .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity to Sulfonamides Caution should be exercised when prescribing AXERT ® to patients with known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
The chemical structure of almotriptan contains a sulfonyl group , which is structurally different from a sulfonamide .
Cross - sensitivity to almotriptan in patients allergic to sulfonamides has not been systematically evaluated .
5 . 8 Impaired Hepatic or Renal Function AXERT ® should be administered with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption , metabolism , or excretion of drugs , such as those with impaired hepatic or renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 9 Binding to Melanin - Containing Tissues When pigmented rats were given a single oral dose of 5 mg / kg of radiolabeled almotriptan , the elimination half - life of radioactivity from the eye was 22 days .
This finding suggests that almotriptan and / or its metabolites may bind to melanin in the eye .
Because almotriptan could accumulate in melanin - rich tissues over time , there is the possibility that it could cause toxicity in these tissues with extended use .
However , no adverse retinal effects related to treatment with almotriptan were noted in a 52 - week toxicity study in dogs given up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( resulting in exposure [ AUC ] to parent drug approximately 20 times that in humans receiving the maximum recommended human dose of 25 mg / day ) .
Although no systematic monitoring of ophthalmologic function was undertaken in clinical trials , and no specific recommendations for ophthalmologic monitoring are offered , prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long - term ophthalmologic effects .
5 . 10 Corneal Opacities Three male dogs ( out of a total of 14 treated ) in a 52 - week toxicity study of oral almotriptan developed slight corneal opacities that were noted after 51 weeks , but not after 25 weeks of treatment .
The doses at which this occurred were 2 , 5 , and 12 . 5 mg / kg / day .
The opacity reversed after a 4 - week drug - free period in the affected dog treated with the highest dose .
Systemic exposure ( plasma AUC ) to parent drug at 2 mg / kg / day was approximately 2 . 5 times the exposure in humans receiving the maximum recommended human daily dose of 25 mg .
A no - effect dose was not established .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac reactions , including myocardial infarction , have occurred following the use of AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets .
These reactions are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Reactions reported in association with triptans have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Sensations of Pain , Tightness , Pressure in the Chest and / or Throat , Neck , and Jaw [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Other Vasospasm - Related Events , Including Peripheral Vascular Ischemia and Colonic Ischemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Increases in Blood Pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Adverse events were assessed in controlled clinical trials that included 1840 adult patients who received one or two doses of AXERT ® and 386 adult patients who received placebo .
The most common adverse reactions during treatment with AXERT ® were nausea , somnolence , headache , paresthesia , and dry mouth .
In long - term open - label studies where patients were allowed to treat multiple attacks for up to 1 year , 5 % ( 63 out of 1347 patients ) withdrew due to adverse experiences .
Adverse events were assessed in controlled clinical trials that included 362 adolescent patients who received AXERT ® and 172 adolescent patients who received placebo .
The most common adverse reactions during treatment with AXERT ® were dizziness , somnolence , headache , paresthesia , nausea , and vomiting .
In a long - term , open - label study where patients were allowed to treat multiple attacks for up to 1 year , 2 % ( 10 out of 420 adolescent patients ) withdrew due to adverse events .
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % and greater than placebo ) are : • In adults : nausea , dry mouth and paresthesia ( 6 . 1 ) • In adolescents : dizziness , somnolence , headache , paresthesia , nausea and vomiting ( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Scientific Affairs Customer Communications Center at 1 - 800 - 526 - 7736 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Commonly - Observed Adverse Reactions in Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled AXERT ® Clinical Trials Adults Table 1 lists the adverse events that occurred in at least 1 % of the adult patients treated with AXERT ® , and at an incidence greater than in patients treated with placebo , regardless of drug relationship .
Table 1 .
Incidence of Adverse Events in Controlled Clinical Trials ( Reported in at Least 1 % of Adult Patients Treated with AXERT ® , and at an Incidence Greater than Placebo ) System / Organ Class Adverse Event AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg ( n = 527 ) % AXERT ® 12 . 5 mg ( n = 1313 ) % Placebo ( n = 386 ) % Digestive Disorders Nausea 1 2 1 Dry mouth 1 1 0 . 5 Nervous System Disorders Paresthesia 1 1 0 . 5 The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender , weight , age , presence of aura , or use of prophylactic medications or oral contraceptives .
There were insufficient data to assess the effect of race on the incidence of adverse events .
Adolescents Table 2 lists the adverse reactions reported by 1 % or more of AXERT ® - treated adolescents age 12 to 17 years in 1 placebo - controlled , double - blind clinical trial .
Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 1 % of Adolescent Patients Treated with AXERT ® in 1 Placebo - Controlled , Double - Blind Clinical TrialSystem / Organ Class Adverse Reaction AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg ( n = 180 ) % AXERT ® 12 . 5 mg ( n = 182 ) % Placebo ( n = 172 ) % Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 4 3 2 Somnolence < 1 5 2 Headache 1 2 1 Paresthesia < 1 1 < 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 1 3 0 Vomiting 2 0 < 1 6 . 2 Other Adverse Reactions Observed in AXERT ® Clinical Trials In the paragraphs that follow , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical reactions are presented .
The reports include adverse reactions in 5 adult controlled studies and 1 adolescent controlled study .
Variability associated with adverse reaction reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse reactions , etc . , limit the value of the quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Reaction frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used AXERT ® and reported a reaction divided by the total number of patients exposed to AXERT ® ( n = 3047 , all doses ) .
All reported reactions are included except those already listed in the previous table , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Reactions are further classified within system organ class and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse reactions are those occurring in 1 / 100 or more patients , infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients , and rare adverse reactions are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1000 patients .
Body : Frequent : Headache .
Infrequent : Abdominal cramp or pain , Asthenia , Chills , Back pain , Chest pain , Neck pain , Fatigue , and Rigid neck .
Rare : Fever and Photosensitivity reaction .
Cardiovascular : Infrequent : Vasodilation , Palpitations , and Tachycardia .
Rare : Hypertension and Syncope .
Digestive : Infrequent : Diarrhea , Vomiting , Dyspepsia , Gastroenteritis , and Increased thirst .
Rare : Colitis , Gastritis , Esophageal reflux , and Increased salivation .
Metabolic : Infrequent : Hyperglycemia and Increased serum creatine phosphokinase .
Rare : Increased gamma glutamyl transpeptidase and Hypercholesteremia .
Musculo - Skeletal : Infrequent : Myalgia .
Rare : Arthralgia , Arthritis , Myopathy , and Muscle weakness .
Nervous : Frequent : Dizziness and Somnolence .
Infrequent : Tremor , Vertigo , Anxiety , Hypoesthesia , Restlessness , CNS stimulation , and Shakiness .
Rare : Change in dreams , Impaired concentration , Abnormal coordination , Depressive symptoms , Euphoria , Hyperreflexia , Hypertonia , Nervousness , Neuropathy , Nightmares , Nystagmus , and Insomnia .
Respiratory : Infrequent : Pharyngitis , Rhinitis , Dyspnea , Laryngismus , Sinusitis , and Bronchitis .
Rare : Hyperventilation , Laryngitis , Sneezing , and Epistaxis .
Skin : Infrequent : Diaphoresis , Pruritus , and Rash .
Rare : Dermatitis and Erythema .
Special Senses : Infrequent : Ear pain and Tinnitus .
Rare : Diplopia , Dry eyes , Eye pain , Otitis media , Parosmia , Scotoma , Conjunctivitis , Eye irritation , Hyperacusis , and Taste alteration .
Urogenital : Infrequent : Dysmenorrhea .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of AXERT ® .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders : Anaphylactic shock Psychiatric Disorders : Confusional state , Restlessness Nervous System Disorders : Hemiplegia , Hypoesthesia , Seizures Eye Disorders : Blepharospasm Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Vertigo Cardiac Disorders : Acute myocardial infarction , Coronary artery vasospasm , Angina pectoris , Tachycardia Gastrointestinal Disorders : Abdominal discomfort , Abdominal pain , Abdominal pain upper , Colitis , Hypoesthesia oral , Swollen tongue Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Angioedema , Cold sweat , Erythema , Hyperhidrosis Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue , and Bone Disorders : Arthralgia , Myalgia , Pain in extremity Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Breast pain General Disorders : Malaise , Peripheral coldness .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For additional detailed information on drug interactions , see Clinical Pharmacology , Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) .
• Do not use AXERT ® and ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications within 24 hours of each other ( 4 . 5 , 7 . 1 ) • Do not use AXERT ® and other 5 - HT1 agonists ( e . g . , triptans ) within 24 hours of each other ( 4 . 6 , 7 . 2 ) • SSRI or SNRI : life - threatening serotonin syndrome reported during combined use with triptans ( 5 . 5 , 7 . 3 ) • Ketoconazole : use single dose of AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg ; maximum AXERT ® daily dose 12 . 5 mg ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Ergot - Containing Drugs These drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because , in theory , vasospastic effects may be additive , ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine , ergotamine tartrate , or methysergide ) and AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) should not be used within 24 hours of each other [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 25 - HT1 Agonists ( e . g . , Triptans ) Concomitant use of other 5 - HT1 agonists ( e . g . , triptans ) within 24 hours of treatment with AXERT ® is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors Cases of life - threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 4 Ketoconazole and Other Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors Co - administration of almotriptan and oral ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , resulted in an approximately 60 % increase in exposure of almotriptan .
Increased exposures to almotriptan may be expected when almotriptan is used concomitantly with other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors .
In patients concomitantly using potent CYP3A4 inhibitors , the recommended starting dose of AXERT ® is 6 . 25 mg .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg within a 24 - hour period .
Concomitant use of AXERT ® and potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing mothers : use AXERT ® with caution ( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : AXERT ® has not been studied in children under 12 years ( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric use : insufficient safety and efficacy data ; use with caution , usually starting with the 6 . 25 mg dose ( 8 . 5 ) • Hepatic impairment : use single 6 . 25 mg tablet as a starting dose ; maximum daily dose 12 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) • Severe renal impairment : use single 6 . 25 mg tablet as a starting dose ; maximum daily dose 12 . 5 mg ( 2 . 3 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In animal studies , almotriptan produced developmental toxicity ( increased embryolethality and fetal skeletal variations , and decreased offspring body weight ) at doses greater than those used clinically .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women ; therefore , AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
When almotriptan ( 125 , 250 , 500 , or 1000 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally to pregnant rats throughout the period of organogenesis , increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations ( decreased ossification ) were noted at a dose of 250 mg / kg / day or greater and an increase in embryolethality was seen at the highest dose .
The no - effect dose for embryo - fetal developmental toxicity in rats ( 125 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 100 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 25 mg / day on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Similar studies in pregnant rabbits conducted with almotriptan ( oral doses of 5 , 20 , or 60 mg / kg / day ) demonstrated increases in embryolethality at the highest dose .
The no - effect dose for embryo - fetal developmental toxicity in rabbits ( 20 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 15 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
When almotriptan ( 25 , 100 , or 400 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally to rats throughout the periods of gestation and lactation , gestation length was increased and litter size and offspring body weight were decreased at the highest dose .
The decrease in pup weight persisted throughout lactation .
The no - effect dose in this study ( 100 mg / kg / day ) is 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effect of AXERT ® on labor and delivery in humans is unknown .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether almotriptan is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AXERT ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Levels of almotriptan in rat milk were up to 7 times higher than in rat plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of AXERT ® in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years have not been established .
The pharmacokinetics , efficacy , and safety of AXERT ® have been evaluated in adolescent patients , age 12 to 17 years [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
In a clinical study , AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg and 12 . 5 mg were found to be effective for the relief of migraine headache pain in adolescent patients age 12 to 17 years .
Efficacy on migraine - associated symptoms ( nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia ) was not established .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence of ≥ 1 % ) associated with AXERT ® treatment were dizziness , somnolence , headache , paresthesia , nausea , and vomiting [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and tolerability profile of AXERT ® treatment in adolescents is similar to the profile observed in adults .
Postmarketing experience with other triptans include a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced clinically serious adverse events that are similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of AXERT ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Clearance of almotriptan was lower in elderly volunteers than in younger individuals , but there were no observed differences in the safety and tolerability between the two populations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low dose , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The recommended dose of AXERT ® for elderly patients with normal renal function for their age is the same as that recommended for younger adults .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The recommended starting dose of AXERT ® in patients with hepatic impairment is 6 . 25 mg .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg over a 24 - hour period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The recommended starting dose of AXERT ® in patients with severe renal impairment is 6 . 25 mg .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 12 . 5 mg over a 24 - hour period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms Patients and volunteers receiving single oral doses of 100 to 150 mg of almotriptan did not experience significant adverse events .
Six additional normal volunteers received single oral doses of 200 mg without serious adverse events .
During clinical trials with AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) , one patient ingested 62 . 5 mg in a 5 - hour period and another patient ingested 100 mg in a 38 - hour period .
Neither patient experienced adverse reactions .
Based on the pharmacology of triptans , hypertension or other more serious cardiovascular symptoms could occur after overdosage .
10 . 2 Recommended Treatment Gastrointestinal decontamination ( i . e . , gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal ) should be considered in patients suspected of an overdose with AXERT ® .
Clinical and electrocardiographic monitoring should be continued for at least 20 hours even if clinical symptoms are not observed .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on plasma concentrations of almotriptan .
11 DESCRIPTION AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets contain almotriptan malate , a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine1B / 1 D ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist .
Almotriptan malate is chemically designated as 1 - [ [ [ 3 - [ 2 - ( Dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - 1 H - indol - 5 - yl ] methyl ] sulfonyl ] pyrrolidine ( ± ) - hydroxybutanedioate ( 1 : 1 ) and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C17H25N3O2S - C4H6O5 , representing a molecular weight of 469 . 56 .
Almotriptan is a white to slightly yellow crystalline powder that is soluble in water .
AXERT ® for oral administration contains almotriptan malate equivalent to 6 . 25 or 12 . 5 mg of almotriptan .
Each compressed tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , sodium stearyl fumarate , titanium dioxide , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , iron oxide ( 6 . 25 mg only ) , FD & C Blue No . 2 ( 12 . 5 mg only ) , and carnauba wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Almotriptan binds with high affinity to 5 - HT1D , 5 - HT1B , and 5 - HT1F receptors .
Almotriptan has weak affinity for 5 - HT1A and 5 - HT7 receptors , but has no significant affinity or pharmacological activity at 5 - HT2 , 5 - HT3 , 5 - HT4 , 5 - HT6 ; alpha or beta adrenergic ; adenosine ( A1 , A2 ) ; angiotensin ( AT1 , AT2 ) ; dopamine ( D1 , D2 ) ; endothelin ( ETA , ETB ) ; or tachykinin ( NK1 , NK2 , NK3 ) binding sites .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Current theories on the etiology of migraine headache suggest that symptoms are due to local cranial vasodilatation and / or to the release of vasoactive and pro - inflammatory peptides from sensory nerve endings in an activated trigeminal system .
The therapeutic activity of almotriptan in migraine can most likely be attributed to agonist effects at 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptors on the extracerebral , intracranial blood vessels that become dilated during a migraine attack and on nerve terminals in the trigeminal system .
Activation of these receptors results in cranial vessel constriction , inhibition of neuropeptide release , and reduced transmission in trigeminal pain pathways .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute bioavailability of almotriptan is about 70 % , with peak plasma levels occurring 1 to 3 hours after administration ; food does not affect pharmacokinetics .
Distribution Almotriptan is minimally protein bound ( approximately 35 % ) and the mean apparent volume of distribution is approximately 180 to 200 liters .
Metabolism Almotriptan is metabolized by two major and one minor pathways .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) - mediated oxidative deamination ( approximately 27 % of the dose ) , and cytochrome P450 - mediated oxidation ( approximately 12 % of the dose ) are the major routes of metabolism , while flavin monooxygenase is the minor route .
MAO - A is responsible for the formation of the indoleacetic acid metabolite , whereas cytochrome P450 ( 3A4 and 2D6 ) catalyzes the hydroxylation of the pyrrolidine ring to an intermediate that is further oxidized by aldehyde dehydrogenase to the gamma - aminobutyric acid derivative .
Both metabolites are inactive .
Excretion Almotriptan has a mean half - life of 3 to 4 hours .
Almotriptan is eliminated primarily by renal excretion ( about 75 % of the oral dose ) , with approximately 40 % of an administered dose excreted unchanged in urine .
Renal clearance exceeds the glomerular filtration rate by approximately 3 - fold , indicating an active mechanism .
Approximately 13 % of the administered dose is excreted via feces , both unchanged and metabolized .
Drug - Drug Interactions All drug interaction studies were performed in healthy volunteers using a single 12 . 5 mg dose of almotriptan and multiple doses of the other drug .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Co - administration of almotriptan and moclobemide ( 150 mg twice daily for 8 days ) resulted in a 27 % decrease in almotriptan clearance and an increase in Cmax of approximately 6 % .
No dose adjustment is necessary .
Propranolol Co - administration of almotriptan and propranolol ( 80 mg twice daily for 7 days ) resulted in no significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of almotriptan .
Fluoxetine Co - administration of almotriptan and fluoxetine ( 60 mg daily for 8 days ) , a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 , had no effect on almotriptan clearance , but maximal concentrations of almotriptan were increased 18 % .
This difference is not clinically significant .
Verapamil Co - administration of almotriptan and verapamil ( 120 mg sustained - release tablets twice daily for 7 days ) , an inhibitor of CYP3A4 , resulted in a 20 % increase in the area under the plasma concentration - time curve , and in a 24 % increase in maximal plasma concentrations of almotriptan .
Neither of these changes is clinically significant .
No dose adjustment is necessary .
Ketoconazole and other Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors Co - administration of almotriptan and ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor , resulted in an approximately 60 % increase in exposure of almotriptan .
Increased exposures to almotriptan may be expected when almotriptan is used with other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors .
Special Populations Geriatric Renal and total clearance , and amount of drug excreted in the urine , were lower in elderly healthy volunteers ( age 65 to 76 years ) than in younger healthy volunteers ( age 19 to 34 years ) , resulting in longer terminal half - life ( 3 . 7 hours vs . 3 . 2 hours ) and a 25 % higher area under the plasma concentration - time curve in the elderly subjects .
The differences , however , do not appear to be clinically significant .
Pediatric A pharmacokinetics study of almotriptan was conducted in adolescents ( 12 to 17 years ) and adults ( 18 to 55 years ) with or without a history of migraine .
No differences were observed in the rate or extent of absorption of almotriptan in adolescents compared with adults .
Gender No significant gender differences were observed in pharmacokinetic parameters .
Race No significant differences were observed in pharmacokinetic parameters between Caucasian and African - American volunteers .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of almotriptan have not been assessed in patients with hepatic impairment .
Based on the known mechanisms of clearance of almotriptan , the maximum decrease expected in almotriptan clearance due to hepatic impairment would be 60 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Renal Impairment The clearance of almotriptan was approximately 65 % lower in patients with severe renal impairment ( Cl / F = 19 . 8 L / hour ; creatinine clearance between 10 and 30 mL / min ) and approximately 40 % lower in patients with moderate renal impairment ( Cl / F = 34 . 2 L / hour ; creatinine clearance between 31 and 71 mL / min ) than in healthy volunteers ( Cl / F = 57 L / hour ) .
Maximal plasma concentrations of almotriptan increased by approximately 80 % in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Almotriptan was administered to mice and rats for up to 103 – 104 weeks at oral doses up to 250 mg / kg / day and 75 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses were associated with plasma exposures ( AUC ) to parent drug that were approximately 40 and 80 times , in mice and rats respectively , the plasma AUC in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 25 mg / day .
Because of high mortality rates in both studies , which reached statistical significance in high - dose female mice , all female rats , all male mice , and high - dose female mice were terminated between weeks 96 and 98 .
There was no increase in tumors related to almotriptan administration .
Mutagenesis Almotriptan was not mutagenic in two in vitro gene mutation assays , the Ames test , and the mouse lymphoma tk assay .
Almotriptan was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility When male and female rats received almotriptan ( 25 , 100 , or 400 mg / kg / day ) orally prior to and during mating and gestation , prolongation of the estrous cycle was observed at the mid - dose and greater , and fertility was impaired at the highest dose .
Subsequent mating of treated with untreated animals indicated that the decrease in fertility was due to an effect on females .
The no - effect dose for reproductive toxicity in rats ( 25 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adults The efficacy of AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) was established in three multi - center , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled European trials .
Patients enrolled in these studies were primarily female ( 86 % ) and Caucasian ( more than 98 % ) , with a mean age of 41 years ( range of 18 to 72 ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe migraine headache .
Two hours after taking one dose of study medication , patients evaluated their headache pain .
If the pain had not decreased in severity to mild or no pain , the patient was allowed to take an escape medication .
If the pain had decreased to mild or no pain at 2 hours but subsequently increased in severity between 2 and 24 hours , it was considered a relapse and the patient was instructed to take a second dose of study medication .
Associated symptoms of nausea , vomiting , photophobia , and phonophobia were also evaluated .
In these studies , the percentage of patients achieving a response ( mild or no pain ) 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater in patients who received either AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg or 12 . 5 mg , compared with those who received placebo .
A higher percentage of patients reported pain relief after treatment with the 12 . 5 mg dose than with the 6 . 25 mg dose .
Doses greater than 12 . 5 mg did not lead to a significantly better response .
These results are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Response Rates 2 Hours Following Treatment of Initial Headache in Adults Placebo AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg AXERT ® 12 . 5 mg Study 1 33 . 8 % ( n = 80 ) 55 . 4 % [ 1 ] ( n = 166 ) 58 . 5 % [ 2 ] ( n = 164 ) Study 2 40 . 0 % ( n = 95 ) --- 57 . 1 % [ 3 ] ( n = 175 ) Study 3 33 . 0 % ( n = 176 ) 55 . 6 % null ( n = 360 ) 64 . 9 % null ( n = 370 ) [ 1 ] p value 0 . 002 in comparison with placebo [ 2 ] p value < 0 . 001 in comparison with placebo [ 3 ] p value 0 . 008 in comparison with placebo The estimated probability of achieving pain relief within 2 hours following initial treatment with AXERT ® in adults is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 .
Estimated Probability of Achieving an Initial Headache Response ( Mild or no Pain ) in 2 Hours in Adults [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Kaplan - Meier plot is based on data obtained in the three placebo - controlled clinical trials that provided evidence of efficacy ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Patients not achieving pain relief by 2 hours were censored at 2 hours .
For patients with migraine - associated photophobia , phonophobia , nausea , and vomiting at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of AXERT ® compared with placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study medication , patients were allowed to take an escape medication or a second dose of study medication for pain response .
The estimated probability of patients taking escape medication or a second dose of study medication over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study medication is shown in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 .
Estimated Probability of Adult Patients Taking Escape Medication or a Second Dose of Study Medication Over the 24 Hours Following the Initial Dose of Study Treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Kaplan - Meier plot is based on data obtained in the three placebo - controlled trials that provided evidence of efficacy ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Patients not using additional treatment were censored at 24 hours .
Remedication was not allowed within 2 hours after the initial dose of AXERT ® .
The efficacy of AXERT ® was unaffected by the presence of aura ; by gender , weight , or age of the patient ; or by concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , and tricyclic antidepressants ) ; or oral contraceptives .
There were insufficient data to assess the effect of race on efficacy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Adolescents Age 12 to 17 Years The efficacy of AXERT ® in adolescent patients age 12 to 17 years was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled study .
Patients enrolled in that study had at least a 1 - year history of migraine attacks with or without aura usually lasting 4 hours or more ( when untreated ) .
Patients enrolled in the study were primarily females ( 60 % ) and Caucasian ( 75 % ) , while 15 % of patients were black , and 10 % were of other races .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe migraine headache .
Two hours after taking one dose of study medication , patients evaluated their headache pain .
Associated symptoms of nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia were also evaluated .
In this study , the percentage of patients achieving a pain relief response ( mild or no pain ) 2 hours after treatment was statistically significantly greater in patients who received AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg or 12 . 5 mg compared with those who received placebo .
There was no additional benefit on pain relief provided by the 12 . 5 mg dose .
The 2 - hour pain relief results are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 .
Response Rates 2 Hours Following Treatment of Initial Headache in Adolescents Age 12 to 17 Years Placebo AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg AXERT ® 12 . 5 mg Study 1 55 . 3 % ( n / N = 94 / 170 ) 71 . 8 % [ 1 ] ( n / N = 127 / 177 ) 72 . 9 % [ 2 ] ( n / N = 132 / 181 ) [ 1 ] p value 0 . 001 in comparison with placebo [ 2 ] p value < 0 . 001 in comparison with placebo The estimated probability of achieving pain relief within 2 hours following initial treatment with AXERT ® in adolescents age 12 to 17 years is shown in Figure 3 .
Figure 3 .
Estimated Probability of Achieving an Initial Headache Response ( Mild or no Pain ) in 2 Hours in the Adolescent Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] The prevalence of the migraine - associated symptoms ( nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia ) at 2 hours after taking the dose was not significantly different between patients who received AXERT ® 6 . 25 mg or 12 . 5 mg and those who received placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets are available as follows : 12 . 5 mg : White , coated , circular , biconvex tablets with blue stylized imprint " A . " Unit Dose ( aluminum blister pack ) 12 tablets NDC 54868 - 5527 - 1 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling 17 . 1 Patient Information Leaflet Inform patients that Patient Information labeling is available as a separate leaflet .
Advise the patient to read this information and assist them in understanding its contents .
Provide the patient the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Patient Information and answer any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Patient Information is attached to the package insert .
17 . 2 Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction , Other Adverse Cardiac Events , Other Vasospasm - Related Events , and Cerebrovascular Events Inform patients that AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) may cause serious cardiovascular side effects such as myocardial infarction or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious cardiovascular events can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , or slurring of speech , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms .
Apprise the patient of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) , and ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome Caution patients about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of AXERT ® or other triptans , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 4 Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their physician if they become pregnant during treatment or intend to become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 5 Nursing Mothers Advise patients to notify their physician if they are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 6 Drug Interactions Advise patients to talk with their physician or pharmacist before taking any new medicines , including prescription and non - prescription drugs and supplements [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 5 ) and ( 4 . 6 ) and Drug - Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
17 . 7 Ability to Operate Machinery or Vehicles Counsel patients that AXERT ® may cause dizziness , somnolence , visual disturbances , and other CNS symptoms that can interfere with driving or operating machinery .
Accordingly , advise the patient not to drive , operate complex machinery , or engage in other hazardous activities until they have gained sufficient experience with AXERT ® to gauge whether it affects their mental or visual performance adversely .
17 . 8 Hypersensitivity Inform patients to tell their physician if they develop a rash , itching , or breathing difficulties after taking AXERT ® [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 9 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling See attached .
AXERT ® Tablets are manufactured by : Janssen - Ortho , LLC Gurabo , Puerto Rico 00778 ( Ortho - McNeil Neurologics logo ) AXERT ® Tablets are manufactured for : Ortho - McNeil Neurologics , Division of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , NJ 08560 Licensed from : Almirall , S . A . U . S . Patent No . 5 , 565 , 447 Revised April 2011 Insert new code Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PATIENT LABELING AXERT ® ( AX - ert ) ( almotriptan malate ) TABLETS Please read this information before you start taking AXERT ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets .
Also , read this leaflet each time you renew your prescription just in case anything has changed .
Remember , this leaflet does not take the place of careful discussions with your doctor .
You and your doctor should discuss AXERT ® when you start taking your medication and at regular checkups .
What is AXERT ® and what is it used for ?
AXERT ® is a medication used to treat migraine attacks in adults and adolescents age 12 to 17 years .
AXERT ® is a member of a class of drugs called selective serotonin receptor agonists .
Use AXERT ® only for a migraine attack .
Do not use AXERT ® to treat headaches that might be caused by other conditions .
Tell your doctor about your symptoms .
Your doctor will decide if you have migraine .
There is more information about migraine at the end of this leaflet .
Who should not take AXERT ® ?
[ 1 ] Do not take AXERT ® if you : • have ever had heart disease .
• have uncontrolled high blood pressure .
• have hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
If you are not sure , ask your doctor .
• have taken another serotonin receptor agonist ( e . g . , another triptan ) in the last 24 hours .
These include naratriptan ( AMERGE ® ) , rizatriptan ( MAXALT ® ) , sumatriptan ( IMITREX ® , TREXIMET ® ) , or zolmitriptan ( ZOMIG ® ) .
• have taken ergotamine - type medicines in the last 24 hours .
These include ergotamine ( BELLERGAL - S ® , CAFERGOT ® , ERGOMAR ® , WIGRAINE ® ) , dihydroergotamine ( D . H . E . 45 ® ) , or methysergide ( SANSERT ® ) .
• had an allergic reaction to AXERT ® or any of its ingredients .
The active ingredient is almotriptan malate .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist about inactive ingredients .
Tell your doctor if you take : • monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , such as phenelzine sulfate ( NARDIL ® ) or tranylcypromine sulfate ( PARNATE ® ) for depression or another condition , or if it has been less than two weeks since you stopped taking an MAO inhibitor .
• ketoconazole ( NIZORAL ® ) , itraconazole ( SPORANOX ® ) , ritonavir ( NORVIR ® ) , or erythromycin ( EMYCIN ® ) , or if it has been less than one week since you stopped taking one of these drugs .
• selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , two types of drugs for depression or other disorders .
Common SSRIs are CELEXA ® ( citalopram HBr ) , LEXAPRO ® ( escitalopram oxalate ) , PAXIL ® ( paroxetine ) , PROZAC ® / SARAFEM ® ( fluoxetine ) , SYMBYAX ® ( olanzapine / fluoxetine ) , ZOLOFT ® ( sertraline ) , and fluvoxamine .
Common SNRIs are CYMBALTA ® ( duloxetine ) and EFFEXOR ® ( venlafaxine ) .
These medicines may affect how AXERT ® works , or AXERT ® may affect how these medicines work .
To help your doctor decide if AXERT ® is right for you or if you need to be checked while taking AXERT ® , tell your doctor about any : • past or present medical problems .
• past or present high blood pressure , chest pain , shortness of breath , or heart disease .
• liver or kidney problems .
• risk factors for heart disease , such as : • – high blood pressure • – diabetes • – high cholesterol • – overweight • – smoking • – family members with heart disease • – you are past menopause • – you are a male over 40 years old .
• allergic reactions to sulfonamides , also known as sulfa drugs ( ask your doctor if you are not sure what sulfonamide drugs are ) .
• medicines you take or plan to take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines and herbal supplements .
Be sure to include medicines you normally take for a migraine .
Talk to your doctor about using AXERT ® if you are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding .
How should I take AXERT ® ?
• When you have a migraine headache , take your medicine as directed by your doctor .
• If your headache comes back after your first dose , you may take a second dose 2 hours or more after the first dose .
If your pain continues after the first dose , do not take a second dose without first checking with your doctor .
• Do not take more than two AXERT ® Tablets in a 24 - hour period .
• If you take too much medicine , contact your doctor , hospital emergency department , or poison control center right away .
What should I avoid while taking AXERT ® ?
Check with your doctor before you take any new medicines , including prescription and non - prescription medicines and supplements .
There are some medicines that you should not take during the period 24 hours before and 24 hours after taking AXERT ® .
Some of them are listed in the section " Who should not take AXERT ? "
What are the possible side effects of AXERT ® ?
The side effects are usually mild and do not last long .
The following is not a complete list of side effects .
Ask your doctor to tell you about the other side effects .
The most common side effects in adults are : • Nausea • Sleepiness • Tingling or burning feeling ( paresthesia ) • Headache • Dry mouth The most common side effects in adolescents are : • Dizziness • Sleepiness • Nausea • Headache • Tingling or burning feeling ( paresthesia ) • Vomiting If you experience sleepiness , you should evaluate your ability to perform complex tasks , such as driving or operating heavy machinery .
Tell your doctor about any other symptoms that you develop while taking AXERT ® .
If the symptoms continue or worsen , get medical help right away .
Also , tell your doctor if you develop a rash or itching after taking AXERT ® .
You may be allergic to the medicine .
In very rare cases , patients taking this class of medicines experience serious heart problems , stroke , or increased blood pressure .
Extremely rarely , patients have died .
Therefore , tell your doctor right away if you feel tightness , pain , pressure , or heaviness in your chest , throat , neck , or jaw after taking AXERT ® .
Do not take AXERT ® again until your doctor has checked you .
Some people may have a reaction called serotonin syndrome , which can be life - threatening , when they use AXERT ® .
In particular , this reaction may occur when they use AXERT ® together with certain types of antidepressants known as SSRIs or SNRIs .
Symptoms may include mental changes ( hallucinations , agitation , or coma ) , fast heartbeat , changes in blood pressure , high body temperature or sweating , tight muscles , trouble walking , nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Call your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms after taking AXERT ® .
This is not a complete list of side effects .
Talk to your doctor if you develop any symptoms that concern you .
What to do in case of an overdose ?
Call your doctor or poison control center or go to the ER .
What is a migraine and how does it differ from other headaches ?
A migraine is an intense , throbbing , typically one - sided headache .
It often includes nausea , vomiting , sensitivity to light , and sensitivity to sound .
The pain and symptoms from a migraine headache may be worse than the pain and symptoms of a common headache .
Some people have visual symptoms before the headache , such as flashing lights or wavy lines , called an aura .
Migraine attacks typically last for hours or , rarely , for more than a day .
They can return often .
The strength and frequency of migraine attacks may vary .
Based on your symptoms , your doctor will decide whether you have a migraine .
Migraine headaches tend to occur in members of the same family .
Both men and women get migraines , but it is more common in women .
What may trigger a migraine attack ?
Certain things may trigger migraine attacks in some people .
Some of these triggers are : • certain foods or drinks , such as cheese , chocolate , citrus fruit ( oranges , grapefruit , lemons , limes , and others ) , caffeine , and alcohol .
• stress .
• a change in behavior , such as too much or too little sleep , missing a meal , or a change in diet .
• hormone changes in women , such as during monthly menstrual periods .
You may be able to prevent migraine attacks or make them come less often if you understand what triggers your attacks .
Keeping a headache diary may help you identify and monitor the possible triggers that cause your migraine .
Once you identify the triggers , you and your doctor can change your lifestyle to avoid those triggers .
How does AXERT ® work during a migraine attack ?
Treatment with AXERT ® : • reduces swelling of blood vessels surrounding the brain .
This swelling is associated with the headache pain of a migraine attack .
• blocks the release of substances from nerve endings that cause more pain and other symptoms of migraine .
• interrupts the sending of specific pain signals to your brain .
It is thought that each of these actions contributes to relief of your symptoms by AXERT ® .
How should I store AXERT ® ?
Keep your medicine in a safe place where children cannot reach it .
It may be harmful to children .
Store your medicine away from heat , light , or moisture at a controlled room temperature .
If your medicine has expired , throw it away as instructed .
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment , do not keep any leftover medicine unless your doctor tells you to do so .
Throw away your medicine as instructed .
Be sure that discarded tablets are out of the reach of children .
General advice about prescription medicines Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use AXERT ® for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AXERT ® to other people even if they have the same symptoms you have .
People may be harmed if they take medicines that have not been prescribed for them .
This leaflet provides a summary of information about AXERT ® .
If you have any questions or concerns about either AXERT ® or migraines , talk to your doctor .
In addition , talk to your pharmacist or other healthcare provider .
AXERT ® Tablets are manufactured by : Janssen - Ortho , LLC Gurabo , Puerto Rico 00778 AXERT ® Tablets are manufactured for : Ortho - McNeil Neurologics , Division of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Titusville , NJ 08560 Licensed from : Almirall , S . A . U . S . Patent No . 5 , 565 , 447 Revised April 2011 [ 1 ] The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not the trademarks of Ortho - McNeil - Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 . 5 mg Tablet Carton NDC 54868 - 5527 - 1 Axert ® ( almotriptan malate ) Tablets equivalent to 12 . 5 mg almotriptan 12 tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
