1 % / 0 . 25 % Sterile Rx only DESCRIPTION PAREMYD ® sterile ophthalmic solution is a topical mydriatic combination product for ophthalmic use .
STRUCTURAL FORMULAE [ MULTIMEDIA ] CHEMICAL NAME Hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide : Phenol , 4 - ( 2 - aminopropyl ) - , hydrobromide Tropicamide : Benzeneacetamide , N - ethyl - α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - N - ( 4 - pyridinylmethyl ) - CONTAINS Actives : Hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide , USP ....................... 1 . 0 % Tropicamide , USP ................................................................. 0 . 25 % Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 005 % Inactives : Edetate Disodium 0 . 015 % , Sodium Chloride ; Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 2 to 5 . 8 during its shelf life ) , and Water for Injecton .
The osmolality of PAREMYD ® is approximately 307 mOsm / l .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PAREMYD ® Solution combines the effects of the adrenergic agent , hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide , and the anticholinergic agent , tropicamide .
Hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide is an indirectly - acting sympathomimetic agent which , when applied topically to the eye , causes the release of endogenous norepinephrine from intact adrenergic nerve terminals resulting in mydriasis .
Since hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide has little or no direct activity on the receptor site , dilation does not usually occur if there is damage to the presynaptic nerve terminal , e . g . , Horner ' s Syndrome .
However , it is not known whether damage to the presynaptic nerve terminal will influence the extent of mydriasis produced by PAREMYD ® .
Hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide has minimal cycloplegic action .
Tropicamide is a parasympatholytic agent which , when applied topically to the eye , blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle to cholinergic stimulation , producing dilation of the pupil and paralysis of the ciliary muscle .
Tropicamide produces short - duration mydriasis .
Although cycloplegia occurs with higher doses of tropicamide , there is evidence with 0 . 25 % tropicamide that full cycloplegia does not occur .
Since both these agents act on different effector sites , their simultaneous use produces an additive mydriatic effect .
PAREMYD ® provides diminished pupil responsiveness to light , facilitating ophthalmoscopy .
The onset of action with PAREMYD ® occurs within 15 minutes , followed by maximum effect within 60 minutes after instillation of one drop .
Clinically significant dilation , inhibition of pupillary light response , and partial cycloplegia last 3 hours , with recovery beginning at approximately 90 minutes and with complete recovery occurring in most patients in 6 to 8 hours .
However , in some cases complete recovery may take up to 24 hours .
Effectiveness may differ slightly in patients with light and dark irides , with those patients with light irides experiencing a slightly greater mydriasis .
INDICATIONS PAREMYD ® Solution is indicated for mydriasis in routine diagnostic procedures and in conditions where short - term pupil dilation is desired .
PAREMYD ® provides clinically significant mydriasis with partial cycloplegia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PAREMYD ® Solution should not be used in patients with angle - closure glaucoma or in those with narrow angles in whom dilation of the pupil may precipitate an attack of angle - closure glaucoma .
This product is also contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any of its components .
WARNINGS For topical ophthalmic use only ; not for injection .
There is evidence that mydriatics may produce a transient elevation of intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma .
This preparation rarely may cause CNS disturbances which may be particularly dangerous in infants , children or the aged .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances and vasomotor or cardio - respiratory collapse have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with hypertension , hyperthyroidism , diabetes or cardiac disease ( i . e . , arrhythmias or chronic ischemic heart disease ) should be monitored after instillation .
The elderly and others in whom glaucoma or increased intraocular pressure may be encountered following administration of PAREMYD ® Solution should also be monitored closely .
To avoid inducing angle - closure glaucoma , an estimation of the depth of the angle of the anterior chamber should be made .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised not to touch the dropper tip to any surface since this may contaminate the solution .
Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or engaging in other hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patients may experience photophobia and / or blurred vision and should protect their eyes in bright illumination when pupils are dilated .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ' s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ' s hands following administration .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential of PAREMYD ® .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PAREMYD ® .
It is also not known whether PAREMYD ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capability .
PAREMYD ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when PAREMYD ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
PAREMYD ® may rarely cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in infants and children .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances and vasomotor or cardio - respiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
( See WARNINGS ) .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Increased intraocular pressure has been reported following use of mydriatics .
Transient stinging , dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , photophobia with or without corneal staining , tachycardia , headache , allergic reactions , nausea , vomiting , pallor and muscle rigidity have been reported with the use of tropicamide and / or hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide , and thus may occur with PAREMYD ® Solution .
Central nervous system disturbances have also been reported .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
Rare but serious cardiovascular events , including death due to myocardial infarction , ventricular fibrillation and significant hypotensive episodes have occurred shortly following PAREMYD ® instillation .
OVERDOSAGE Ocular overdosage will cause dilation of the pupils .
Systemic overdosage or ingestion of large doses may result in hypertension , cardiac arrhythmias , sub - sternal discomfort , headache , sweating , nausea , vomiting and gastrointestinal irritation .
Patients with systemic overdosage should be carefully monitored and treated symptomatically .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One to two drops in the conjunctival sac .
The onset of action with PAREMYD ® Solution occurs within 15 minutes followed by maximum effect within 60 minutes .
Clinically significant dilation , inhibition of pupillary light response , and partial cycloplegia last 3 hours .
Mydriasis will reverse spontaneously with time , typically in 6 to 8 hours .
However , in some cases , complete recovery may take up to 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED PAREMYD ® ( hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide / tropicamide ophthalmic solution ) 1 % / 0 . 25 % as a 15 mL solution in a 15 mL opaque white , low density polyethylene bottle with a natural low density polyethylene dropper tip and a red polypropylene cap .
15 mL - NDC 17478 - 704 - 12 STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Note : Protect from light .
Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 PM00N Rev . 06 / 16 Container Label Principal Display Panel NDC 17478 - 704 - 12 PAREMYD ® ( hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide / tropicamide ophthalmic solution ) 1 % / 0 . 25 % 15 mL Sterile Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Principal Display Panel NDC 17478 - 704 - 12 [ Akorn logo ] PAREMYD ® ( hydroxyamphetamine hydrobromide / tropicamide ophthalmic solution ) 1 % / 0 . 25 % 15 mL Sterile Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
