Indication and Usage , Pediatric Patients with Atopic Dermatitis ( 1 . 2 ) 11 / 2007 Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil , 0 . 01 % ( BODY OIL ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is a corticosteroid indicated for the • topical treatment of atopic dermatitis in adult patients ( 1 . 1 ) • topical treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients 3 months and older for up to 4 weeks ( 1 . 2 ) Limitations of Use : • Apply the least amount to cover affected areas .
Discontinue when disease is controlled .
( 1 . 3 ) • Do not use in the diaper area .
( 1 . 3 ) • Do not use on the face , axillae , or groin .
( 1 . 3 , 6 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 1 . 1 Adult Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is indicated for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis in adult patients .
1 . 2 Pediatric Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is indicated for the topical treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients , 3 months and older for up to 4 weeks .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 3 months of age have not been established .
1 . 3 Limitations of Use Apply the least amount of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil needed to cover the affected areas .
As with other corticosteroids , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued when control of disease is achieved .
Contact the physician if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied to the diaper area ; diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive use .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be used on the face , axillae , or groin unless directed by the physician .
Application to intertriginous areas should be avoided due to the increased risk of local adverse reactions .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
The dosing of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is different for adult and pediatric patients .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Adult patients : Apply to affected areas 3 times daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients : Moisten skin and apply to affected areas twice daily for up to 4 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adult Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Apply fluocinolone acetonide topical oil as a thin film to the affected areas three times daily .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Moisten skin and apply fluocinolone acetonide topical oil as a thin film to the affected areas twice daily for up to four weeks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % ( Body Oil ) is supplied in bottles containing 4 fluid ounces .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % ( Body Oil ) is supplied in bottles containing 4 fluid ounces .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
( 5 . 1 ) • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 ) • Potent corticosteroids , use on large areas , prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption .
( 5 . 1 ) • Local adverse reactions may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal Axis Suppression Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
The ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Conditions which increase systemic absorption include the use of more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , and use of occlusive dressings .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] 5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur with use of topical corticosteroids and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] 5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists unchanged , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 5 Use in Peanut - Sensitive Individuals Physicians should use caution in prescribing fluocinolone acetonide topical oil for peanut - sensitive individuals .
[ See Description ( 11 ) ] Should signs of hypersensitivity present ( wheal and flare reactions , pruritus , or other manifestations ) , or should disease exacerbations occur , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) were cough ( 20 % ) , rhinorrhea ( 13 % ) , pyrexia ( 10 % ) , telangiectasia ( 7 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 7 % ) , and hypopigmentation ( 7 % ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience : Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An open - label study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ( 2 to 12 years old ) to evaluate the safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks .
The following adverse reactions were reported : Incidence of Adverse Reactions ( % ) , N = 58 Adverse Reaction ( AR ) [ 1 ] # of subjects ( % ) Day 14 Day 28 [ 2 ] Day 56 [ 3 ] Any AE 15 ( 26 ) 6 ( 10 ) 7 ( 12 ) 7 ( 12 ) Telangiectasia 5 ( 9 ) 3 ( 5 ) 4 ( 7 ) 2 ( 4 ) Erythema 3 ( 5 ) 3 ( 5 ) Itching 3 ( 5 ) 3 ( 5 ) Irritation 3 ( 5 ) 3 ( 5 ) Burning 3 ( 5 ) 3 ( 5 ) Hypopigmentation 2 ( 4 ) 2 ( 4 ) Shiny Skin 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Papules and pustules 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Keratosis pilaris 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Folliculitis 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Facial herpes simplex 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Acneiform eruption 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) Ear infection 1 ( 2 ) 1 ( 2 ) [ 1 ] The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects , since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction .
[ 2 ] End of Treatment [ 3 ] Four Weeks Post Treatment 6 . 2 Clinical Studies Experience : Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open - label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks .
The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] : Adverse Reactions ( % ) , N = 30 [ 1 ] Adverse Reaction # of subjects ( % ) Diarrhea 1 ( 3 ) Vomiting 1 ( 3 ) Pyrexia 3 ( 10 ) Abscess 1 ( 3 ) Molluscum 1 ( 3 ) Nasopharyngitis 2 ( 7 ) URI 1 ( 3 ) Otitis media 1 ( 3 ) Cough 6 ( 20 ) Rhinorrhea 4 ( 13 ) Atopic dermatitis 1 ( 3 ) Eczema 1 ( 3 ) Hyperpigmentation 1 ( 3 ) Hypopigmentation 2 ( 7 ) Rash 1 ( 3 ) [ 1 ] Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Therefore , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 4 . 1 Systemic Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and subnormal response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children are at a greater risk for systemic adverse reactions than are adults when treated with topical corticosteroids .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] 8 . 4 . 2 Evaluation in Peanut - Sensitive Pediatric Subjects A clinical study was conducted to assess the safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , which contains refined peanut oil , on subjects with known peanut allergies .
The study enrolled 13 subjects with atopic dermatitis , 6 to 17 years of age .
Of the 13 subjects , 9 were Radioallergosorbent Test ( RAST ) positive to peanuts and 4 had no peanut sensitivity ( controls ) .
The study evaluated the subjects ' responses to both prick test and patch test utilizing peanut oil NF , fluocinolone acetonide topical oil and histamine / saline controls .
Subjects were also treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 7 days .
Prick test and patch test results for all 13 patients were negative to fluocinolone acetonide topical oil and the refined peanut oil .
One of the 9 peanut - sensitive patients experienced an exacerbation of atopic dermatitis after 5 days of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
The bulk peanut oil NF , used in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is heated at 475 ° F for at least 15 minutes , which should provide for adequate decomposition of allergenic proteins .
[ See Description ( 11 ) ] 8 . 4 . 3 Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 2 to 6 years old Open - label safety studies were conducted on 33 children ( 20 subjects ages 2 to 6 years , 13 subjects ages 7 to 12 years ) with moderate to severe stable atopic dermatitis .
Subjects were treated with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks .
Baseline body surface area involvement was 50 % to 75 % in 15 subjects and greater than 75 % in 18 subjects .
Morning pre - stimulation cortisol and post - ACTH stimulation cortisol levels were obtained in each subject at the beginning of the trial and at the end of 4 weeks of treatment .
At the end of treatment , 4 out of 18 subjects aged 2 to 5 years showed low pre - stimulation cortisol levels ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 6 µg / dL ; normal : cortisol > 7µg / dL ) but all had normal responses to 0 . 25 mg of ACTH stimulation ( cortisol > 18 µg / dL ) .
8 . 4 . 4 Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open - label safety study was conducted in 29 children ( 7 subjects ages 3 to 6 months , 7 subjects ages > 6 to 12 months and 15 subjects ages > 12 months to 2 years of age ) to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks .
All subjects had moderate to severe atopic dermatitis with disease involvement on at least 20 % body surface area .
Baseline body surface area involvement was 50 % to 75 % in 11 subjects and greater than 75 % in 7 subjects .
Morning pre - stimulation and post - ACTH stimulation cortisol levels were obtained in each subject at the beginning of the trial and at the end of 4 weeks of treatment .
All subjects had normal responses to 0 . 125 mg of ACTH stimulation ( cortisol > 18 µg / dL ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects , including under conditions of normal use .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % ( Body Oil ) contains fluocinolone acetonide [ ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - pregna - 1 , 4 diene - 3 , 20 - dione , cyclic 16 , 17 acetal with acetone ] , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
This formulation is also marketed as Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil , 0 . 01 % ( Scalp Oil ) for use with shower caps for treatment of scalp psoriasis in adults .
Chemically , fluocinolone acetonide is C24 H30 F2 O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinolone acetonide in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil has a molecular weight of 452 . 50 .
It is a white crystalline powder that is odorless , stable in light , and melts at 270 ° C with decomposition ; soluble in alcohol , acetone and methanol ; slightly soluble in chloroform ; insoluble in water .
Each gram of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil contains approximately 0 . 11 mg of fluocinolone acetonide in a blend of oils , which contains isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , light mineral oil , oleth - 2 , and refined peanut oil .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is formulated with 48 % refined peanut oil NF .
Physicians should use caution in prescribing Fluocinolone Acetonide 0 . 01 % Topical Oil for peanut - sensitive individuals .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Like other topical corticosteroids , fluocinolone acetonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the product formulation and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
The use of pharmacodynamic endpoints for assessing the systemic exposure of topical corticosteroids may be necessary due to the fact that circulating levels are often below the level of detection .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids in vasoconstrictor studies .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Studies have not been performed to evaluate the mutagenic potential of fluocinolone acetonide , the active ingredient in fluocinolone acetonide topical oil .
Some corticosteroids have been found to be genotoxic in various genotoxicity tests ( i . e . the in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay with metabolic activation , the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay , the Chinese hamster micronucleus test , and the in vitro mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is supplied in bottles containing 4 fluid ounces .
It is labeled as Body Oil ( NDC 51672 - 1356 - 8 ) .
Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Instructions • Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of contact , wash eyes liberally with water .
• Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should report any worsening of their skin condition to their physician promptly .
• Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied under occlusion unless directed by the physician .
Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied to the diaper area as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive use .
• Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be used on the face , axillae , or groin unless directed by the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control of disease is achieved .
Contact the physician if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
• Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using fluocinolone acetonide topical oil without first consulting your physician .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : June 2020 PK - 6468 - 1 50 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 . 28 mL Bottle Carton 4 fl .
oz .
Net Contents 118 . 28 mL NDC 51672 - 1356 - 8 Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Oil 0 . 01 % ( BODY OIL ) For Topical Use Only Not for Oral , Ophthalmic , or Intravaginal Use SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
