[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Meprobamate is awhite powder with a characteristic odor and a bittertaste .
It is slightly soluble in water , freely soluble in acetone andalcohol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
The structural formula of meprobamate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H18N2O4 M . W . 218 . 25 Meprobamate Tablets USP 200 mg and 400 mg for oral administrationcontain the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , pre - gelatinized starch , colloidal silicondioxide , stearic acid and magnesium stearate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meprobamate is a carbamate derivative which has been shown inanimal studies to have effects at multiple sites in the central nervoussystem including the thalamus and limbic system .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meprobamate tablets are indicated for the management of anxietydisorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety . Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usuallydo not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of meprobamate tablets in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinicalstudies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness ofthe drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute intermittent porphyria as well as allergic or idiosyncraticreactions to meprobamate or related compounds such ascarisoprodol , mebutamate , tybamate , or carbromal .
WARNINGS Drug Dependence Physical dependence , psychological dependence , and abuse haveoccurred .
When chronic intoxication from prolonged use occurs , itusually involves ingestion of greater than recommended doses and ismanifested by ataxia , slurred speech , and vertigo .
Therefore , carefulsupervision of dose and amounts prescribed is advised , as well asavoidance of prolonged administration , especially for alcoholics andother patients with a known propensity for taking excessive quantitiesof drugs .
Sudden withdrawal of the drug after prolonged and excessive use mayprecipitate recurrence of pre - existing symptoms such as anxiety , anorexia , insomnia , or withdrawal reactions such as vomiting , ataxia , tremors , muscle twitching , confusional states , hallucinosis , andrarely , convulsive seizures .
Such seizures are more likely to occur inpersons with central nervous system damage or pre - existent or latentconvulsive disorders .
Onset of withdrawal symptoms occurs usuallywithin 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of meprobamate ; symptoms usually cease within the next 12 to 48 hours .
When excessive dosage has continued for weeks or months , dosageshould be reduced gradually over a period of one or two weeks ratherthan abruptly stopped .
Alternatively , a long - acting barbiturate may besubstituted , then gradually withdrawn .
Potentially Hazardous Tasks Patients should be warned that meprobamate may impair the mentaland / or physical abilities required for performance of potentiallyhazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery .
Additive Effects Since the effects of meprobamate and alcohol or meprobamate andother CNS depressants or psychotropic drugs may be additive , appropriate caution should be exercised with patients who take morethan one of these agents simultaneously .
Usage in Pregnancy and Lactation An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with theuse of minor tranquilizers ( meprobamate , chlordiazepoxide anddiazepam ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has beensuggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarelya matter of urgency , their use during this period should almostalways be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearingpotential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapyshould be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant theyshould communicate with their physician about the desirability ofdiscontinuing the drug .
Meprobamate passes the placental barrier .
It is present both inumbilical cord blood at or near maternal plasma levels and inbreast milk of lactating mothers at concentrations two to four timesthat of maternal plasma .
When use of meprobamate iscontemplated in breastfeeding patients , the drug ' s higherconcentration in breast milk as compared to maternal plasmashould be considered .
Usage in Children Meprobamate tablets should not be administered to children underage six , since there is a lack of documented evidence for safety andeffectiveness in this age group .
PRECAUTIONS The lowest effective dose should be administered , particularly toelderly and / or debilitated patients , in order to preclude oversedation .
The possibility of suicide attempts should be considered and the leastamount of drug feasible should be dispensed at anyone time .
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidney ; toavoid its excess accumulation , caution should be exercised inadministration to patients with compromised liver or kidney function .
Meprobamate occasionally may precipitate seizures in epilepticpatients .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of meprobamate tablets did not include sufficientnumbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether theyrespond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinicalexperience has not identified differences in responses between theelderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderlypatient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of thedosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System Drowsiness , ataxia , dizziness , slurred speech , headache , vertigo , weakness , paresthesias , impairment of visual accommodation , euphoria , overstimulation , paradoxical excitement , fast EEG activity .
Gastrointestinal Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
Cardiovascular Palpitation , tachycardia , various forms of arrhythmia , transient ECGchanges , syncope ; also hypotensive crisis ( including one fatal case ) .
Allergic or Idiosyncratic Allergic or idiosyncratic reactions are usually seen within the period ofthe first to fourth dose in patients having had no previous contact withthe drug .
Milder reactions are characterized by an itchy , urticarial , orerythematous maculopapular rash which may be generalized orconfined to the groin .
Other reactions have included leukopenia , acutenonthrombocytopenic purpura , petechiae , ecchymoses , eosinophilia , peripheral edema , adenopathy , fever , fixed drug eruption with crossreaction to carisoprodol , and cross sensitivity betweenmeprobamate / mebutamate and meprobamate / carbromal .
More severe hypersensitivity reactions , rarely reported , includehyperpyrexia , chills , angioneurotic edema , bronchospasm , oliguriaand anuria .
Also , anaphylaxis , erythema multiforme , exfoliativedermatitis , stomatitis , proctitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome andbullous dermatitis , including one fatal case of the latter followingadministration of meprobamate in combination with prednisolone .
In case of allergic or idiosyncratic reactions to meprobamate , discontinue the drug and initiate appropriate symptomatic therapy , which may include epinephrine , antihistamines , and in severe cases , corticosteroids .
In evaluating possible allergic reactions , also considerallergy to excipients .
Hematologic ( See also Allergic or Idiosyncratic ) .
Agranulocytosis and aplasticanemia have been reported .
These cases rarely were fatal .
Rare casesof thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported .
Other Exacerbation of porphyric symptoms .
OVERDOSAGE Suicidal attempts with meprobamate have resulted in drowsiness , lethargy , stupor , ataxia , coma , shock , vasomotor , and respiratorycollapse .
Some suicidal attempts have been fatal .
The following data on meprobamate tablets have been reported in theliterature and from other sources .
These data are not expected tocorrelate with each case ( considering factors such as individual susceptibility and length of time from ingestion to treatment ) , butrepresent the usual ranges reported .
Acute simple overdose ( meprobamate alone ) : Death has beenreported with ingestion of as little as 12 g meprobamate and survivalwith as much as 40 g . Blood levels 0 . 5 - 2 mg % represents the usual blood level range of meprobamateafter therapeutic doses .
The level may occasionally be as high as 3 mg % .
3 - 10 mg % usually corresponds to findings of mild to moderatesymptoms of overdosage , such as stupor or light coma .
10 - 20 mg % usually corresponds to deeper coma , requiring moreintensive treatment .
Some fatalities occur .
At levels greater than 20 mg % , more fatalities than survivals can beexpected .
Acute combined overdose ( meprobamate with alcohol or other CNSdepressants or psychotropic drugs ) : Since effects can be additive , ahistory of ingestion of a low dose of meprobamate plus any of thesecompounds ( or of a relative low blood or tissue level ) cannot be usedas a prognostic indicator .
In cases where excessive doses have been taken , sleep ensues rapidlyand blood pressure , pulse , and respiratory rates are reduced to basallevels .
Any drug remaining in the stomach should be removed andsymptomatic therapy given .
Should respiration or blood pressurebecome compromised , respiratory assistance , central nervous systemstimulants , and pressor agents should be administered cautiously asindicated .
Meprobamate is metabolized in the liver and excreted by thekidney .
Diuresis , osmotic ( mannitol ) diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , andhemodialysis have been used successfully .
Careful monitoring ofurinary output is necessary and caution should be taken to avoidoverhydration .
Relapse and death , after initial recovery , have beenattributed to incomplete gastric emptying and delayed absorption . Meprobamate can be measured in biological fluids by two methods : colorimetric ( Hoffman , A . J . and Ludwig , B . J . : J Amer Pharm Assn 48 : 740 , 1959 ) and gas chromatographic ( Douglas , J . F . et al : Anal Chern39 : 956 , 1967 ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Meprobamate Tablets USP : The usual adult daily dosage is 1200 mgto 1600 mg , in three or four divided doses ; adaily dosage above 2400 mg is not recommended .
The usual daily dosage for children ages sixto twelve years is 200 mg to 600 mg , in two or three divided doses .
Not recommended for children under age 6 ( see Usage in Children ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Meprobamate Tablets USP 200 mg are white , round , biconvex tabletsdebossed with I and 7 on one side and bisect on the other .
Supplied in bottles of 100 and 1000 .
Bottles of 100 : NDC 55111 - 640 - 01 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 55111 - 640 - 10 Meprobamate Tablets USP 400 mg are white , round , biconvex tabletsdebossed with I and 4 on one side and bisect on the other .
Supplied in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Bottles of 100 : NDC 55111 - 641 - 01 Bottles of 500 : NDC 55111 - 641 - 05 Dispense in well - closed container with child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled RoomTemperature ] .
Manufactu red by : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc Hauppauge , NY 11788 Manufactured for : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Rev : 05 / 09 200 mg - CONTAINER LABELS 100 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 400 mg - CONTAINER LABELS 100 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 ' s count [ MULTIMEDIA ]
