WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs , including LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
DESCRIPTION LEVORA ® 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is a combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) consisting of 21 white active tablets , each containing 0 . 15 mg of levonorgestrel , a synthetic progestin and 0 . 03 mg of ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , and 7 peach inert tablets ( without hormones ) .
The structural formulas for the active components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel C21H28O2 MW : 312 . 4 Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol C20H24O2 MW : 296 . 4 Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol .
Each white active tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
Each peach inert tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake , Lactose Anhydrous , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate and Microcrystalline Cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Combination oral contraceptives prevent pregnancy primarily by suppressing ovulation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females who are known to have the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • – Smoke , if over age 35 [ see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have cerebrovascular disease [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have coronary artery disease [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
• – Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see WARNINGS ( 4 ) ] .
• – Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35 , diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end - organ damage , or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [ see WARNINGS ( 8 ) ] .
• – Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms , migraine headaches with aura , or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see WARNINGS ( 9 ) ] .
• Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive .
• Liver tumors , acute viral hepatitis , or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis [ see WARNINGS ( 2 ) ] .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see WARNINGS ( 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see WARNINGS ( 10 ) ] .
WARNINGS 1 .
Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions • Stop LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if an arterial or venous thrombotic / thromboembolic event occurs .
• Stop LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• Discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 during prolonged immobilization .
If feasible , stop LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 at least four weeks before and through two weeks after major surgery , or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
• Start LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 no earlier than four weeks after delivery in females who are not breast - feeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the likelihood of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• Before starting LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic / thromboembolic diseases ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Arterial Events COCs increase the risk of cardiovascular events and cerebrovascular events , such as myocardial infarction and stroke .
The risk is greater among older women ( > 35 years of age ) , smokers , and females with hypertension , dyslipidemia , diabetes , or obesity .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
Venous Events Use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolic events ( VTEs ) , such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism .
Risk factors for VTEs include smoking , obesity , and family history of VTE , in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of COCs ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of COCs is well - established , the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy , and especially during the postpartum period ( see Figure 1 ) .
The rate of VTE in females using COCs has been estimated to be 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of four weeks or longer .
Based on results from a few studies , there is some evidence that this is true for non - oral products as well .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives , for females who use oral contraceptives , for pregnant females , and for females in the postpartum period .
To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective : If 10 , 000 females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives are followed for one year , between 1 and 5 of these females will develop a VTE .
Figure 1 : Likelihood of Developing a VTE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females with acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if jaundice develops .
Acute liver test abnormalities may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until the liver tests return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Liver Tumors LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
COCs increase the risk of hepatic adenomas .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death from abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
The attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
3 .
Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ] .
Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
There is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
4 .
Hypertension LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For all females , including those with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in females using COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The effect of COCs on blood pressure may vary according to the progestin in the COC .
5 .
Age - related Considerations The risk for cardiovascular disease and prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease increase with age .
Certain conditions , such as smoking and migraine headache without aura , that do not contraindicate COC use in younger females , are contraindications to use in women over 35 years of age [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] .
Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE , particularly before initiating a COC for women over 35 years , such as : • Hypertension • Diabetes • Dyslipidemia • Obesity 6 .
Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications such as COCs .
Discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen .
7 .
Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest an increased risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Females with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC - related cholestasis .
8 .
Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35 , or females who have diabetes with hypertension , nephropathy , retinopathy , neuropathy , other vascular disease , or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may decrease glucose tolerance .
Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic females who are using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Dyslipidemia Consider alternative contraception for females with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may cause adverse lipid changes .
Females with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , which may increase the risk of pancreatitis .
9 .
Headache LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura , and in women over age 35 years who have migraine headaches with or without aura ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
If a woman using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if there is an increased frequency or severity of migraines during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
10 .
Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Females using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may experience unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting , especially during the first three months of use .
Bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or by changing to a different contraceptive product .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , evaluate for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
In two clinical trials of LEVORA ( 1084 subjects reporting for a total of 8186 treatment cycles and 238 subjects reporting for a total of 1102 treatment cycles ) , breakthrough bleeding occurred in 6 . 9 % and 8 . 1 % of reported cycles , and spotting occurred in 8 . 6 % and 7 . 9 % of reported cycles over the total study duration , respectively .
In the two trials , intermenstrual bleeding ( i . e . , breakthrough bleeding and / or spotting ) occurred in 13 . 1 % and 12 . 9 % of reported cycles over the total study duration , respectively .
In one trial , 33 subjects out of 1084 ( 3 . 0 % ) discontinued due to bleeding irregularities ( i . e . , breakthrough bleeding and spotting ) ; in the other trial , 6 subjects out of 238 ( 2 . 5 % ) discontinued due to bleeding irregularities .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Females who use LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may experience absence of scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding , even if they are not pregnant .
In two clinical trials of LEVORA , one including 8186 reported treatment cycles , and the other including 1102 reported treatment cycles , amenorrhea occurred in 1 . 5 % of treatment cycles in each trial .
If scheduled bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or two active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and perform appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
After discontinuation of a COC , amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea may occur , especially if these conditions were pre - existent .
11 .
Depression Carefully observe females with a history of depression and discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if depression recurs to a serious degree .
Data on the association of COCs with onset of depression or exacerbation of existing depression are limited .
12 .
Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
13 .
Hereditary Angioedema In females with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
14 .
Chloasma Chloasma may occur with LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 use , especially in females with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Advise females with a history of chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
PRECAUTIONS 1 .
Lipid Disorders Women who are being treated for hyperlipidemias should be followed closely if they elect to use oral contraceptives .
Some progestogens may elevate LDL levels and may render the control of hyperlipidemias more difficult [ see WARNINGS ( 8 ) ] .
In patients with familial defects of lipoprotein metabolism receiving estrogen - containing preparations , there have been case reports of significant elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis .
2 .
Fluid Retention Oral contraceptives may cause some degree of fluid retention .
They should be prescribed with caution , and only with careful monitoring , in patients with conditions which might be aggravated by fluid retention .
3 .
Gastrointestinal Motility Diarrhea and / or vomiting may reduce hormone absorption ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
4 .
Drug Interactions The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available .
There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs .
However , based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs , clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested .
Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations .
No drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
4 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs Table 1 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Table 1 : Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCsMetabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding .
Prevention or management • Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability .
Examples Aprepitant , barbiturates , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin , rifampin , rifabutin , rufinamide , topiramate , products containing St . John ' s wort [ 1 ] , and certain protease inhibitors ( see separate section on protease inhibitors below ) .
Colesevelam Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol .
• Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding , depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the COC .
Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction .
[ 1 ] Induction potency of St . John ' s wort may vary widely based on preparation .
Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin component of COCs .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with some HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ) , some HCV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ) , and some non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , nevirapine ) .
In contrast , significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted when COCs are co - administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ) and with other non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( e . g . , etravirine ) .
4 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 2 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co - administered with LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Table 2 : Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co - Administered With COCsLamotrigine Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
• Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control .
Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary .
Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine .
Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid - binding and cortisol - binding globulin ( see Warnings , EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS ) .
Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use ( see Warnings , EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS ) .
Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol - containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) .
Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased .
Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug .
4 . 3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) Combination Therapy - Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , [ see WARNINGS ( 6 ) ] , and glecaprevir / pibrentasvir due to potential for ALT elevations .
4 . 4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
5 .
Carcinogenesis See WARNINGS ( 3 ) .
6 .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Discontinue LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if pregnancy occurs because there is no reason to use COCs in pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to COCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
Animal studies to evaluate embryo / fetal toxicity were not conducted .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
7 .
Lactation Risk Summary Contraceptive hormones and / or metabolites are present in human milk .
COCs can reduce milk production in breast - feeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breast - feeding is well - established .
When possible , advise the nursing female to use other methods of contraception until she discontinues breast - feeding .
( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breast - feeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 have been established in females of reproductive potential .
Use of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 before menarche is not indicated .
9 .
Geriatric Use LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
10 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Counsel patients that cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs ( see BOXED WARNING and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
• Counsel patients that this product does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• Counsel patients to take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs ( see [ PRECAUTIONS ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
• Counsel patients who are breastfeeding or who desire to breastfeed that COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see PRECAUTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
• Counsel any patient who starts LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a white tablet for 7 consecutive days ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• Counsel patients that amenorrhea may occur .
Pregnancy should be considered in the event of amenorrhea , and should be ruled out if amenorrhea is associated with symptoms of pregnancy , such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness [ see WARNINGS ( 10 ) ] • Depression may occur .
Women should contact their healthcare provider if depression occurs , including shortly after initiating the treatment [ see WARNINGS ( 11 ) ] .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Post Marketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 - 1 . 12 ( Figure 2 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 2 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 - 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 - 10 years of COC use .
Figure 2 : Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptive Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular adverse events [ see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see WARNINGS ( 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see WARNINGS ( 2 ) ] • Hypertension [ see WARNINGS ( 4 ) ] • Gallbladder disease [ see WARNINGS ( 7 ) ] • Carbohydrate and lipid effects [ see WARNINGS ( 8 ) ] • Headache [ see WARNINGS ( 9 ) ] • Carcinoma of the cervix [ see WARNINGS ( 3 ) ] Adverse reactions reported by COC users and described elsewhere in the labeling are : • Bleeding irregularities and amenorrhea [ see WARNINGS ( 10 ) ] • Mood changes , including depression [ see WARNINGS ( 11 ) ] • Melasma / chloasma which may persist [ see WARNINGS ( 14 ) ] • Edema / fluid retention [ see PRECAUTIONS ( 2 ) ] • Diminution in lactation when given immediately postpartum [ see PRECAUTIONS ( 7 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving oral contraceptives and are believed to be drug - related : Breast tenderness , pain , enlargement , secretion ; Nausea , vomiting and gastrointestinal symptoms ( such as abdominal pain , cramps and bloating ) ; Change in menstrual flow ; Temporary infertility after discontinuation of treatment ; Change in weight or appetite ( increase or decrease ) ; Change in cervical erosion and secretion ; Cholestatic jaundice ; Rash ( allergic ) ; Vaginitis , including candidiasis ; Change in corneal curvature ( steepening ) ; Intolerance to contact lenses ; Mesenteric thrombosis ; Decrease in serum folate levels ; Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus ; Exacerbation of porphyria ; Exacerbation of chorea ; Aggravation of varicose veins ; Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and severe reactions with respiratory and circulatory symptoms .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in users of oral contraceptives , and the association has been neither confirmed nor refuted : Congenital anomalies ; Premenstrual syndrome ; Cataracts ; Optic neuritis , which may lead to partial or complete loss of vision ; Cystitis - like syndrome ; Nervousness ; Dizziness ; Hirsutism ; Loss of scalp hair ; Erythema multiforme ; Erythema nodosum ; Hemorrhagic eruption ; Impaired renal function ; Hemolytic uremic syndrome ; Budd - Chiari syndrome ; Acne ; Changes in libido ; Colitis ; Sickle - cell disease ; Cerebral - vascular disease with mitral valve prolapse ; Lupus - like syndromes ; Pancreatitis ; Dysmenorrhea .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious adverse outcomes from overdose of COCs , including ingestion by children .
Overdose may cause uterine bleeding in females and nausea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 .
How to Start and Take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is dispensed in a compact dispenser containing 28 tablets ( see HOW SUPPLIED ) .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 3 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
Table 3 : Instructions for Administration of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 Starting LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 in females with no current use of hormonal contraception Day 1 start • Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses • Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last tablet ) Sunday start • Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menstrual period • Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day • Use additional nonhormonal contraception for the first seven days of product use • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last tablet ) Switching from another contraceptive method • A COC Start LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 : • On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • Implant • On the day of removal Starting LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is started immediately .
• If LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first cycle of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Second - trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 following the instructions in Table 3 for Day 1 or Sunday start .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ' s first cycle of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ( 1 ) , PRECAUTIONS ( 10 ) and FDA - APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ) .
Starting LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 following the instructions in Table 3 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is not recommended for use in lactating women ( see PRECAUTIONS ( 7 ) and FDA - APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ) .
• If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ( 10 ) , PRECAUTIONS ( 6 ) and FDA APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ) .
2 .
Dosing LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , patients must take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 as directed , in the order directed on the blister pack .
The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly .
3 .
Missed doses Instruct patients about the handling of missed doses ( e . g . , to take single missed pills as soon as possible ) and to follow the dosing instructions provided in the FDA - approved patient labeling .
Table 4 : Instructions for Missed LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 Tablets • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
• If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional nonhormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
4 .
Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If vomiting occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , the patient should proceed as if she missed a tablet .
In case of prolonged vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LEVORA ® 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 tablets ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg ) are available in packages of 6 compact dispensers , each containing 28 tablets : 21 Active Tablets : White , round , unscored , debossed with 15 / 30 on one side and WATSON on the other side .
7 Inert Tablets : Peach , round , unscored , debossed with WATSON on one side and P1 on the other side .
NDC 51862 - 097 - 01 Store at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77º F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Rev . November 2021 2000014488 Patient Information LEVORA ® 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ( levonorgestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 03 mg tablets ) What is the most important information I should know about LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Do not use LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of clinical studies , about 1 to 5 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Do not take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • have liver problems , including liver tumors • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme " alanine aminotransferase " ( ALT ) in the blood .
If any of these conditions happen while you are taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , stop taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
• Like pregnancy , LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • leg pain that will not go away • sudden sever shortness of breath • sudden change in vision or blindness • chest pain • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • trouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches , including migraine headaches • irregular or unusual vaginal bleeding and spotting between your menstrual periods , especially during the first 3 months of taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
• depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher if you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of oral contraceptives ?
• nausea • vomiting • bleeding between menstrual periods • weight gain • breast tenderness • difficulty wearing contact lenses These are not all the possible side effects of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Certain blood tests may be affected by LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
• LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
• Store LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Protect from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 844 - 825 - 8500 .
Does hormonal birth control cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills causes breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
There may be slight increases in the risk of breast cancer among current users of hormonal birth control pills with longer duration of use of 8 years or more .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
Active ingredients : Each white pill contains levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : White pills : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
Peach pills : FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake , Lactose Anhydrous , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate and Microcrystalline Cellulose .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Rev . February 2022 2000014487 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions For Use LEVORA ® - 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ( levonorgestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0 . 03 mg ) Important Information about taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill pack .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , talk to your healthcare provider .
• When you first start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see What should I do if I miss any LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 pills ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 according to directions , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 - 4 hours of taking a white pill , take another white pill as soon as possible .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next pill pack the day after finishing your current pill pack .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms or spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms or spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 : • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your pill pack .
• Look at your pill pack .
Your pill pack consists of 1 card that holds 28 individually sealed pills .
The 28 pills consist of 21 white pills ( 3 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 peach pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
See Figure A . Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Also find : • Where on the card to start taking pills ( upper left corner ) and • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks ) • Be sure you have ready at all times another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicide ) , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When should I start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ?
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days that you take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and you are switching from another birth control pill : • Start your new LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pill pack .
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and previously used a vaginal ring : • Start using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 on the day you would have started the next ring .
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and previously used a transdermal patch : • Start using LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 on the day you would have started a new cycle ( first patch application ) .
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • Start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 on the day of removal of your implant , or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • Start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days that you take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , " When should I start taking LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 ? "
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Instructions for using your LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 Pill Dispenser : Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
To remove your pill from the dispenser , press the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
• If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill " 1 " that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order on the pill dispenser at the same time each day for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order of the pill dispenser , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
To remove your pill from the dispenser , press the pill through the hole in the bottom of the dispenser .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
What should I do if I miss any LEVORA 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 pills ?
If you miss 1 pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pills in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pills in a row in Week 3 , or you miss 3 or more pills in a row during Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 of the pack , follow these steps : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• You may not have your period this month , but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
• If you are a Sunday Starter : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Revised : May 2021 2000013749 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 51862 - 097 - 06 Levora ® 0 . 15 / 30 - 28 Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP , 0 . 15 mg / 0 . 03 mg 28 - DAY REGIMEN Each white tablet ( 21 ) contains levonorgestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 03 mg ; each peach tablet ( 7 ) contains inert ingredients .
Rx Only 6 Blister Cards , 28 Tablets Each mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
