Active Ingredients Active ingredient Purpose Salicylic acid Acne Treatment Dosage 2 % Uses Uses For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product skin irritation and dryess is more likely to occur if you use anohter topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use on topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions Clean the skin thoroughly before applying the product .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Kaolin , Octyldodecanol , Alcohol denat . , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Polyacrylamide , Steareth - 21 , Polyacrylate crosspolymer - 6 , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Hamamelis virginiana ( Witch hazel ) water , Potassium hydroxide , Steareth - 2 , betaine , Dimethicon , Ammonium glycyrrhizate , Alpha - glucan oligosaccharide , Phenoxyethanol , Laureth - 7 , Caprylyl glycol , Bisabolol , Xanthan gum , Alcohol , Exylhexylglycerin , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Fructose , Glucose , CI 14700 ( Red 4 ) , CI 42090 ( Blue 1 ) .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . no7beauty . com Questions USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 752 - 6687 Description No7 LABORATORIES CLINICALLY PROVEN CLINICALLY PROVEN ACNE TREATMENT 2 % Salicylic Acid Reduce the appearance of acne & blemishes overnight Dermatologist approved 2 % SALICYLIC ACID + PRE - BIOTIC TECHNOLOGY 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
No7 Laboratories Acne Treatment is clinically proven to receal healthier and clearer looking skin .
Dermatologist approved this medicated 2 % Salicylic Acid treatment visibly reduces the appearance of acne overnight .
With pre - biotic technology , feed your skin for a nourished , blanaced and health - looking complexion .
- Reduces the apperance of acne , blemishes & breakouts overnight - Renews skin ' s surface to clear pores , helping to prevent new blemishes forming - Excess oil is reduced for shine - free skin - Restores balance to troubled skin POWERED BY : 2 % SALICYLIC ACID + PRE - BIOTIC TECHNOLOGY In 1 week women agreed their skin ' s appearance had been transformed , and after 4 weeks saw their clearest complexion in years .
Fragrance free and suitable for sensitive skin .
For best results : In the evening after cleansing skin apply a thin layer of the product to troublesome area .
Leav on overnight and rinse away in the morning .
Use 2 - 3 times a week .
Carton carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
