Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 1 . 00 % Purpose Acne Treatment Warnings For external use only When using this product - Apply to affected areas only - Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen - Do not use in or near the eyes - Using other topical acne drugs at the same time or right after use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
Only one drug should be used unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children , if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - 2 x - a - day , massage a small amount onto wet skin .
Rinse well .
- Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other information - Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
- Before use , test a tiny amount on skin ( we omit allergens , but you may be sensitive to an ingredient that is not an allergen .
- Introduce new skin products one at a time , with at least 3 days in between .
- Do not ( re ) introduce removed portions of product or other substances into container .
Inactive ingredients Aqua / Water / Eau , Butylene Glycol , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Laurate , Glyceryl Stearate , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Paraffin , Pumice Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Sodium Phytate , Stearic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol Notes : If contact with eyes occurs , flush out with plenty of water .
This product is meant to be washed off quickly , not left on the skin for longer than a few seconds while cleansing .
Prolonged exposure without rinsing immediately may cause irritation to skin .
Stop use and consult your doctor in the unlikely event of discomfort or sensitivity .
1 ST - TIME USERS : Some first - time users may experience an initial acne break - out due to the deeper exfoliation of the pores ' inner walls .
If your pores have not been regularly cleaned at this level , existing pore cloggers are brought to the surface .
As therapy continues , this deeper - cleaned state is maintained and acne is markedly reduced .
With correct use - following instructions carefully , the slow increase in application frequency , the use of hypoallergenic , non - comedogenic and pH - appropriate support products in the Id system - as well as prevention with non - comedo - genic products such as Essence Skin - Saving Hair , Body + Bath Care , Armada Sun + Light Screens , Skintelligent Beauty Makeup , this initial reaction soon disappears .
If it does occur , stop use for 1 week and restart therapy at the beginning , with 2 x - a - week applications .
CYSTIC ACNE can be internally caused .
If you have cystic acne , consult your dermatologist as you may need additional medication and / or other management .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purpose Acne Treatment Uses - Treats acne - Helps prevent development of new acne blemishes [ MULTIMEDIA ] id SKIN - BUFFING CLEANSING SCRUB cleansing for treated skin mild , pH - adjusted , gently exfoliating cleanser for skin undergoing active treatments clarifying , smoothening + exfoliating system Validated Hypoallergenic : VH - 109 / 109 sans all common allergens , extended allergen series : North American Contact Dermatitis Group + European Surveillance System on Contact Allergies 100 % All - Types - Of - Fragrance - Free .
100 % SLS + Allergen - Surfactant - Free .
100 % Dye , Phthalate , Paraben + Preservative - Free .
Usage + Patch Tested .
Non - Comedogenic .
Non - Drying .
For All Skin Types .
For Men + Women .
120 mL ( 4 Fl .
Oz . )
- 120 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
