DESCRIPTION Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine .
It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol .
The chemical name of orphenadrine citrate is ( ± ) - N , N - Dimethyl - 2 - [ ( o - methyl - 〈 - phenylbenzyl ) oxy ] ethylamine citrate ( 1 : 1 ) having molecular formula C18H23NO • C6H8O7 and molecular weight of 461 . 51 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet for oral administration contains 100 mg orphenadrine citrate .
Each Orphenadrine citrate extended release tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( mega - esophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Orphenadrine citrate tablets are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with orphenadrine .
It is also not known whether orphenadrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Orphenadrine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions of orphenadrine are mainly due to the mild anticholinergic action of orphenadrine , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Orphenadrine has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
OVERDOSAGE Orphenadrine is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anticholinergic effects .
In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
Treatment for orphenadrine overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring , and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anticholinergic effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Two tablets per day ; one in the morning and one in the evening .
HOW SUPPLIED Orphenadrine citrate extended - release tablets 100 mg are round , white to off - white tablets , debossed NL4 on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as : NDC 66336 - 0554 - 14 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Manufactured by Novel Laboratories , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 for GAVIS Pharmaceuticals , LLC 400 Campus Drive Somerset , NJ 08873 GIN - 480 - 01 Rev : 02 / 2011 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 66336 - 0554 - XX NDC 66336 - 0554 - 14 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
