1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZILXI is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , ZILXI should be used only as indicated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
ZILXI is a tetracycline - class drug indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea in adults .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , ZILXI should be used only as indicated ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
After shaking the can well , a small amount of topical foam ( e . g . a cherry - sized amount ) should be expressed from the can onto the fingertips of the hand and then applied as a thin layer over all areas of the face .
Additional ZILXI foam may be used as needed to ensure the entire face is treated .
The topical foam should be applied at approximately the same time each day at least 1 hour before bedtime .
The patient should not bathe , shower or swim for at least 1 hour after application of the product .
Apply ZILXI over all areas of the face once daily .
ZILXI should be gently rubbed into the skin .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical foam , 1 . 5 % .
Each gram of ZILXI contains 15 mg of minocycline equivalent to 16 mg of minocycline hydrochloride and is supplied as a yellow suspension in a pressurized aluminum aerosol container ( can ) .
Foam , 1 . 5 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or any other ingredients in ZILXI .
This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or any of the ingredients in ZILXI .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • The propellant in ZILXI is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 1 ) • • The use of tetracycline - class of drugs orally during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) and reversible inhibition of bone growth .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 8 . 4 ) • • If Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea occurs , discontinue ZILXI .
( 5 . 5 ) • • If liver injury is suspected , discontinue ZILXI .
( 5 . 6 ) • • If renal impairment exists , oral minocycline doses may need to be adjusted to avoid excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
( 5 . 7 ) • • Oral minocycline may cause central nervous system side effects including lightheadedness , dizziness , or vertigo .
( 5 . 8 ) • • Oral minocycline may cause intracranial hypertension in adults and adolescents .
Discontinue ZILXI if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 9 ) • • Oral minocycline has been associated with autoimmune syndromes ; discontinue ZILXI immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) • • Photosensitivity can occur with oral tetracycline .
Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight .
( 5 . 11 ) • • Oral minocycline has been associated with anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions , erythema multiforme , and DRESS syndrome .
Discontinue ZILXI immediately if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 12 ) 5 . 1 Flammability The propellant in ZILXI is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
5 . 2 Teratogenic Effects Minocycline , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may inhibit bone growth when administered orally during pregnancy .
Based on animal data , when administered orally , tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause skeletal malformation and retardation of skeletal development on the developing fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Tooth Discoloration The use of tetracycline class drugs orally during tooth development ( second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term oral use of the tetracycline but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported with oral tetracycline drugs .
Use of tetracycline drugs is not recommended during tooth development .
5 . 4 Inhibition of Bone Growth All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every 6 hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that oral tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause retardation of skeletal development on the developing fetus .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated orally early in pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including oral minocycline , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 6 Hepatotoxicity Post - marketing cases of serious liver injury , including irreversible drug - induced hepatitis and fulminant hepatic failure ( sometimes fatal ) have been reported with oral minocycline use .
5 . 7 Metabolic Effects The anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) .
In patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline - class drugs may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
If renal impairment exists , recommended oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , adjust the dose downward , and if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
5 . 8 Central Nervous System Effects Central nervous system side effects including light - headedness , dizziness or vertigo have been reported with oral minocycline therapy .
Patients who experience these symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy .
These symptoms may disappear during therapy and may disappear when the drug is discontinued .
5 . 9 Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension has been associated with the use of oral tetracycline - class drugs .
Clinical manifestations of intracranial hypertension include headache , blurred vision , diplopia and vision loss ; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy .
Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at a greater risk for developing intracranial hypertension .
Patients should be questioned for visual disturbances prior to initiation of treatment with tetracyclines .
Concomitant use of isotretinoin and tetracycline should be avoided because isotretinoin , a systemic retinoid , is also known to cause intracranial hypertension .
Although intracranial hypertension typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment , the possibility for permanent visual loss exists .
If visual disturbance occurs during treatment , prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted .
Because intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation , patients should be monitored until they stabilize .
5 . 10 Autoimmune Syndromes Tetracyclines have been associated with the development of autoimmune syndromes .
The long - term use of oral minocycline has been associated with drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis and vasculitis .
Sporadic cases of serum sickness have presented shortly after oral minocycline use .
Symptoms may be manifested by fever , rash , arthralgia , and malaise .
In symptomatic patients , immediately discontinue the use of all tetracycline - class drugs , including ZILXI .
5 . 11 Photosensitivity Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking oral tetracyclines ; this reaction has been reported less frequently with minocycline .
Although ZILXI did not induce phototoxicity or photoallergic responses in human dermal safety studies , patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using minocycline .
If patients need to be outdoors while using ZILXI , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
Advise patients to discontinue treatment with ZILXI at the first evidence of sunburn .
5 . 12 Serious Skin / Hypersensitivity Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions ( e . g . Stevens Johnson syndrome ) , erythema multiforme , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) syndrome have been reported postmarketing with oral minocycline use .
DRESS syndrome consists of cutaneous reaction ( such as rash or exfoliative dermatitis ) , eosinophilia , and one or more of the following visceral complications such as : hepatitis , pneumonitis , nephritis , myocarditis , and pericarditis .
Fever and lymphadenopathy may be present .
In some cases , death has been reported with oral minocycline use .
If this syndrome is recognized , discontinue ZILXI immediately .
5 . 13 Tissue Hyperpigmentation Oral tetracyclines are known to cause hyperpigmentation .
Tetracycline therapy may induce hyperpigmentation in many organs , including nails , bone , skin , eyes , thyroid , visceral tissue , oral cavity ( teeth , mucosa , alveolar bone ) , sclerae and heart valves .
Skin and oral pigmentation has been reported to occur independently of time or amount of drug administration , whereas other tissue pigmentation has been reported to occur upon prolonged administration .
Skin pigmentation includes diffuse pigmentation as well as pigmentation over sites of scars or injury .
5 . 14 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria ZILXI has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections .
Bacterial resistance to the tetracyclines may develop in patients using ZILXI , therefore , the susceptibility of bacteria associated with infection should be considered in selecting antimicrobial therapy .
Because of the potential for drug - resistant bacteria to develop during the use of ZILXI , it should be used only as indicated .
5 . 15 Superinfection / Potential for Microbial Overgrowth Use of ZILXI may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , discontinue ZILXI and institute appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly observed adverse reaction ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) is diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - 375 - 3673 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In three ( two Phase 3 and one Phase 2 ) multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials , adult subjects applied ZILXI or vehicle once daily for 12 weeks .
A total of 1 , 087 subjects were treated with ZILXI and 591 with vehicle .
The majority of subjects were White ( 97 % ) and female ( 70 % ) .
Approximately 67 % were non - Hispanic / Latino .
The mean age was 50 . 0 years and ages ranged from 18 to 86 years .
The most common adverse reaction reported by ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with ZILXI and more frequently than in subjects treated with vehicle was diarrhea ( 1 % vs . 0 % ) , respectively .
During the two Phase 3 trials , local tolerability evaluations were conducted at each study visit by assessment of erythema , telangiectasia , burning / stinging , flushing / blushing , dryness , itching , peeling and hyperpigmentation .
Table 1 presents local tolerance assessments by incidence rate ( % ) and severity grade .
Subjects treated with ZILXI had improved local tolerability signs and symptoms at Week 12 when compared with corresponding baseline values .
These occurred at a similar frequency and severity as subjects treated with the vehicle component of ZILXI .
Table 1 : Facial Cutaneous Tolerability Assessment * Hyperpigmentation was most frequently assessed as characteristic of inflammatory and post - inflammatory changes associated with inflammatory lesions of rosacea .
** Of 1 , 008 subjects , 897 had local tolerability assessments at Week 12 .
ZILXI , ( % ) ( N = 1 , 008 ** ) Symptom / Severity Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 36 . 2 18 . 3 0 . 7 Telangiectasia 61 . 0 18 . 8 0 Burning / Stinging 13 . 3 2 . 8 0 Flushing / Blushing 39 . 0 9 . 6 0 . 9 Dryness 23 . 9 4 . 0 0 . 1 Itching 20 . 0 3 . 3 0 Skin Peeling 16 . 1 1 . 9 0 . 1 Hyperpigmentation * 22 . 5 2 . 8 0 In a 40 - week open - label extension safety study of ZILXI ( for a total of up to 52 weeks of treatment ) [ NCT03276936 ] , frequency and severity of local tolerability signs and symptoms at Week 52 were comparable to those reported at Week 12 .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Patients on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Penicillin : avoid coadministration .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Anticoagulants Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
7 . 2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
7 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Minocycline like other tetracycline - class drugs can cause fetal harm when administered orally to a pregnant woman .
( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 ) • • The use of drugs of the tetracycline - class orally during tooth development may cause permanent discoloration of teeth .
( 5 . 3 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) • • Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with ZILXI use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Systemic absorption of ZILXI in humans is low following once daily topical administration of ZILXI under maximal clinical use conditions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because of low systemic exposure , it is not expected that maternal use of ZILXI will result in significant fetal exposure to the drug .
Tetracycline - class drugs may cause permanent discoloration of teeth and reversible inhibition of bone growth when administered orally during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not conducted with ZILXI .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of minocycline to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis induced skeletal malformations in fetuses at systemic exposures of 2 , 000 and 1 , 300 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD based on AUC comparison ) of ZILXI ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Results of animal studies with oral administration indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause retardation of skeletal development of the developing fetus .
Minocycline induced skeletal malformations ( bent limb bones ) in fetuses when orally administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses of 30 mg / kg / day and 100 mg / kg / day , respectively , ( 2 , 000 times and 1 , 300 times , respectively , the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Reduced mean fetal body weight was observed when minocycline was orally administered to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at a dose of 10 mg / kg / day ( 680 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Minocycline was assessed for effects on peri - and post - natal development of rats in a study that involved oral administration to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis through lactation , at doses of 5 , 10 , or 50 mg / kg / day .
In this study , body weight gain was significantly reduced in pregnant females that received 50 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 700 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
No effects of treatment on the duration of the gestation period or the number of live pups born per litter were observed .
Gross external anomalies observed in F1 pups ( offspring of animals that received minocycline ) included reduced body size , improperly rotated forelimbs , and reduced size of extremities .
No effects were observed on the physical development , behavior , learning ability , or reproduction of F1 pups , and there was no effect on gross appearance of F2 pups ( offspring of F1 animals ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Tetracycline - class drugs , including minocycline , are present in breast milk following oral administration .
It is not known whether minocycline is present in human milk after topical administration to the nursing mother .
There are no data on the effects of minocycline on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with ZILXI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ZILXI for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea have not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use There were 278 subjects aged 65 or older in the clinical trials of ZILXI ( 16 . 6 % of 1 , 678 subjects ) .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Minocycline hydrochloride , a semi - synthetic derivative of tetracycline , is [ 4 S ‑ ( 4α , 4aα , 5aα , 12aα ) ] 4 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 10 , 12 , 12 a ‑ tetrahydroxy - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 2 - naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrochloride .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C23H27N3O7 • HClM .
W . 493 . 94 Each gram of ZILXI contains micronized 15 mg minocycline equivalent to 16 mg minocycline hydrochloride in a yellow suspension foam .
In addition , the 1 . 5 % ZILXI topical foam contains the following inactive ingredients : soybean oil , coconut oil , light mineral oil , cyclomethicone , cetostearyl alcohol , stearic acid , myristyl alcohol , hydrogenated castor oil , white wax ( beeswax ) , stearyl alcohol , docosanol .
ZILXI topical foam is dispensed from an aluminum container ( can ) pressurized with propellant ( butane + isobutane + propane ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ZILXI for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of ZILXI for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a pharmacokinetic study , male and female subjects 18 years of age or older with inflammatory lesions of rosacea ( N = 20 ) applied approximately 2 grams of ZILXI topically to the face once daily for 14 days .
The mean ± SD maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration time curve from 0 to 24 hours post dose ( AUC0 - 24 h ) for minocycline on Day 1 were 1 . 3 ± 0 . 9 ng / mL and 22 . 5 ± 16 . 2 h · ng / mL , respectively .
After daily application of ZILXI in subjects with inflammatory lesions of rosacea for 14 days , steady - state was reached by Day 1 and systemic accumulation of minocycline was not evident .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a carcinogenicity study in which minocycline hydrochloride was orally administered to male and female rats once daily for up to 104 weeks at dosages up to 200 mg / kg / day , minocycline hydrochloride was associated in both sexes with follicular cell tumors of the thyroid gland , including increased incidences of adenomas , carcinomas and the combined incidence of adenomas and carcinomas in males , and adenomas and the combined incidence of adenomas and carcinomas in females .
In a carcinogenicity study in which minocycline hydrochloride was orally administered to male and female mice once daily for up to 104 weeks at dosages up to 150 mg / kg / day , exposure to minocycline hydrochloride did not result in a significantly increased incidence of neoplasms in either males or females .
Minocycline was not mutagenic in vitro in a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) or CHO / HGPRT mammalian cell assay in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Minocycline was not clastogenic in vitro using human peripheral blood lymphocytes or in vivo in a mouse micronucleus test .
Male and female reproductive performance in rats was unaffected by oral doses of minocycline of up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 27 , 500 times the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
However , oral administration of 100 or 300 mg / kg / day of minocycline to male rats ( 10 , 000 or 27 , 500 times , respectively , the systemic exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) , adversely affected spermatogenesis .
Effects observed at 300 mg / kg / day of oral minocycline included a reduced number of sperm cells per gram of epididymis , an apparent reduction in the percentage of sperm that were motile , and ( at 100 and 300 mg / kg / day ) increased numbers of morphologically abnormal sperm cells .
Morphological abnormalities observed in sperm samples included absent heads , misshapen heads , and abnormal flagella .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of once daily use of ZILXI was assessed in two 12 - week multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials in subjects with inflammatory lesions of rosacea ( Trial 1 [ NCT02601963 ] and Trial 2 [ NCT03142451 ] ) .
Efficacy was assessed in a total of 1 , 522 subjects 18 years of age and older .
ZILXI or its vehicle were applied once daily for 12 weeks ; no other topical or systemic medication affecting the course of inflammatory lesions of rosacea was permitted for use during these trials .
Subjects were required to have an inflammatory lesion count in the range 15 - 75 lesions and an Investigator Global Assessment ( IGA ) score of 3 ( “ moderate ” ) or 4 ( “ severe ” ) at baseline .
Overall , 96 % of subjects were White and 71 % were female .
Three hundred and eighty - three ( 25 % ) subjects were 18 to 40 years of age , 899 ( 59 % ) subjects were 41 to 64 years of age , and 240 ( 16 % ) subjects were 65 years or older .
At baseline , subjects had a mean inflammatory lesion count of 29 . 4 .
Additionally , approximately 87 % of subjects had an IGA score of 3 ( “ moderate ” ) .
The co - primary efficacy endpoints were the absolute change from baseline in inflammatory lesion counts at Week 12 and the proportion of subjects with treatment success at Week 12 , defined as an IGA score of 0 ( “ clear ” ) or 1 ( “ almost clear ” ) , and at least a two - grade improvement ( decrease ) from baseline at Week 12 .
The efficacy results are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 Efficacy of ZILXI at Week 12 CI : Confidence Interval ( 1 ) IGA Success is defined as an IGA score of 0 or 1 and at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline ( 2 ) Treatment Difference and 95 % CI are based on the CMH test stratified by analysis center ( 3 ) Means presented in table are Least Square means ( 4 ) Treatment Difference and 95 % CI are based on ANCOVA model with treatment and analysis center as factors , and baseline value as covariate Trial 1 Trial 2 ZILXI ( N = 495 ) Vehicle ( N = 256 ) ZILXI ( N = 514 ) Vehicle ( N = 257 ) IGA Success ( 1 ) 52 . 1 % 43 . 0 % 49 . 1 % 39 . 0 % Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) ( 2 ) 9 . 0 % ( 1 . 3 % , 16 . 8 % ) 10 . 2 % ( 3 . 1 % , 17 . 4 % ) Inflammatory Lesion Count Mean Absolute Change from Baseline ( 3 ) - 17 . 6 - 15 . 4 - 18 . 4 - 14 . 5 Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) ( 4 ) - 2 . 2 ( - 3 . 7 , - 0 . 7 ) - 3 . 9 ( - 5 . 5 , - 2 . 2 ) Mean Percent Change from Baseline ( 3 ) - 61 . 3 % - 54 . 1 % - 60 . 2 % - 48 . 9 % Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) ( 4 ) - 7 . 3 % ( - 12 . 5 % , - 2 . 1 % ) - 11 . 3 % ( - 16 . 7 % , - 5 . 9 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied ZILXI ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % is a yellow suspension supplied in a pressurized aluminum aerosol container ( can ) .
Each gram of ZILXI contains 15 mg of minocycline equivalent to 16 mg of minocycline hydrochloride , and is supplied as follows : NDC 72356 - 103 - 03 30 g Can Storage ZILXI must be stored at 2 ºC – 8 ºC ( 36 ºF – 46 ºF ) until dispensed to the patient .
Once dispensed , the patient is to store ZILXI at room temperature below 25 ºC ( 77 ºF ) for 90 days .
Do not store in the refrigerator .
Handling Allow the can to warm to room temperature before first use .
Shake can well before use .
WARNING : Flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or temperatures above 49 oC ( 120 oF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Inform patients using ZILXI ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % of the following information and instructions : Flammability The propellant in ZILXI is flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid fire , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Tooth Discoloration Advise caregivers of pediatric patients that ZILXI may cause permanent discoloration of deciduous and permanent teeth during tooth development ( generally up to the age of 8 years ) based on observations with oral tetracycline .
Lactation Advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during ZILXI therapy .
Tissue Hyperpigmentation Inform patients that ZILXI may cause discoloration of skin , scars , teeth or gums based on observations with oral minocycline .
Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea Advise patients that Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea can occur with oral minocycline therapy .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop watery or bloody stools while using ZILXI .
Hepatotoxicity Inform patients about the possibility of hepatotoxicity reported with oral minocycline .
Advise patients to seek medical advice if they experience symptoms or signs of hepatotoxicity , including loss of appetite , tiredness , diarrhea , jaundice , increased bleeding tendencies , confusion , and sleepiness .
Central Nervous System Effects Inform patients that central nervous system adverse reactions including dizziness or vertigo have been reported with oral minocycline therapy .
Caution patients about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery if they experience such symptoms while on ZILXI .
Intracranial Hypertension Inform patients that intracranial hypertension can occur with minocycline therapy .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop unusual headache , visual symptoms , such as blurred vision , diplopia , and vision loss .
Photosensitivity Inform patients that photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking oral tetracyclines , including minocycline .
Advise patients to minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial UV light ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using ZILXI .
Discuss other sun protection measures , if patients need to be outdoors while using ZILXI .
Advise patients to discontinue treatment at the first evidence of sunburn .
Autoimmune Syndromes Inform patients that autoimmune syndromes , including drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis , vasculitis and serum sickness have been observed with oral tetracycline - class drugs , including minocycline .
Symptoms may be manifested by arthralgia , fever , rash and malaise .
Advise patients who experience such symptoms to stop the drug immediately and seek medical help .
Other Information ZILXI should be applied exactly as directed .
ZILXI may stain fabric .
Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 103G0002 ZILXI is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
PATIENT INFORMATION ZILXI ® ( ZILK - see ) ( minocycline ) topical foam Important Information : ZILXI is for use on the skin only ( topical use ) .
ZILXI is not for use in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is ZILXI ?
ZILXI is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat adults with pimples and bumps caused by a condition called rosacea .
ZILXI should not be used for the treatment of infections .
It is not known if ZILXI is safe and effective in children .
Do not use ZILXI if you are allergic to any tetracycline medicines or to any of the ingredients in ZILXI .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Before using ZILXI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have diarrhea or watery stools • have liver problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Taking tetracycline medicines by mouth during pregnancy may cause serious side effects on the growth of bone and teeth of your baby .
ZILXI topical foam is used on your skin and it is not known if it will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with ZILXI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the other medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements , and skin products you use .
Tetracycline medicines taken by mouth may affect the way other medicines work and may increase your chance of developing certain side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • a blood thinner medicine • a penicillin antibiotic medicine • isotretinoin Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
How should I use ZILXI ?
• See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” included with this leaflet for directions about how to apply ZILXI the right way .
• Use ZILXI exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Apply ZILXI to your entire face at about the same time each day , at least 1 hour before bedtime .
You should apply enough ZILXI to cover the entire face .
• Do not bathe , shower , or swim for at least 1 hour after applying ZILXI .
• Wash your hands after applying ZILXI .
What should I avoid while using ZILXI ?
• ZILXI is flammable .
Avoid fire , flames , and smoking when applying and right after you apply ZILXI .
• Limit your time in sunlight .
Avoid sunlight or artificial sunlight such as sunlamps or tanning beds .
Use sun protection measures such as sunscreen and wear loose - fitting clothes that cover your skin while out in sunlight .
Stop using ZILXI if you get sunburn .
• Minocycline taken by mouth may cause feelings of light - headedness , dizziness , or spinning ( vertigo ) .
You should not drive or operate dangerous machinery if you have these symptoms during treatment with ZILXI .
What are possible side effects of ZILXI ?
ZILXI contains minocycline , a tetracycline medicine .
Tetracyclines , when taken by mouth , may cause serious side effects , including : • Harm to an unborn baby .
See “ What should I tell my healthcare provider before using ZILXI ? ”
• Permanent tooth discoloration .
Tetracycline medicine when taken by mouth may permanently turn a baby or child ' s teeth yellow - gray - brown during tooth development .
You should not use ZILXI during tooth development .
Tooth development happens in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , and from birth up to 8 years of age .
• Slow bone growth .
Tetracycline medicine taken by mouth may slow bone growth in infants and children .
Slow bone growth is reversible after stopping treatment .
• Diarrhea .
Diarrhea can happen with most antibiotics , including minocycline taken by mouth .
This diarrhea may be caused by an infection ( Clostridioides difficile ) in your intestines .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get watery or bloody stools while using ZILXI .
• Liver problems .
Minocycline taken by mouth can cause serious liver problems that may lead to death .
Stop using ZILXI and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms of liver problems : o loss of appetite o tiredness o diarrhea o yellowing of your skin or the white of your eyes ( jaundice ) o bleeding more easily than normal o confusion o sleepiness • Central nervous system effects .
See “ What should I avoid while using ZILXI ? ”
• Increased pressure in the brain ( intracranial hypertension ) .
This condition may lead to vision changes and permanent vision loss .
You are more likely to get intracranial hypertension if you are a female of childbearing potential and are overweight or have a history of intracranial hypertension .
Stop using ZILXI and tell your healthcare provider right away if you have blurred vision , double vision , vision loss , or unusual headaches .
• Immune system reactions including a lupus - like syndrome , hepatitis , and inflammation of blood or lymph vessels ( vasculitis ) have happened during treatment with minocycline taken by mouth .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get a fever , rash , joint pain , or body weakness .
• Sensitivity to sunlight ( photosensitivity ) .
See “ What should I avoid while using ZILXI ? ”
• Serious skin or allergic reactions have happened during treatment with minocycline taken by mouth that may affect parts of your body such as your liver , lungs , kidneys and heart .
Sometimes these can lead to death .
Stop using ZILXI and go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms : o skin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or your skin blisters and peels o swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue , or throat o trouble swallowing or breathing o blood in your urine o fever , yellowing of the skin or the whites of your eyes ( jaundice ) , dark colored urine o pain on the right side of the stomach area ( abdominal pain ) o chest pain or abnormal heartbeats o swelling in your legs , ankles , and feet • Discoloration ( hyperpigmentation ) .
Minocycline taken by mouth may cause darkening of your skin , scars , teeth , or gums .
The most common side effect of ZILXI is diarrhea .
Your healthcare provider may stop your treatment with ZILXI if you develop certain side effects .
These are not all the possible side effects with ZILXI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ZILXI ?
• Store ZILXI at room temperature below 77ºF ( 25ºC ) for 90 days .
• Do not store ZILXI in the refrigerator .
• Do not puncture or burn the ZILXI can .
• Do not expose to heat or temperatures above 120ºF ( 49ºC ) Keep ZILXI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ZILXI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ZILXI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ZILXI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can also ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ZILXI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ZILXI ?
Active ingredient : minocycline Inactive ingredients : soybean oil , coconut oil , light mineral oil , cyclomethicone , cetostearyl alcohol , stearic acid , myristyl alcohol , hydrogenated castor oil , white wax ( beeswax ) , stearyl alcohol , docosanol .
ZILXI is dispensed from an aluminum container ( can ) pressurized with propellant ( butane + isobutane + propane ) .
Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 103G1002 ZILXI is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . ZILXI . com or call VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 844 - 375 - 3673 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 01 / 2021 Instructions for Use ZILXI ® ( ZILK - see ) ( minocycline ) topical foam Important Information : ZILXI is for use on skin only ( topical use ) .
ZILXI is not for use in your mouth , eyes or vagina .
Read this Instructions for Use before you start using ZILXI and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Use ZILXI exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Before applying ZILXI : • When using a new ZILXI can , wait until the can has warmed to room temperature before use .
• If necessary , wash your face gently with a mild non - medicated cleanser , rinse with water , and pat your skin dry .
• Apply ZILXI to your entire face at about the same time each day , at least 1 hour before bedtime .
Step 1 : Shake the can well .
Place thumb under tab above nozzle and lift up to remove the cap from the ZILXI can .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Press the top of the can to dispense a small amount ( cherry - sized amount ) of ZILXI onto your fingertips .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Apply a thin layer of ZILXI and gently rub onto your entire face .
You may need to use additional ZILXI to make sure that your entire face is treated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wash your hands after applying ZILXI .
• ZILXI can stain fabric .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 01 / 2021 Manufactured by : ASM Aerosol - Service AG , Mohlin , Switzerland Manufactured for : VYNE Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Product of Portugal or Switzerland 103G2002 ZILXI is a registered trademark of an affiliate of VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners .
Copyright © 2020 , VYNE Therapeutics Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL ZILXI Trade Labels for Country - of - Origin Portugal [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 03 zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 03 zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 30 g ZILXI Physician Sample Labels for Country - of - Origin Portugal [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 7 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 7 g ZILXI Trade Labels for Country - of - Origin Switzerland [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 03 zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 03 zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 30 g ZILXI Physician Sample Labels for Country - of - Origin Switzerland [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 7 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 72356 - 103 - 90 Physician Sample Not for Sale zilxi ® ( minocycline ) topical foam , 1 . 5 % For topical use only , not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use Rx only 7 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
