Active ingredients : Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg Ready to Use SINUS WASH Inactive ingredients : Purified Water ISP Benzalkonium Chloride USP ( Preservative ) Warning : When Using Bottle With Refill Packets Do Not Use Unfiltered Tap Water .
Use either distilled , or sterile , or filered water ( using a filter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron or smaller ) or previously boiled water ( boil water 1 minute or 3 minutes if at elevations above 6500 feet then allow to cool to body temperature ) .
Questions or Comments 1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 See Instruction Sheet Inside Box for Complete Directions and Proper Use Sinus Wash Pre - Filled Ready to Use Saline Sinus Wash Kit Instructions DO NOT SINUS WASH WITH UNFILTERED TAP WATER .
See important note * for proper water sources .
Read through entire instruction sheet before using for the first time .
What is the Sinus Wash Kit ?
The Sinus Wash Kit is an all natural and medically proven method for relieving allergies , nasal congestion , discomfort caused by dry air , sinus infections , rhinitis of pregnancy and soothing irritated nasal passages .
It gently washes away mucus buildup from the nose and improves breathing .
Because it is gentle , it can be used up to every 2 hours as needed .
Some people use it as routinely as they brush their teeth while others use it only on days when they need it .
* IMPORTANT NOTE Do not sinus wash with unfiltered tap water .
Use either distilled , or sterile , or fi ltered ( using a filter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron or smaller ) or previously boiled water ( boil water 1 minute or 3 minutes if at elevations above 6 , 500 feet , then allow to cool to body temperature ) .
Refill instructions for the Ready to Use Sinus Wash Kit ( with saline packets ) Read through entire section .
The Ready to Use Sinus Wash Kit can be used with the enclosed Saline packets to make either an Isotonic or Hypertonic solution .
Check with the guide below or consult with your physician for best use .
An Isotonic solution creates a mild , less concentrated salt solution of 9 mg of Sodium Chloride per mL of water , which has a similar salt concentration of your body and may be more comfortable to use for some people initially than a more concentrated Hypertonic solution .
A Hypertonic solution creates a higher , more concentrated salt solution which is similar to the salt content of ocean water .
1 .
Wash your hands and make sure the bottle has been rinsed with water that has been either distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled .
2 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry ingredients into the Squeeze Bottle .
First - time users should start with 1 packet of the saline dry ingredients to make an isotonic solution .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 2 full packets for a hypertonic solution .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the bottle to the 8 oz line with proper water * .
4 .
Tighten the cap on the bottle securely , place one finger over the tip of the cap and gently shake the bottle until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
5 .
Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Place the tip of the cap up to the right nostril and gently insert the tip so that it forms a comfortable seal .
Aim the tip at the back of your head , not at the top of your head .
( continued on back ) Hints for a more comfortable nasal wash : • Begin using the Sinus Wash System slowly – especially with children .
A full pot or bottle of solution on each side is not necessary to receive the full benefit .
• If the solution is too warm or too cold , the nasal wash will be uncomfortable .
• If stinging or irritation occurs , try using 1 packet of dry ingredients per pot or bottle .
Gradually work up to using the solution at full strength using 2 full packets per bottle .
Do not use less than 1 packet .
• If you experience ear discomfort after use , try to blow your nose more gently after the wash .
If the problem persists , the openings of your Eustachian tubes may be particularly wide and use of the system should be discontinued .
• Breathe continuously through the mouth when using the Sinus Wash System to avoid solution draining from the back of the nose into the mouth .
• Some people experience irritation of the skin just inside the nostrils with repeated nasal washing .
Applying a thin layer of aloe to the inside of the nostrils before or after the nasal wash will be soothing See Instruction Sheet Inside Box See Instruction Sheet Inside Box See Instruction Sheet Inside Box [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
