Rx only DESCRIPTION : Hydroxyzine Pamoate is a light yellow , practically odorless powder , practically insoluble in water and methanol and freely soluble in dimethylformamide .
It is chemically designated as 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - chloro - α - p h e n y l b e n z y l ) - 1 - p i p e r a z i n y l ] - ethoxy ] ethanol 4 , 4 ’ - methylenebis [ 3 - hydroxy - 2 - naphthoate ] ( 1 : 1 ) and can be structurally represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydroxyzine Pamoate Capsules produce an ataraxic effect and they are administered in doses equivalent to 25 mg , 50 mg or 100 mg of hydroxyzine HCl .
Inactive Ingredients : Croscarmellose sodium , ethyl alcohol , magnesium stearate , and pregelatinized starch .
The 25 mg also contains anhydrous lactose .
The 50 mg and 100 mg also contain lactose monohydrate .
The capsule shell ingredients are D & C red no . 28 , D & C yellow no . 10 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
The 25 mg capsule shell also contains benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , EDTA calcium disodium , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , methylparaben , propylparaben , and sodium propionate .
The 50 mg capsule shell also contains benzyl alcohol , butylparaben , D & C red no . 33 , EDTA calcium disodium , methylparaben , propylparaben , and sodium propionate .
The 100 mg capsule shell also contains FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , and silicon dioxide .
The imprinting ink contains pharmaceutical glaze , propylene glycol , SDA - 3 A alcohol , and synthetic black iron oxide .
The imprinting ink on the 25 mg and 50 mg capsules also contain ammonium hydroxide , dimethylpolysiloxane , ethylene glycol monoethyl ether , and lecithin .
The imprinting ink on the 100 mg capsule also contains n - butyl alcohol , D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake , and FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Hydroxyzine pamoate is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia , Hydroxyzine maypotentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS : Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS : THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS , AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine , their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of the drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine pamoate .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
Geriatric Use : A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine pamoate included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine pamoate has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine pamoate and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine pamoate are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Anticholinergic : Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System : Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity , including rare instances of tremor and convulsions , has been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
Overdosage : The most common manifestation of overdosage of hydroxyzine pamoate is hypersedation .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and levarterenol or metaraminol .
Do not use epinephrine , as hydroxyzine pamoate counteracts its pressor action .
Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP , may be used to counteract central nervous system depressant effects .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : In adults , 50 - 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : In adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 - 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all medications , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED : Hydroxyzine Pamoate Capsules , USP is equivalent to hydroxyzine hydrochloride .
25 mg : Light yellow opaque cap / pink opaque body filled with yellow powder .
Imprinted in black ink stylized barr over 323 / 25 .
50 mg : Light yellow opaque cap / maroon opaque body filled with yellow powder .
Imprinted in black ink stylized barr over 302 / 50 .
100 mg : Light yellow opaque cap / pink opaque body filled with yellow powder .
Imprinted in black ink stylized barr over 324 / 100 .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 0373 - 1 25 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack PINK 0555 - 0323 53808 - 0374 - 1 50 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack MAROON 0555 - 0302 00555 - 0324 - 1 100 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack PINK 0555 - 0324 Dispense with a child - resistant closure in a well - closed container as defined in the USP / NF .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
MANUFACTURED BY BARR LABORATORIES , INC .
POMONA , NY 10970 This Product was Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States 25 mg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 mg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 mg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
