DESCRIPTION Luxiq Foam contains betamethasone valerate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory agents .
Betamethasone valerate is 9 - fluoro11ß , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16ß - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - valerate , with the empirical formula C27H37FO6 , a molecular weight of 476 . 58 .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone valerate , USP is a white to practically white , odorless crystalline powder , and is practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in acetone and in chloroform , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in benzene and in ether .
Luxiq ® ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % , contains 1 . 2 mg betamethasone valerate , USP , per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 . 4 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , betamethasone valerate foam has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption .
The use of pharmacodynamic endpoints for assessing the systemic exposure of topical corticosteroids is necessary due to the fact that circulating levels are well below the level of detection .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
They are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
In addition , some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Luxiq has been demonstrated in a four - week trial .
An adequate and well - controlled clinical trial was conducted in 190 patients with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis .
Patients were treated twice daily for four weeks with Luxiq Foam , Placebo foam , a commercially available betamethasone valerate lotion 0 . 12 % ( formerly expressed as 0 . 1 % betamethasone ) , or Placebo lotion .
At four weeks of treatment , study results of 159 patients demonstrated that the efficacy of Luxiq Foam in treating scalp psoriasis is superior to that of Placebo foam , and is comparable to that of a currently marketed BMV lotion ( see Table below ) .
Subjects with Target Lesion Parameter Clear at Endpoint Luxiq Foam n ( % ) BMV lotion n ( % ) Placebo foam n ( % ) Scaling 30 ( 47 % ) 22 ( 35 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) Erythema 26 ( 41 % ) 16 ( 25 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) Plaque Thickness 42 ( 66 % ) 25 ( 40 % ) 5 ( 16 % ) Investigator ' s Global : Subjects Completely Clear or Almost Clear at Endpoint 43 ( 67 % ) 29 ( 46 % ) 6 ( 19 % ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Luxiq is a medium potency topical corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses of the scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Luxiq is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone valerate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has caused reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , Luxiq should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Luxiq should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated scalp area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test A . M . plasma cortisol test Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of betamethasone valerate .
Betamethasone was genotoxic in the in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay with metabolic activation and in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Pregnancy Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Luxiq should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Luxiq is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse event was burning / itching / stinging at the application site ; the incidence and severity of this event were as follows : Incidence and severity of burning / itching / stinging Maximum severity Product Total incidence Mild Moderate Severe Luxiq Foam n = 63 34 ( 54 % ) 28 ( 44 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Betamethasone valerate lotion n = 63 33 ( 52 % ) 26 ( 41 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Placebo Foam n = 32 24 ( 75 % ) 13 ( 41 % ) 7 ( 22 % ) 4 ( 12 % ) Placebo Lotion n = 30 20 ( 67 % ) 12 ( 40 % ) 5 ( 17 % ) 3 ( 10 % ) Other adverse events which were considered to be possibly , probably , or definitely related to Luxiq occurred in 1 patient each ; these were paresthesia , pruritus , acne , alopecia , and conjunctivitis .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : irritation ; dryness ; folliculitis ; acneiform eruptions ; hypopigmentation ; perioral dermatitis ; allergic contact dermatitis ; secondary infection ; skin atrophy ; striae ; and miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Luxiq can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note : For proper dispensing of foam , can must be inverted .
For application to the scalp invert can and dispense a small amount of Luxiq onto a saucer or other cool surface .
Do not dispense directly onto hands as foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin .
Pick up small amounts of foam with fingers and gently massage into affected area until foam disappears .
Repeat until entire affected scalp area is treated .
Apply twice daily , once in the morning and once at night .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Luxiq should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Luxiq ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % contains 1 . 2 mg of betamethasone valerate , USP per gram .
It is available as follows : NDC 0378 - 8187 - 50 carton containing one 50 g aluminum can NDC 0378 - 8187 - 01 carton containing one 100 g aluminum can Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
WARNING FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
PATIENT INFORMATION Luxiq ® ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % About Luxiq Your doctor has prescribed Luxiq ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % , for the relief of corticosteroid - responsive skin conditions of the scalp .
Luxiq works because its active ingredient is betamethasone valerate , 0 . 12 % .
Betamethasone belongs to a group of medicines known as topical corticosteroids .
These agents are used to reduce the inflammation , redness , swelling , itching , and tenderness associated with dermatologic conditions .
Other ingredients in Luxiq include cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol .
The foam is dispensed from an aluminum can that is pressurized by a hydrocarbon propellant ( propane and butane ) .
If you answer YES to one or more of the following questions , tell your doctor ( or pharmacist ) before using this medicine , so you can get advice about what to do .
• • Are you allergic to any of the ingredients contained in Luxiq ?
• • Are you pregnant ?
Planning on becoming pregnant while using Luxiq ?
Or are you breastfeeding ?
• • Do you think you have an infection on your scalp ?
How to apply Luxiq [ MULTIMEDIA ] Turn the can upside down and dispense a small amount of Luxiq onto a clean saucer or other cool , clean surface .
Do not dispense directly onto hands , as foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin .
Pick up small amounts of foam with fingers and gently massage into affected area until foam disappears .
Repeat until entire affected scalp area is treated .
Apply twice daily , once in the morning and once at night .
Use sparingly – only enough to cover the affected areas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Gently massage the foam in until it is absorbed and allow the areas to dry naturally .
When applying to the scalp , move the hair away so that the foam can be applied directly to each affected area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash your hands immediately after applying Luxiq , and discard any unused dispensed medication .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not wash or rinse the treated areas immediately after applying Luxiq .
• • Do not use this medication for any condition other than the one for which it was prescribed .
• • Luxiq is for external use only .
• • Keep the foam away from your eyes , as it will sting .
If the foam gets into your eyes , rinse well with cold water .
If the stinging continues , contact your doctor immediately .
WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT LUXIQ : What to do if you miss an application If you forget to apply Luxiq at the scheduled time , use it as soon as you remember , and then go back to your regular schedule .
If you remember at or about the time of your next daily application , apply that dose and continue with your normal application schedule .
If you miss several doses , tell your doctor at your next appointment .
About side effects As with all medications , there may be some side effects .
The most frequent side effects associated with the use of Luxiq include mild burning , stinging , or itching at the site of application .
These side effects typically disappear shortly after application .
Let your doctor know if you notice any of the following : • • Any unusual effects that you do not understand .
• • Affected areas that do not seem to be healing after several weeks of using the foam .
Important safety notes • • The treated areas should not be bandaged or covered unless directed by your doctor .
• • Keep this and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• • Store the can at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) and protect it from direct sunlight , as this is a pressurized container .
• • Keep away from and do not spray near fire , open flame , or direct heat -- this product is flammable .
Do not smoke while using or holding the can .
Keep the can away from all sources of ignition .
Do not pierce or burn the can , and never throw the can in a fire , even if empty .
• • When you have finished your treatment , dispose of the can safely .
A completely empty can is recyclable .
• • Do not use the foam after the expiration date shown on the bottom of the can .
• • Do not give Luxiq to anyone else .
Your doctor has prescribed this medicine for your use only .
For additional information visit www . luxiq . com Questions : Call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
Side effects should be reported to this number .
LUXIQ is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies © 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . 140989 - 0418 Revised : 4 / 2018 DPT : BETAFON : R1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 0 . 12 % NDC 0378 - 8187 - 50 Luxiq ® ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % Rx only 50 g FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Invert can and then press firmly to dispense .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Description : Luxiq ® ( betamethasone valerate ) Foam , 0 . 12 % , contains 1 . 2 mg betamethasone valerate , USP , per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 . 4 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
For application to the scalp , invert can and dispense a small amount of Luxiq onto a saucer or other cool surface .
( Do not dispense directly onto hands , as foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin . )
Pick up small amounts of foam with fingers and gently massage into affected area until foam disappears .
Repeat until entire affected scalp area is treated .
Apply twice daily , once in the morning and once at night .
WARNING : FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Keep away from eyes or other mucous membranes .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
CFC FREE Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . For additional information , visit luxiq . com Questions : Call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
Side effects should be reported to this number .
Mylan . com DPT : 8187 : 50 : 1 C : R1 117518 - 0418 © 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company LUXIQ is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
