Active Ingredient Menthol 7 . 5 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains associated with : • • arthritis • • simple backache • • bursitis • • tendonitis • • muscle strains • • sprains • • bruises • • cramps Warnings For external use only When using this product • • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this label • • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • • do not use more than 4 patches at a time Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens • • redness is present • • irritation develops • • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children over 12 years : • • gently fold patch in half and remove one side of backing .
Apply exposed adhesive to the site of pain .
• • remove remaining film from the other side and finish applying to skin .
• • use on affected areas for up to 12 hours children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients glyceryl hydrogenated rosinate , hydrated silica , mineral oil , PEG - 400 , polyisobutene , styrene / isoprene copolymer Distributed by Chattem , Inc .
309 - 106 P . O . Box 2219 , Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2014 Chattem , Inc . www . icyhot . com Made in Japan .
0065509 - 01 Principal Display Panel – Micro Patch ICY HOT ® MEDICATED MICRO PATCH Menthol 7 . 5 % TARGETED RELIEF • • Stiffness • • Tension Points • • Muscle Aches • • Joint Pain • • Arthritis Back , Shoulder , Elbow , Neck , Knee & Small Areas Contains 24 Patches in 1 Resealable Pouch 2 . 56 " x 1 . 65 " ( 6 . 5 cm x 4 . 2 cm ) each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
