1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AZOPT ® is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
AZOPT is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of AZOPT in the affected eye ( s ) 3 times daily .
AZOPT may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower IOP .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least 10 minutes apart .
• Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) 3 times daily .
( 2 ) • If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least 10 minutes apart .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic suspension containing brinzolamide 10 mg / mL ( 1 % ) .
Ophthalmic suspension containing brinzolamide 10 mg / mL ( 1 % ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AZOPT is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions .
( 5 . 1 ) • Corneal edema may occur in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity Reactions AZOPT is a sulfonamide and although administered topically , it is absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration of AZOPT .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur , discontinue the use of this preparation .
5 . 2 Corneal Endothelium Carbonic anhydrase activity has been observed in both the cytoplasm and around the plasma membranes of the corneal endothelium .
There is an increased potential for developing corneal edema in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
Caution should be used when prescribing AZOPT to this group of patients .
5 . 3 Severe Renal Impairment AZOPT has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment [ creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) less than 30 mL / min ] .
Because AZOPT and its metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney , AZOPT is not recommended in such patients .
5 . 4 Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma The management of patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma requires therapeutic interventions in addition to ocular hypotensive agents .
AZOPT has not been studied in patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma .
5 . 5 Risk of Contamination Avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures or other surfaces , since the product can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
5 . 6 Contact Lens Wear The preservative in AZOPT , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of AZOPT , but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence 5 % to 10 % ) are blurred vision and bitter , sour , or unusual taste .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical studies of AZOPT , the most frequently reported adverse reactions reported in 5 % to 10 % of patients were blurred vision and bitter , sour , or unusual taste .
Adverse reactions occurring in 1 % to 5 % of patients were blepharitis , dermatitis , dry eye , foreign body sensation , headache , hyperemia , ocular discharge , ocular discomfort , ocular keratitis , ocular pain , ocular pruritus , and rhinitis .
The following adverse reactions were reported at an incidence below 1 % : allergic reactions , alopecia , chest pain , conjunctivitis , diarrhea , diplopia , dizziness , dry mouth , dyspnea , dyspepsia , eye fatigue , hypertonia , keratoconjunctivitis , keratopathy , kidney pain , lid margin crusting or sticky sensation , nausea , pharyngitis , tearing , and urticaria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • There is a potential additive effect of the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving both oral and topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors .
( 7 . 1 ) • Rare instances of acid - base alterations have occurred with high - dose salicylate therapy .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and AZOPT .
The concomitant administration of AZOPT and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended .
7 . 2 High - Dose Salicylate Therapy Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may produce acid - base and electrolyte alterations .
These alterations were not reported in the clinical trials with brinzolamide .
However , in patients treated with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , rare instances of acid - base alterations have occurred with high - dose salicylate therapy .
Therefore , the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving AZOPT .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women to inform drug - associated risk .
In reproductive toxicity studies , brinzolamide administered orally to rats induced fetal toxicity at 375 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( RHOD ) based on mg / kg .
In rabbits , no fetal toxicity was observed following oral administration ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown ; however , in the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal studies were conducted in pregnant rats administered 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day brinzolamide by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 17 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Decreased fetal body weight with reduced skeletal ossification were observed at 18 mg / kg / day ( 375 times the RHOD based on mg / kg ) .
The no - observed - adverse - effect - level ( NOAEL ) for fetal toxicity was 6 mg / kg / day ( 125 times the RHOD ) .
Decreased maternal weight gain was observed at 18 mg / kg / day .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 6 mg / kg / day ( 125 times the RHOD ) .
Embryo - fetal studies were conducted in pregnant rabbits administered 0 , 1 , 3 , or 6 mg / kg / day of brinzolamide by oral gavage on gestation days 6 to 18 , to target the period of organogenesis .
No treatment - related fetal effects were observed at any dose .
The NOAEL for fetal toxicity was 6 mg / kg / day ( 125 times the RHOD based on mg / kg ) .
Maternal weight loss during pregnancy was observed at 3 mg / kg / day ( 63 times the RHOD ) and above .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 1 mg / kg / day ( 21 times the RHOD ) .
A peri - / postnatal study was conducted in rats administered brinzolamide by oral gavage from gestation day 16 through lactation day 20 .
Decreased pup body weight was observed at 15 mg / kg / day ( 313 times the RHOD based on mg / kg ) .
The NOAEL for developmental toxicity was 5 mg / kg / day ( 104 times the RHOD ) .
Following oral administration of 14 C - brinzolamide to pregnant rats , radioactivity was found to cross the placenta and was present in the fetal tissues and blood .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of brinzolamide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Brinzolamide has been detected in the milk of lactating rats .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for AZOPT and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from AZOPT .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use A 3 - month controlled clinical study was conducted in which AZOPT was dosed only twice a day in pediatric patients 4 weeks to 5 years of age .
Patients were not required to discontinue their IOP - lowering medication ( s ) until initiation of monotherapy with AZOPT .
IOP - lowering efficacy was not demonstrated in this study in which the mean decrease in elevated IOP was between 0 mmHg and 2 mmHg .
Five out of 32 patients demonstrated an increase in corneal diameter of one millimeter .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Although no human data are available , electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and possible nervous system effects may occur following oral administration of an overdose .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
11 DESCRIPTION AZOPT contains a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor formulated for multidose topical ophthalmic use .
Brinzolamide is described chemically as : ( R ) - ( + ) - 4 - Ethylamino - 2 - ( 3 - methoxypropyl ) - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - thieno [ 3 , 2 - e ] - 1 , 2 - thiazine - 6 - sulfonamide - 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C12H21N3O5S3 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Brinzolamide has a molecular weight of 383 . 5 g / mol and a melting point of about 131 ° C .
It is a white powder , which is insoluble in water , very soluble in methanol and soluble in ethanol .
AZOPT is supplied as a sterile , aqueous suspension of brinzolamide which has been formulated to be readily suspended and slow settling , following shaking .
It has a pH of approximately 7 . 5 and an osmolality of 300 mOsm / kg .
Each mL of AZOPT contains : Active ingredient : brinzolamide 10 mg ; Preservative : Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg ; Inactives : carbomer 974 P , edetate disodium , mannitol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , purified water , sodium chloride , and tyloxapol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carbonic anhydrase is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body , including the eye .
It catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In humans , carbonic anhydrase exists as a number of isoenzymes , the most active being carbonic anhydrase II , found primarily in red blood cells ( RBCs ) , but also in other tissues .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor secretion , presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport .
The result is a reduction in IOP .
AZOPT contains brinzolamide , an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase II .
Following topical ocular administration , brinzolamide inhibits aqueous humor formation and reduces elevated IOP .
Elevated IOP is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following topical ocular administration , brinzolamide is absorbed into the systemic circulation .
Due to its affinity for carbonic anhydrase II , brinzolamide distributes extensively into the RBCs and exhibits a long half - life in whole blood ( approximately 111 days ) .
In humans , the metabolite N - desethyl brinzolamide is formed , which also binds to carbonic anhydrase and accumulates in RBCs .
This metabolite binds mainly to carbonic anhydrase I in the presence of brinzolamide .
In plasma , both parent brinzolamide and N - desethyl brinzolamide concentrations are low and generally below assay quantitation limits ( less than 10 ng / mL ) .
Binding to plasma proteins is approximately 60 % .
Brinzolamide is eliminated predominantly in the urine as unchanged drug .
N - Desethyl brinzolamide is also found in the urine along with lower concentrations of the N - desmethoxypropyl and O - desmethyl metabolites .
An oral pharmacokinetic study was conducted in which healthy volunteers received 1 mg capsules of brinzolamide twice per day for up to 32 weeks .
This regimen approximates the amount of drug delivered by topical ocular administration of AZOPT dosed to both eyes 3 times per day and simulates systemic drug and metabolite concentrations similar to those achieved with long - term topical dosing .
Red blood cell carbonic anhydrase activity was measured to assess the degree of systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibition .
Brinzolamide saturation of RBC carbonic anhydrase II was achieved within 4 weeks ( RBC concentrations of approximately 20 mcM ) .
N - Desethyl brinzolamide accumulated in RBCs to steady - state within 20 to 28 weeks reaching concentrations ranging from 6 to 30 mcM .
The inhibition of carbonic anhydrase II activity at steady - state was approximately 70 % to 75 % , which is below the degree of inhibition expected to have a pharmacological effect on renal function or respiration in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Brinzolamide caused urinary bladder tumors in female mice at oral doses of 10 mg / kg / day and in male rats at oral doses of 8 mg / kg / day in 2 - year studies .
Brinzolamide was not carcinogenic in male mice or female rats dosed orally for up to 2 years .
The carcinogenicity appears secondary to kidney and urinary bladder toxicity .
These levels of exposure cannot be achieved with topical ophthalmic dosing in humans .
Mutagenesis The following tests for mutagenic potential were negative : ( 1 ) in vivo mouse micronucleus assay ; ( 2 ) in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay ; and ( 3 ) Ames E . coli test .
The in vitro mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay was negative in the absence of activation , but positive in the presence of microsomal activation .
Impairment of Fertility In reproduction studies of brinzolamide in rats , there were no adverse effects on the fertility or reproductive capacity of males or females at doses up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 375 times the RHOD based on mg / kg ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two , 3 - month clinical studies , AZOPT dosed 3 times per day in patients with elevated IOP , produced significant reductions in IOPs ( 4 mmHg to 5 mmHg ) .
These IOP reductions are equivalent to the reductions observed with TRUSOPT * ( dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 2 % dosed 3 times per day in the same studies .
In 2 clinical studies in patients with elevated IOP , AZOPT was associated with less stinging and burning upon instillation than TRUSOPT * 2 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AZOPT ( brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % is supplied in plastic dispensers with a controlled dispensing - tip as follows : 10 mL NDC 0078 - 0722 - 10 15 mL NDC 0078 - 0722 - 15 Storage and Handling Store AZOPT at 4 ° C to 30 ° C ( 39 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Shake well before use .
After opening , AZOPT can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that if serious or unusual ocular or systemic reactions or signs of hypersensitivity occur , they should discontinue the use of the product and consult their physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Temporary Blurred Vision Vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with AZOPT .
Advise patients to exercise care in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Avoiding Contamination of the Product Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures or other surfaces , since the product can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Intercurrent Ocular Conditions Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multi - dose container .
Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten minutes apart .
Contact Lens Wear The preservative in AZOPT , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of AZOPT , but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
* TRUSOPT is a registered trademark of Merck & Co . , Inc .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2021 - 96 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0078 - 0722 - 10 Azopt ® ( brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % 10 mL NOVARTIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
