Active ingredient ( in each spray ) Fluticasone furoate 27 . 5 mcg ( glucocorticold ) * * read the Question & Answer Book Purpose Allergy symptom reliever Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • • nasal congestion • • runny nose • • sneezing • • itchy nose • • itchy , watery eyes ( for ages 12 and older ) Warnings Only for use in the nose .
Do not spray into your eyes or mouth .
Do not use • • in children under 2 years of age • • to treat asthma • • if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed • • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • • medicine for HIV infection ( such as ritonavir ) • • a steroid medicine for asthma , allergies or skin rash • • ketoconazole pills ( medicine for fungal infection ) When using this product • • the growth rate of some children may be slower • • stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use • • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you have , or come into contact with someone who has , chicken pox , measles or tuberculosis • • your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge .
You may have something more than allergies , such as an infection .
• • you get a constant whistling sound from your nose .
This may be a sign of damage inside your nose .
• • you get an allergic reaction to this product .
Seek medical help right away .
• • you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product • • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast – feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • read the Quick Start Guide for how to : • • shake vigorously before each use • • prime the bottle • • use the spray • • sniff gently after each spray • • clean the spray nozzle with a clean dry tissue • • use this product only once a day • • do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER • • Week 1 - use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily • • Week 2 through 6 months - use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily , as needed to treat your symptoms • • After 6 months of daily use – ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 2 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE • • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product .
Children should use for the shortest amount of time necessary to achieve symptom relief .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year .
• • an adult should supervise use • • use 1 spray in each nostril once daily CHILDREN UNDER 2 YEARS OF AGE • • do not use Other information • • you may start to feel relief the first day and full effect after several days of regular , once - a - day use • • store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) • • do not refrigerate or freeze • • keep this label and enclosed materials .
They contain important additional information .
Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose anhydrous , edentate disodium , microcrystalline cellulose , polysorbate 80 , purified water Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 844 - FLONASE ( 1 - 844 - 356 - 6273 ) Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0616 - 01 CHILDREN ’ s FLONASE ® SENSIMIST ™ ALLERGY RELIEF GENTLE MIST • SCENT FREE • ALCOHOL FREE Fluticasone Furoate Nasal Spray 27 . 5 mcg Per Spray Allergy Symptom Reliever ( Glucocorticoid ) * Full Prescription Strength Non - Drowsy 24 Hour Relief of : • • Nasal Congestion • • Runny Nose • • Itchy Nose • • Sneezing 24 HOUR RELIEF * Fluticasone furoate is a steroid medicine known as a glucocorticoid .
60 METERED SPRAYS 0 . 20 fl oz ( 5 . 9 mL ) © 2015 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
All rights reserved .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
Distirbuted by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Made in Singapore IMPORTANT – Peel here for complete Drug Facts label .
Children 2 - 11 : do not use for more than 2 months a year .
Be sure to read the Quick Start Guide and Question & Answer Book inside package TAMPER - EVIDENT features for your protection .
The product is packaged in a sealed plastic container .
The bottle is housed within a plastic dispenser that prevents direct access to the bottle .
Do not use if the container or any part of the plastic dispenser , including the dispenser bottom , is damaged or broken .
Do not use if any of these features are torn or damaged .
What problems can FLONASE ® SENSIMIST ™ Allergy Relief help with ?
FLONASE SENSIMIST Allergy Relief helps relieve a broad range of uncomfortable symptoms like congestion and itchy eyes .
Nasal symptoms Eye symptoms These symptoms can be triggered by allergens like pollen , mold , dust or pet dander .
Outdoor allergens Animal allergens Indoor allergens • Backer card : 105625 XA • Peel Back Label : 105629 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
