Active ingredient Dextromethorphan Polistirex Purpose Use ( s ) temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Keep Out of Reach of Children Uses Use ( s ) temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Warnings Do not use Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • chronic cough that lasts as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are When using this product Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , cough comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions • shake bottle well before use • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use dosing cup with other products .
• dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL every 12 hours , not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 7 mg • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • dosing cup provided Drug Facts Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Inc . , Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 © RBI 2009 Inactive ingredients Inactive ingredients citric acid anhydrous , D & C Red # 33 , edetate disodium , ethylcellulose , FD & C Blue # 1 , flavor , high fructose corn syrup , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 3350 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sucrose , tragacanth , vegetable oil , xanthan gum Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
