Active Ingredient - Antiseptic Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose - Antiseptic Antiseptic Use - Antiseptic For Professional and hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings , Precautions and Directions - Antiseptic For External use only .
Keep out of Reach of Children .
Stop use if unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur , consult a physician immediately .
Do not uses in eyes or over large areas of the body .
Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive Ingredients - Antiseptic Purified Water Active Ingredient - Alcohol Prep Pad Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Use - Alcohol Prep Pad For preparation of the skin before injection Warnings , Precautions and Directions - Alcohol Prep Pad For External Use Only Flammable - Keep away from fire or flame Do Not Use - with electrocautery , in eyes Stop Use and Ask a Doctor if - Irritation or redness develop and persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Tear Open packet , unfold and use as and wipe injection site vigorously and discard .
Store at Room Temperature Active Ingredients - Insect Relief Pad Benzocaine 6 % SD alcohol 60 % Purpose - Insect Relief Pad Topical Anesthetic - Antiseptic Use - Insect Relief Pad For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , scrapes and insect bites Warnings , Precautions and Directions - Insect Relief Pad Clean intended area thoroughly with pad .
Discard after single use Warnings : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If this happens , rinse thoroughly with water If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use : In eyes , on broken skin , deep puncture wounds .
If unusual redness , swelling , irritation or other symptoms occur , consult a physician immediately .
Active Ingredients - Triple Antibiotic Ointment Bacitracin Zinc 400 units Neomycin Sulfate 5 mg ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B Sulfate 5000 units Purpose - Triple Antibiotic Ointment Triple Antibiotic Use - Triple Antibiotic Ointment To help prevent infection in : minor cuts ; scrapes and burns Warnings , Precautions and Directions - Triple Antibiotic Ointment For external use only .
Do not use : in eyes ; over large areas of the body ; If allergic to any of the ingredients ; for more than one week unless directed by a physician Stop use and consult a doctor : if the condition persists or gets worse ; a rash or other allergic reaction develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If ingested , contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions : clean affected area ; apply small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ; may be covered with a sterile bandage .
Adventure First Aid . 5 Tin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
