Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that perists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxatibe for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other durgs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These coud be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste .
adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years of age - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredients None Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution this packasge has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
Use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three tmes a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results Distributed by : DZA Brands , LLC Salisbury , NC 28147 Scarborough , ME 04074 For product questions or concerns contact us at 1 - 866 - 322 - 2439 Please include UPC code and code from the package Healthy Accents Magnesium sulfate USP Epsom Salt For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
DIRECTIONS : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or towelling for 30 minutes up to three times a day or use in a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by indifiduals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL healthy accents magnesium sulfate USP epsom salt saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises NET WT 1 LB ( 454 g ) 16 OZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
