Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safe and effective , and this labeling has not been approved by FDA .
Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Contains lidocaine HCl 3 % in a mild acidic vehicle .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INGREDIENTS : Each gram of Westminster Pharmaceuticals Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream contains Lidocaine HCl USP 3 % ( 30 mg ) .
Inactive ingredients include : Aluminum Sulfate , Calcium Acetate , Cetyl Alcohol , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Monostearate , Stearic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MECHANISM OF ACTION Westminster Pharmaceuticals Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream releases lidocaine from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
PHARMACOKINETICS Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation of the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjungation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexlidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentration of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid - glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS Indications For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes , insect bites , minor skin irritation , and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tuberculous or fungal lesions of skin vaccinia , varicella and acute herpes simplex and in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Westminster Pharmaceuticals Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Teratogenic Effects ; Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed for lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Dosage in pediatric patients would be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Westminster Pharmaceuticals Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream 1 oz ( 28 . 35 g ) tube - NDC 69367 - 202 - 01 3 oz ( 85 g ) tube - NDC 69367 - 202 - 85 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
Avoid excessive heat and cold , Protect from sunlight and freezing .
Manufactured for : Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC Nashville , TN 37217 Rev . 11 / 19 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 85 g Tube Carton NDC 69367 - 202 - 85 Rx Only Lidocaine HCl 3 % Cream Topical Anesthetic FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPTHALMIC USE .
Westminster Pharmaceuticals Net Wt 3 oz ( 85 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
