1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMULIN R U - 500 is a concentrated human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus requiring more than 200 units of insulin per day .
HUMULIN ® R U - 500 is a concentrated human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus requiring more than 200 units of insulin per day .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : The safety and efficacy of HUMULIN R U - 500 used in combination with other insulins has not been determined .
The safety and efficacy of HUMULIN R U - 500 delivered by continuous subcutaneous infusion has not been determined .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Limitation of Use The safety and efficacy of HUMULIN R U - 500 used in combination with other insulins has not been determined .
The safety and efficacy of HUMULIN R U - 500 delivered by continuous subcutaneous infusion has not been determined .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adhere to administration instructions to reduce the risk of dosing errors .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 ) • HUMULIN R U - 500 is available as a single - patient - use KwikPen or multiple - dose vial .
Patients using the vial must be prescribed the U - 500 insulin syringe to avoid medication errors .
( 2 . 1 ) • Individualize dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 based on metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer HUMULIN R U - 500 subcutaneously two or three times daily 30 minutes before a meal into the thigh , upper arm , abdomen , or buttocks .
Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Do NOT mix HUMULIN R U - 500 with other insulins .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do NOT administer HUMULIN R U - 500 intravenously ( 2 . 1 ) • Do NOT perform dose conversion when using the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen .
The dose window of the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen shows the number of units of HUMULIN R U - 500 to be injected .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do NOT transfer HUMULIN R U - 500 from the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen into any syringe .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do NOT perform dose conversion when using a U - 500 insulin syringe .
Use only a U - 500 insulin syringe with the HUMULIN R U - 500 vial .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Prescribe HUMULIN R U - 500 ONLY to patients who require more than 200 units of insulin per day .
• HUMULIN R U - 500 is available as a single - patient - use KwikPen or multiple - dose vial .
Patients using the vial must be prescribed the U - 500 insulin syringe to avoid medication errors .
• Instruct patients using the vial presentation to use only a U - 500 insulin syringe and on how to correctly draw the prescribed dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 into the U - 500 insulin syringe .
Confirm that the patient has understood these instructions and can correctly draw the prescribed dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 with their syringe [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before administration to confirm the correct insulin product is being used [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inspect HUMULIN R U - 500 visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
Only use HUMULIN R U - 500 if the solution appears clear and colorless .
• Instruct patients to inject HUMULIN R U - 500 subcutaneously into the thigh , upper arm , abdomen , or buttocks .
• Rotate injection sites within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Use HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen with caution in patients with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose .
• DO NOT administer HUMULIN R U - 500 intravenously .
• DO NOT dilute or mix HUMULIN R U - 500 with any other insulin products or solutions .
2 . 2 Dosing Instructions • Instruct patients to inject HUMULIN R U - 500 subcutaneously usually two or three times daily approximately 30 minutes before meals .
• Individualize and titrate the dosage of HUMULIN R U - 500 based on the patient ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results , and glycemic control goal .
• Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function , changes in medications or during acute illness to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Delivery of HUMULIN R U - 500 Using the HUMULIN R U - 500 Disposable Prefilled KwikPen Device • The HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen dials in 5 unit increments and delivers a maximum dose of 300 units per injection .
• DO NOT perform dose conversion when using the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen .
The dose window of the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen shows the number of units of HUMULIN R U - 500 to be injected and NO dose conversion is required .
• DO NOT transfer HUMULIN R U - 500 from the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen into any syringe for administration as overdose and severe hypoglycemia can occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 4 Delivery of HUMULIN R U - 500 Using the Vial Presentation and the U - 500 Insulin Syringe • DO NOT perform dose conversion when using a U - 500 insulin syringe .
The markings on the U - 500 insulin syringe show the number of units of HUMULIN R U - 500 to be injected .
• Each marking on the syringe represents 5 units of insulin .
• Prescribe patients a U - 500 insulin syringe to administer HUMULIN R U - 500 from the vial to avoid administration errors .
DO NOT use any other type of syringe [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 500 units / mL ( U - 500 ) clear , colorless solution available as : • 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen prefilled pen ( containing 1 , 500 units of insulin ) • 20 mL multiple - dose vial ( containing 10 , 000 units of insulin ) Injection : 500 units / mL ( U - 500 ) available as : ( 3 ) • 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN ® R U - 500 KwikPen ® prefilled pen ( containing 1 , 500 units of insulin ) • 20 mL multiple - dose vial ( containing 10 , 000 units of insulin ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMULIN R U - 500 is contraindicated : • During episodes of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • In patients who are hypersensitive to HUMULIN R U - 500 or any of its excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to HUMULIN R U - 500 or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperglycemia , Hypoglycemia or Death due to Dosing Errors with Vial Presentation : Can be life - threatening .
Overdose has occurred as a result of dispensing , prescribing or administration errors .
Attention to details at all levels is required to prevent these errors .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Never share a HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen or U - 500 insulin syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Increase monitoring with changes to : insulin dosage , co - administered glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; and in patients with renal impairment or hepatic impairment or hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
Discontinue HUMULIN R U - 500 , monitor , and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Hyperglycemia , Hypoglycemia or Death Due to Dosing Errors with the Vial Presentation Medication errors associated with the HUMULIN R U - 500 vial presentation resulting in patients experiencing hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia or death have been reported .
The majority of errors occurred due to errors in dispensing , prescribing or administration .
Attention to details at all levels may prevent these errors .
Dispensing Errors Instruct patients to always inspect insulin vials to confirm that the correct insulin is dispensed including the correct insulin brand and concentration .
The HUMULIN R U - 500 vial , which contains 20 mL , has a band of aqua coloring , a 500 units / mL concentration statement consisting of white lettering on a green rectangular background , and a green “ U - 500 ” statement prominently displayed next to the trade name .
Additionally , the vial has a green flip top and a red warning on the front panel describing the highly concentrated dose and a statement advising use with only U - 500 insulin syringes .
Prescribing Errors Dosing errors have occurred when the HUMULIN R U - 500 dose was administered with syringes other than a U - 500 insulin syringe .
Patients should be prescribed U - 500 syringes for use with the HUMULIN R U - 500 vials .
The prescribed dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 should always be expressed in units of insulin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Administration Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
Use only a U - 500 insulin syringe with HUMULIN R U - 500 to avoid administration errors .
Do not use any other type of syringe to administer Humulin R U - 500 .
Adhere to administration instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
Instruct the patient to inform hospital or emergency department staff of the dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 prescribed , in the event of a future hospitalization or visit to the emergency department .
5 . 2 Never Share a HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen or U - 500 Insulin Syringe Between Patients HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPens should never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMULIN R U - 500 vials should never share needles or U - 500 insulin syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 3 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , adjustments in concomitant oral anti - diabetic treatment may be needed .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening or cause death .
Severe hypoglycemia may develop as long as 18 to 24 hours after an injection of HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place the patient and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving , or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each patient and change over time in the same patient .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic neuropathy , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The timing of hypoglycemia usually reflects the time - action profile of the administered insulin formulation .
As with all insulin preparations , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMULIN R U - 500 may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
To minimize the risk of hypoglycemia do not administer HUMULIN R U - 500 intravenously or in an insulin pump or dilute or mix HUMULIN R U - 500 with any other insulin products or solutions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMULIN R U - 500 ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Use caution in patients who may be at risk for hypokalemia ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with HUMULIN R U - 500 include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , pruritus , and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Allergic Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , generalized skin reactions , rash , angioedema , bronchospasm , hypotension , and shock may occur with insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 and may be life threatening .
Lipodystrophy Long - term use of insulin , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , can cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated insulin injections .
Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy ( thickening of adipose tissue ) and lipoatrophy ( thinning of adipose tissue ) and may affect insulin absorption .
Rotate insulin injections sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Localized Cutaneous Amyloidosis Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
Injection Site Reactions Patients taking HUMULIN R U - 500 may experience injection site reactions , including injection site hematoma , pain , hemorrhage , erythema , nodules , swelling , discoloration , pruritus , warmth , and injection site mass .
Weight Gain Weight gain can occur with insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin .
Peripheral Edema Insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , insulin administration may cause anti - insulin antibodies to form .
The presence of antibodies that affect clinical efficacy may necessitate dose adjustments to correct for tendencies toward hyper - or hypoglycemia .
The incidence of antibody formation with HUMULIN R U - 500 is unknown .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with HUMULIN R U - 500 Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R U - 500 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN R U 500 Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R U - 500 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMULIN R U 500 Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R U - 500 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine and reserpine Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMULIN R U - 500 is co - administered with these drugs .
• Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 ) • Antiadrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies were not performed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 % .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from retrospective studies , open - label , randomized , parallel studies and meta - analyses over decades have not established an association with human insulin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
All available studies have methodological limitations , including lack of blinding , unclear methods or randomization , and small sample size .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available data from published literature suggests that exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN R U - 500 , are transferred into human milk .
There are no adverse reactions reported in breastfed infants in the literature .
There are no data on the effects of exogenous human insulin products , including HUMULIN R U - 500 on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for HUMULIN R U - 500 and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMULIN R U - 500 or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of HUMULIN R U - 500 in pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus requiring more than 200 units of insulin per day to improve glycemic control have been established .
Use of HUMULIN R U - 500 for this indication is supported by evidence from studies with other insulin human in pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and from studies in adults with diabetes mellitus .
Standard precautions as applied to use of HUMULIN R U - 500 in adults are appropriate for use in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HUMULIN R U - 500 has not been studied .
Caution should be exercised when HUMULIN R U - 500 is administered to geriatric patients .
In elderly patients with diabetes , the initial dosing , dose increments , and maintenance dosage should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemia .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Frequent glucose monitoring and insulin dose reduction may be required in patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Frequent glucose monitoring and insulin dose reduction may be required in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with a glucagon product for emergency use or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION Insulin human is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 with a molecular weight of 5 . 808 kDa .
HUMULIN R U - 500 ( insulin human ) injection is a sterile , aqueous , and colorless solution for subcutaneous use .
HUMULIN R U - 500 contains 500 units of insulin human in each milliliter .
Each milliliter of HUMULIN R U - 500 also contains glycerin ( 16 mg ) , metacresol ( 2 . 5 mg ) , zinc oxide to supplement the endogenous zinc to obtain a total zinc content of 0 . 017 mg / 100 units , and Water for Injection .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Regulation of glucose metabolism is the primary activity of insulins , including HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a euglycemic clamp study of 24 healthy obese subjects ( BMI = 30 - 39 kg / m2 ) , single doses of HUMULIN R U - 500 at 50 units ( 0 . 4 - 0 . 6 unit / kg ) and 100 units ( 0 . 8 - 1 . 3 unit / kg ) resulted in a mean time of onset of action of less than 15 minutes at both doses and a mean duration of action of 21 hours ( range 13 - 24 hours ) .
The time action characteristics reflect both prandial and basal activity , consistent with clinical experience .
This effect has been attributed to the high concentration of the preparation .
Figure 1 should be considered a representative example since the time course of action of insulin may vary in different individuals or within the same individual .
The rate of insulin absorption and consequently the onset of activity is known to be affected by the site of injection , exercise , and other variables [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption — In a euglycemic clamp study of 24 healthy obese subjects , the median peak insulin level occurred between 4 hours ( 50 unit dose ) and 8 hours ( 100 unit dose ) with a range of 0 . 5 - 8 hours .
Metabolism — The uptake and degradation of insulin occurs predominantly in liver , kidney , muscle , and adipocytes , with the liver being the major organ involved in the clearance of insulin .
Elimination — Mean apparent half - life after subcutaneous administration of single doses of 50 units and 100 units to healthy obese subjects ( N ≥ 21 ) was approximately 4 . 5 hours ( range = 1 . 9 - 10 hours ) for HUMULIN R U - 500 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and fertility studies were not performed with HUMULIN R U - 500 in animals .
Biosynthetic human insulin was not genotoxic in the in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay and the in vitro gradient plate and unscheduled DNA synthesis assays .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied HUMULIN R U - 500 ( 500 units / mL ) injection is available in a clear , colorless solution as : 2 x 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen NDC 0002 - 8824 - 27 20 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 8501 - 01 The HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen dials in 5 unit increments .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use .
Protect from heat and light .
Do not freeze .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
Do not shake the vial .
See Table 2 below for storage conditions .
Table 2 : Storage Conditions for HUMILIN R U - 500 Vials and Pens a When stored at room temperature , HUMULIN R U - 500 vial can only be used for a total of 40 days , including both not in - use ( unopened ) and in - use ( opened ) storage time .
b When stored at room temperature , HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen can only be used for a total of 28 days , including both not in - use ( unopened ) and in - use ( opened ) storage time .
Not In - use ( Unopened ) In - use ( Opened ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) Room Temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) 20 mL multiple - dose viala 40 days Until expiration date 40 days 40 days 3 mL single - patient - use HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPenb 28 days Until expiration date 28 days Do not refrigerate .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling .
Patients should be counseled that HUMULIN R U - 500 is a 5 - times concentrated insulin product .
Extreme caution must be observed in the measurement of dosage because inadvertent overdose may result in serious adverse reaction or life - threatening hypoglycemia .
Accidental mix - ups between insulin products have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between HUMULIN R U - 500 and other insulins , patients should be instructed to always check the insulin label before each injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If using the HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen , patients should be counseled to dial and dose the prescribed number of units of insulin ( no dose conversion is required ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
When using HUMULIN R U - 500 from a vial , patients should be counseled to use only a U - 500 insulin syringe and be informed that no dose conversion is required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Patients should be instructed on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of HUMULIN R U - 500 therapy .
Patients must be instructed on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision .
Refer patients to the HUMULIN R U - 500 Patient Information Leaflet for additional information [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Do not dilute or mix HUMULIN R U - 500 with any other insulin products or solutions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Literature Revised : June 2022 Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1997 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LINR500 - 0009 - USPI - 20220627 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : June 2022 LINR500 - 0006 - PPI - 20220627 Patient Information Humulin ® ( HU - mu - lin ) R U - 500 ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous use U - 500 ( 500 units / mL ) Do not share your Humulin R U - 500 KwikPen or U - 500 insulin syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is Humulin R U - 500 ?
• Humulin R U - 500 is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus who need more than 200 units of insulin in a day .
• Humulin R U - 500 contains 5 times as much insulin ( 500 units / mL ) in 1 mL as Humulin R U - 100 ( 100 units / mL ) .
• It is not known if Humulin R U - 500 is safe and effective when used in combination with other insulins .
• It is not known if Humulin R U - 500 is safe and effective when given by continuous subcutaneous infusion .
Who should not take Humulin R U - 500 ?
Do not take Humulin R U - 500 if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to human insulin or any of the ingredients in Humulin R U - 500 .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Humulin R U - 500 .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using Humulin R U - 500 ?
Before using Humulin R U - 500 , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including , if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Humulin R U - 500 .
• are pregnant , planning to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breastfeed .
Humulin R U - 500 may pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Before you start using Humulin R U - 500 , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use Humulin R U - 500 ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that come with your Humulin R U - 500 .
• Use Humulin R U - 500 exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much Humulin R U - 500 to use and when to use it .
• Know the dose of Humulin R U - 500 you use .
Do not change the dose of Humulin R U - 500 you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are using the correct insulin .
• When using the Humulin R U - 500 KwikPen : The Humulin R U - 500 KwikPen is specially made to dial and deliver doses of Humulin R U - 500 insulin .
Do not use any syringe to remove Humulin R U - 500 from your Humulin R U - 500 KwikPen .
The markings on certain syringes will not measure your dose correctly .
A severe overdose can happen , causing low blood sugar , which may put your life in danger .
• When using the Humulin R U - 500 vial : There is a special U - 500 insulin syringe to measure Humulin R U - 500 .
Use only a U - 500 insulin syringe to draw up and inject your Humulin R U - 500 .
If you do not use the right syringe type , you may take the wrong dose of Humulin R U - 500 .
This can cause you to have too low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) or too high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to draw up Humulin R U - 500 .
• Use Humulin R U - 500 30 minutes before eating a meal .
• Inject Humulin R U - 500 under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your upper legs ( thighs ) , upper arms , buttocks or stomach area ( abdomen ) .
Do not use Humulin R U - 500 in an insulin pump or inject Humulin R U - 500 into your vein ( intravenously ) .
• Do not mix Humulin R U - 500 in the KwikPen or vial with any other type of insulin or liquid medicine .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• - Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• - Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• - Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep Humulin R U - 500 and all medicines out of reach of children .
Your dose of Humulin R U - 500 may need to change because of : • change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while using Humulin R U - 500 ?
While using Humulin R U - 500 do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how Humulin R U - 500 affects you .
• drink alcohol or use over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of Humulin R U - 500 ?
Humulin R U - 500 may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • - dizziness or lightheadedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability or mood changes , hunger .
• - your healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon product for emergency use so that others can give you an injection if your blood sugar becomes too low ( hypoglycemic ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • - a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Humulin R U - 500 may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Humulin R U - 500 .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Humulin R U - 500 .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • - shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and Humulin R U - 500 may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • severe hypoglycemia needing hospitalization or emergency room care , and be sure to tell the hospital staff the units of Humulin R U - 500 that your healthcare provider has prescribed for you .
• trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of Humulin R U - 500 include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions including reactions at your injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , itching , and rash .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Humulin R U - 500 .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General Information about the safe and effective use of Humulin R U - 500 Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Humulin R U - 500 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Humulin R U - 500 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Humulin R U - 500 .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Humulin R U - 500 that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information go to www . humulin . com or call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 .
What are the ingredients in Humulin R U - 500 ?
Active ingredient : insulin human Inactive ingredients : glycerin , metacresol , zinc oxide , and Water for Injection as inactive ingredients .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust the pH . Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 For more information about Humulin R U - 500 go to www . humulin . com .
Copyright © 2015 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
Instructions for Use Humulin ® R U - 500 ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous use 20 mL multiple - dose vial ( 500 units / mL ) Please read these instructions before use .
Warnings • For your safety , always inject Humulin ® R U - 500 insulin with a U - 500 syringe .
• If you use another kind of syringe , you may get a dangerous overdose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] U - 500 syringe – for single injection only The U - 500 syringe has a green U - 500 symbol and a green Needle Shield on the syringe .
Important Information • Humulin R U - 500 is a concentrated insulin .
• Know your dose .
Your health care provider will tell you the number of insulin units that you should take .
• Always inject Humulin R U - 500 insulin with a U - 500 syringe .
Other syringes will not measure your dose correctly .
• If you use the wrong syringe , you can give yourself a severe overdose .
This can cause very low blood sugar , which may put your life in danger .
For example , using a U - 100 syringe can give you a 5 times overdose .
• If you do not have a U - 500 syringe , you should contact your health care provider or pharmacist .
Additional Safety Information • Each line on the U - 500 syringe measures 5 units of U - 500 insulin .
• You can give from 5 to 250 units in one injection .
• If your dose is more than 250 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• Make sure you know how to draw up your dose with a U - 500 syringe .
If you need help , call your health care provider .
• Do not reuse your U - 500 syringe .
• Do not share your U - 500 syringes with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
• Do not mix Humulin R U - 500 with other insulins in the same syringe .
• You can get more instructions by calling Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
Supplies • Humulin R U - 500 multiple - dose vial • U - 500 Syringe ( BD [ Becton , Dickinson and Company ] syringes recommended ) • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 sharps container [ MULTIMEDIA ] Before You Start • Check your vial .
Make sure it says Humulin R U - 500 .
• Check the expiration date on the vial .
Do not use it if it is expired .
Throw away the opened vial after 40 days , even if there is still insulin left in the vial .
• See if the insulin in the vial is clear .
Do not use if it is thick , cloudy , or colored or has solid particles .
• Make sure you have a new U - 500 Syringe .
Check for the green U - 500 symbol and green Needle Shield .
• Check your supply .
Make sure you have enough Humulin R U - 500 insulin and U - 500 syringes for several injections .
Always reorder before you run out .
• Check with your health care provider if you have any questions .
Use only a U - 500 syringe to inject Humulin R U - 500 insulin Prepare • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Always use a new syringe for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Step 1 : Find the line on the U - 500 syringe that matches your prescribed dose .
This is your Dose Line .
Each line is 5 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : Arrow shows Dose Line at 85 units ) Step 2 : If you are using a new vial , pull off the plastic Protective Cap .
Do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Hold the syringe with the Needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger Rod until the Plunger Tip reaches your Dose Line .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 85 units shown ) Step 5 : Push the Needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Push the Plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the Plunger down until the Plunger Tip is past your Dose Line .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 85 units Plunger is shown at 100 units ) If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently a few times .
This lets the air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the Plunger Tip reaches your Dose Line .
Check the syringe to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 85 units shown ) Step 9 : Pull the syringe out of the vial ' s Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inject • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Step 10 : Choose your injection site .
Humulin R U - 500 is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) .
You may inject into your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs , or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : Insert the Needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
Then keep the Needle in your skin for at least 5 seconds , to make sure you have injected all of your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Pull the Needle out of your skin .
• You may see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin .
This is normal .
Press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not put the Needle Shield back on the Needle , because you may get a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposal of used syringes • Put your used syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling • Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Do not shake the vial .
Unopened vials : • Store unopened vials in the refrigerator .
• Do not freeze Humulin R U - 500 .
If it has been frozen , do not use it .
• If unopened vials have been stored in the refrigerator , you may use them until the expiration date .
After the vial has been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature ( up to 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) for up to 40 days .
• Throw away the opened vial after 40 days , even if there is still insulin left in the vial .
General Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Always use a U - 500 syringe to inject Humulin R U - 500 insulin .
• Never use other syringes .
The lines and numbers on other syringes will not measure your dose correctly .
• You can give yourself the wrong dose if you use any other syringe , such as a U - 100 , tuberculin or allergy syringe .
For example , a U - 100 syringe is made to measure U - 100 insulin .
If you use a U - 100 Syringe for your U - 500 dose , you can give yourself a 5 times overdose .
• Do not make any changes to your dose or the type of insulin you use unless you are told to do so by your health care provider .
• Keep your vials and syringes out of the sight and reach of children .
Frequently Asked Questions • Why do I need to use a U - 500 syringe ?
Humulin R U - 500 insulin and a U - 500 syringe work together to help you inject the correct dose .
Using any other syringe may result in dosing mistakes .
This may put your life in danger .
• Do I have to convert my Humulin R U - 500 insulin dose when I use the U - 500 syringe ?
No , you do not have to convert your dose .
Your health care provider should tell you how much Humulin R U - 500 insulin to take in units and when to take it .
Your health care provider should show you how to draw up your dose using the U - 500 syringe .
• What should I do if I run out of U - 500 syringes ?
If you run out of U - 500 syringes , do not use any other syringe to inject Humulin R U - 500 insulin .
Call your health care provider or pharmacist for help .
You may also call Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
Where to get more information and help • If you have any questions about Humulin R U - 500 insulin or U - 500 syringes , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) .
• You can also call your health care provider or pharmacist .
• For more information on Humulin R U - 500 insulin , go to www . humulin . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch the humulin . com website These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humulin ® is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 1996 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
Literature revised : June 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] LINR500VL - 0004 - IFU - 20220627 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMULIN ® R U - 500 KwikPen ® ( insulin human ) injection , for subcutaneous use 3 mL single - patient - use pen ( 500 units / mL , U - 500 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : • Know your dose of HUMULIN R U - 500 insulin .
The Pen delivers your dose in insulin units .
Insulin units may not be the same as syringe markings .
Ask your health care provider what your dose should be for your Pen .
• Your HUMULIN ® R U - 500 KwikPen ® ( Pen ) works differently from other pens .
It dials 5 insulin units with each click .
Do not count clicks of the dose knob to select your dose .
You may get too much insulin or you may not get enough insulin .
• HUMULIN R U - 500 is a concentrated insulin .
Do not transfer HUMULIN R U - 500 insulin from your Pen into a syringe .
A severe overdose can happen , causing very low blood sugar , which may put your life in danger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMULIN R U - 500 and each time you get another Pen .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMULIN R U - 500 Pen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 1500 units of HUMULIN R .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 5 units of insulin .
You can give from 5 to 300 units in a single injection .
The plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 1500 units in the Pen .
Inject HUMULIN R U - 500 only with your Pen .
Do not transfer insulin from your Pen to a syringe .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen • Pen color : Aqua • Dose Knob : Aqua with raised ridges on the end • Label : HUMULIN R U - 500 and 500 units / mL in a green box [ MULTIMEDIA ] Supplies needed to give your injection • HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 28 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new Needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked Needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• – Do not remove the KwikPen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
HUMULIN R U - 500 should look clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy , colored , or has particles or clumps in it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 5 : • To prime your pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 5 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• – If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 5 to 7 , no more than 8 times .
• – If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 5 to 7 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose This Pen has been made to deliver the dose in insulin units that is shown in the Dose Window .
Ask your healthcare provider what your dose should be for this Pen .
• You can give from 5 to 300 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 300 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• – If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• – You must use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 8 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• – The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
Each click of the Dose Knob dials 5 insulin units at a time .
• – Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• – The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• – The even numbers ( for example , 80 ) are printed on the dial .
• – The odd numbers ( for example , 125 ) are shown as lines between the even numbers .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Example : 80 units shown in Dose Window [ MULTIMEDIA ] Example : 125 units shown in Dose Window • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If your dose is more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • – inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • – get a new Pen and inject your full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you cannot inject .
Do not transfer this to a syringe .
Severe overdose can happen .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 9 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMULIN is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
Step 11 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
• – A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• – If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• – If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• – If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat your injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 12 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used Needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose Needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • – made of a heavy - duty plastic , • – can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • – upright and stable during use , • – leak - resistant , and • – properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze HUMULIN R U - 500 .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the Pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
What you should know if you are switching to HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen Ask your healthcare provider what your dose should be for your Pen in insulin units .
Always follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions for dosing .
If you are : It is important to know : Switching from HUMULIN R U - 500 vial ( and syringe ) Your Pen may measure your dose differently .
The markings in the Dose Window may not be the same as the markings on the syringe you used in the past .
If you were using the U - 500 syringe to administer your dose , the markings on the syringe may be the same as the markings in the Pen Dose Window .
Ask your healthcare provider what dose in insulin units you should dial on your Pen .
Switching from another type of insulin device or pen .
The HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen is different from other pens .
It dials 5 insulin units with each click of the Dose Knob .
Do not select your dose by counting clicks .
You may get too much insulin or you may not get enough insulin .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and Needles out of the sight and reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you cannot remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If it is hard to push the Dose Knob : • – Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• – Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• – You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen and insulin , go to www . humulin . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humulin . com These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMULIN ® and HUMULIN ® KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Manufactured by : Eli Lilly and Company Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA US License Number 1891 Copyright © 2015 , 2022 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
Document revision date : June 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] LINR500KP - 0005 - IFU - 20220627 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] VIAL PACKAGE CARTON – HUMULIN R U - 500 Vial 20 mL 1 ct NDC 0002 - 8501 - 01 20 mL Humulin ® R U - 500 ( insulin human ) injection 10 , 000 units per 20 mL 500 units per mL Rx only 500 units / mL Warning - Highly Concentrated IMPORTANT : Use only with a U - 500 syringe .
20 mL multiple - dose vial For subcutaneous use only www . humulin . com Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] KWIKPEN PACKAGE CARTON – HUMULIN R U - 500 KwikPen 3 mL ( 500 Units per mL ) Dispense in this sealed carton NDC 0002 - 8824 - 27 Humulin ® R U - 500 KwikPen ® ( insulin human ) injection For Single Patient Use Only prefilled insulin delivery device 500 units / mL 500 units per mL 2 x 3 mL prefilled pens Rx only For subcutaneous use only .
Read Humulin ® R U - 500 KwikPen ® Instructions for Use .
NEEDLES NOT INCLUDED This device is recommended for use with Becton , Dickinson and Company ' s insulin pen needles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] DO NOT TRANSFER TO A SYRINGE SEVERE OVERDOSE CAN RESULT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
