Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 12 / 2020 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 12 / 2020 Contraindications ( 4 ) 12 / 2020 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) 12 / 2020 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) Removal 12 / 2020 WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin - associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio , and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the full prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue JANUMET XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio , and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age ≥ 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these highrisk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue JANUMET XR and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE JANUMET ® XR is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
JANUMET XR is a combination of sitagliptin , a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor , and metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) , a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Not for the treatment of type 1 diabetes .
( 1 ) • Has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
( 1 , 5 . 2 ) Limitations of Use JANUMET XR should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
JANUMET XR has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using JANUMET XR .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) . ]
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take JANUMET XR orally once daily with a meal .
Patients taking two JANUMET XR tablets should take the tablets together .
( 2 . 1 ) • Individualize the dosage of JANUMET XR on the basis of the patient ’ s current regimen , effectiveness , and tolerability .
( 2 . 1 ) • The maximum recommended daily dose is 100 mg of sitagliptin and 2000 mg of metformin HCl extended - release .
( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended starting dose in patients not currently treated with metformin is 100 mg sitagliptin and 1000 mg metformin HCl once daily , with gradual dose escalation recommended to reduce the gastrointestinal effects due to metformin .
( 2 . 1 ) • The starting dose in patients already treated with metformin should provide sitagliptin dosed as 100 mg and the dose of metformin already being taken once daily .
For patients taking metformin HCl 850 mg twice daily or 1000 mg twice daily , the recommended starting dose of JANUMET XR is two 50 mg sitagliptin and 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release tablets once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Maintain the same total daily dose of sitagliptin and metformin when changing between JANUMET and JANUMET XR .
( 2 . 1 ) • Prior to initiation , assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) ( 2 . 2 ) • Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Discontinue if eGFR later falls below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 – 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Assess risk / benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Limit dose of sitagliptin to 50 mg once daily if eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• JANUMET XR may need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing • Take JANUMET XR orally once daily with a meal .
Patients taking two JANUMET XR tablets should take the two tablets together once daily .
• Individualize the dosage of JANUMET XR on the basis of the patient ’ s current regimen , effectiveness , and tolerability .
• The maximum recommended daily dose is 100 mg of sitagliptin and 2000 mg of metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) extended - release .
• The recommended starting dose in patients not currently treated with metformin is 100 mg sitagliptin and 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release once daily , with gradual dose escalation recommended to reduce gastrointestinal side effects associated with metformin .
• The starting dose in patients already treated with metformin should provide 100 mg sitagliptin and the previously prescribed dose of metformin .
• For patients taking metformin HCl immediate - release 850 mg twice daily or 1000 mg twice daily , the recommended starting dose of JANUMET XR is two 50 mg sitagliptin and 1000 mg metformin HCl extended - release tablets taken together once daily .
• Maintain the same total daily dose of sitagliptin and metformin when changing between JANUMET ( sitagliptin and metformin HCl immediate - release ) and JANUMET XR .
• Do not split , crush or chew JANUMET XR tablets .
2 . 2 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of JANUMET XR and periodically thereafter .
• JANUMET XR is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Discontinue JANUMET XR if the patient ' s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Initiation of JANUMET XR in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 is not recommended .
• In patients taking JANUMET XR whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy and limit dose of the sitagliptin component to 50 mg once daily .
2 . 3 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue JANUMET XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart JANUMET XR if renal function is stable [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : • sitagliptin 100 mg and metformin HCl 1000 mg extended - release tablets are blue , bi - convex oval , film - coated tablets with “ 81 ” debossed on one side .
• sitagliptin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg extended - release tablets are light blue , bi - convex oval , film - coated tablets with “ 78 ” debossed on one side .
• sitagliptin 50 mg and metformin HCl 1000 mg extended - release tablets are light green , bi - convex oval , film - coated tablets with “ 80 ” debossed on one side .
JANUMET XR Tablets : • sitagliptin 100 mg and metformin HCl 1000 mg extended - release • sitagliptin 50 mg and metformin HCl 500 mg extended - release • sitagliptin 50 mg and metformin HCl 1000 mg extended - release ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS JANUMET XR is contraindicated in patients with : • Severe renal impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis .
• History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction to JANUMET XR , sitagliptin , or metformin such as anaphylaxis or angioedema .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ; Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) . ]
• Severe renal impairment : eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
( 4 ) • Metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis .
( 4 ) • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or angioedema ) to JANUMET XR , sitagliptin , or metformin .
( 5 . 7 , 6 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Lactic Acidosis : See boxed warning .
( 5 . 1 ) • Pancreatitis : There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal and non - fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis in patients treated with sitagliptin .
If pancreatitis is suspected , promptly discontinue JANUMET XR .
( 5 . 2 ) • Heart Failure : Has been observed with two other members of the DPP - 4 inhibitor class .
Consider risks and benefits of JANUMET XR in patients who have known risk factors for heart failure .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms .
( 5 . 3 ) • Acute Renal Failure : Has been reported postmarketing sometimes requiring dialysis .
Before initiating JANUMET XR and at least annually thereafter , assess renal function .
( 5 . 4 ) • Vitamin B12 Deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters annually and vitamin B12 at 2 to 3 year intervals and manage any abnormalities .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues : Increased risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue .
A lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : There have been postmarketing reports of serious allergic and hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with sitagliptin , such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Promptly stop JANUMET XR , assess for other potential causes , institute appropriate monitoring and treatment .
( 5 . 7 ) • Severe and Disabling Arthralgia : Has been reported in patients taking DPP - 4 inhibitors .
Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate .
( 5 . 8 ) • Bullous Pemphigoid : There have been postmarketing reports requiring hospitalization in patients taking DPP - 4 inhibitors .
Tell patients to report development of blisters or erosions .
If bullous pemphigoid is suspected , discontinue JANUMET XR .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels were generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of JANUMET XR .
In JANUMET XR - treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin is dialyzable , with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis , and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue JANUMET XR and report these symptoms to their health care provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : Renal Impairment : The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ' s renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : • Before initiating JANUMET XR , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
• JANUMET XR is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
Discontinue JANUMET XR if the patient ' s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Initiation of JANUMET XR is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 and 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• In patients taking JANUMET XR whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
• Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking JANUMET XR .
In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of JANUMET XR with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance or increase metformin accumulation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Therefore , consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
Age 65 or Greater The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ' s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Radiological Studies with Contrast Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop JANUMET XR at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart JANUMET XR if renal function is stable .
Surgery and Other Procedures Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension and renal impairment .
JANUMET XR should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
Hypoxic States Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur , discontinue JANUMET XR .
Excessive Alcohol Intake Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism and this may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving JANUMET XR .
Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment have developed with cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of JANUMET XR in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Pancreatitis There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis , including fatal and non - fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis , in patients taking sitagliptin with or without metformin .
After initiation of JANUMET XR , patients should be observed carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis .
If pancreatitis is suspected , JANUMET XR should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated .
It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using JANUMET XR .
5 . 3 Heart Failure An association between dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor treatment and heart failure has been observed in cardiovascular outcomes trials for two other members of the DPP - 4 inhibitor class .
These trials evaluated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
Consider the risks and benefits of JANUMET XR prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure , such as those with a prior history of heart failure and a history of renal impairment , and observe these patients for signs and symptoms of heart failure during therapy .
Advise patients of the characteristic symptoms of heart failure and to immediately report such symptoms .
If heart failure develops , evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of JANUMET XR .
5 . 4 Acute Renal Failure There have been postmarketing reports of worsening renal function in patients taking sitagliptin with or without metformin , including acute renal failure , sometimes requiring dialysis .
Before initiation of therapy with JANUMET XR and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , particularly in elderly patients , renal function should be assessed more frequently and JANUMET XR discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
JANUMET XR is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Vitamin B12 Deficiency In controlled clinical trials of metformin of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , may be associated with anemia but appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters on an annual basis and vitamin B12 measurements at 2 - to 3 - year intervals in patients on JANUMET XR and manage any abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues JANUMET XR may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
A lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with JANUMET XR [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with sitagliptin , one of the components of JANUMET XR .
These reactions include anaphylaxis , angioedema , and exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Onset of these reactions occurred within the first 3 months after initiation of treatment with sitagliptin , with some reports occurring after the first dose .
If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected , discontinue JANUMET XR , assess for other potential causes for the event , and institute alternative treatment for diabetes .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) . ]
Use caution in a patient with a history of angioedema to another DPP - 4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with JANUMET XR .
5 . 8 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP - 4 inhibitors .
The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years .
Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication .
A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP - 4 inhibitor .
Consider DPP - 4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate .
5 . 9 Bullous Pemphigoid Postmarketing cases of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with DPP - 4 inhibitor use .
In reported cases , patients typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of the DPP - 4 inhibitor .
Tell patients to report development of blisters or erosions while receiving JANUMET XR .
If bullous pemphigoid is suspected , JANUMET XR should be discontinued and referral to a dermatologist should be considered for diagnosis and appropriate treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Lactic Acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Heart Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Acute Renal Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Vitamin B12 Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Severe and Disabling Arthralgia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Bullous Pemphigoid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • The most common adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5 % of patients simultaneously started on sitagliptin and metformin and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo were diarrhea , upper respiratory tract infection , and headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , at 1 - 877 - 888 - 4231 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release Coadministration in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise Table 1 summarizes the most common ( ≥ 5 % of patients ) adverse reactions reported ( regardless of investigator assessment of causality ) in a 24 - week placebo - controlled factorial study in which sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release were coadministered to patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on diet and exercise .
Table 1 : Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release Coadministered to Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise : Adverse Reactions Reported ( Regardless of Investigator Assessment of Causality ) in ≥ 5 % of Patients Receiving Combination Therapy ( and Greater than in Patients Receiving Placebo ) [ 1 ] Number of Patients ( % ) Placebo Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg or 1000 mg twice daily [ 2 ] Sitagliptin 50 mg twice daily + Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg or 1000 mg twice daily null N = 176 N = 179 N = 364 null N = 372 null Diarrhea 7 ( 4 . 0 ) 5 ( 2 . 8 ) 28 ( 7 . 7 ) 28 ( 7 . 5 ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 9 ( 5 . 1 ) 8 ( 4 . 5 ) 19 ( 5 . 2 ) 23 ( 6 . 2 ) Headache 5 ( 2 . 8 ) 2 ( 1 . 1 ) 14 ( 3 . 8 ) 22 ( 5 . 9 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population .
[ 2 ] Data pooled for the patients given the lower and higher doses of metformin .
Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release Alone In a 24 - week placebo - controlled trial of sitagliptin 100 mg administered once daily added to a twice daily metformin immediate - release regimen , there were no adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients and more commonly than in patients given placebo .
Discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse reactions was similar to the placebo treatment group ( sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release , 1 . 9 % ; placebo and metformin immediate - release , 2 . 5 % ) .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidences of pre - selected gastrointestinal adverse experiences in patients treated with sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release were similar to those reported for patients treated with metformin immediate - release alone .
See Table 2 .
Table 2 : Pre - selected Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ( Regardless of Investigator Assessment of Causality ) Reported in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Receiving Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release Number of Patients ( % ) Study of Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise Study of Sitagliptin Add - on in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release Alone Placebo Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg or 1000 mg twice daily [ 1 ] Sitagliptin 50 mg bid + Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg or 1000 mg twice daily null Placebo and Metformin HCL Immediate - Release ≥ 1500 mg daily Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily and Metformin HCl Immediate - Release ≥ 1500 mg daily N = 176 N = 179 N = 364 N = 372 N = 237 N = 464 Diarrhea 7 ( 4 . 0 ) 5 ( 2 . 8 ) 28 ( 7 . 7 ) 28 ( 7 . 5 ) 6 ( 2 . 5 ) 11 ( 2 . 4 ) Nausea 2 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 ( 1 . 1 ) 20 ( 5 . 5 ) 18 ( 4 . 8 ) 2 ( 0 . 8 ) 6 ( 1 . 3 ) Vomiting 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 2 ( 0 . 5 ) 8 ( 2 . 2 ) 2 ( 0 . 8 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Abdominal Pain [ 2 ] 4 ( 2 . 3 ) 6 ( 3 . 4 ) 14 ( 3 . 8 ) 11 ( 3 . 0 ) 9 ( 3 . 8 ) 10 ( 2 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Data pooled for the patients given the lower and higher doses of metformin .
[ 2 ] Abdominal discomfort was included in the analysis of abdominal pain in the study of initial therapy .
Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Immediate - Release and Glimepiride In a 24 - week placebo - controlled study of sitagliptin 100 mg as add - on therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin immediate - release and glimepiride ( sitagliptin , N = 116 ; placebo , N = 113 ) , the adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with sitagliptin and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo were : hypoglycemia ( Table 3 ) and headache ( 6 . 9 % , 2 . 7 % ) .
Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Immediate - Release and Rosiglitazone In a placebo - controlled study of sitagliptin 100 mg as add - on therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin immediate - release and rosiglitazone ( sitagliptin , N = 181 ; placebo , N = 97 ) , the adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality through Week 18 in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with sitagliptin and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo were : upper respiratory tract infection ( sitagliptin , 5 . 5 % ; placebo , 5 . 2 % ) and nasopharyngitis ( 6 . 1 % , 4 . 1 % ) .
Through Week 54 , the adverse reactions reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with sitagliptin and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo were : upper respiratory tract infection ( sitagliptin , 15 . 5 % ; placebo , 6 . 2 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 11 . 0 % , 9 . 3 % ) , peripheral edema ( 8 . 3 % , 5 . 2 % ) , and headache ( 5 . 5 % , 4 . 1 % ) .
Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Immediate - Release and Insulin In a 24 - week placebo - controlled study of sitagliptin 100 mg as add - on therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin immediate - release and insulin ( sitagliptin , N = 229 ; placebo , N = 233 ) , the only adverse reaction reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with sitagliptin and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo was hypoglycemia ( Table 3 ) .
Hypoglycemia In the above studies ( N = 5 ) , adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were based on all reports of symptomatic hypoglycemia ; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required although most ( 77 % ) reports of hypoglycemia were accompanied by a blood glucose measurement ≤ 70 mg / dL .
When the combination of sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release was coadministered with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , the percentage of patients reporting at least one adverse reaction of hypoglycemia was higher than that observed with placebo and metformin immediate - release coadministered with a sulfonylurea or with insulin ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Incidence and Rate of Hypoglycemia [ 1 ] ( Regardless of Investigator Assessment of Causality ) in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Studies of Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Immediate - Release Coadministered with Glimepiride or InsulinAdd - On to Glimepiride + Metformin Immediate - Release ( 24 weeks ) Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release + Glimepiride Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release + Glimepiride N = 116 N = 113 Overall ( % ) 19 ( 16 . 4 ) 1 ( 0 . 9 ) Rate ( episodes / patient - year ) [ 2 ] 0 . 82 0 . 02 Severe ( % ) [ 3 ] 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Add - On to Insulin + Metformin Immediate - Release ( 24 weeks ) Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release + Insulin Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release + Insulin N = 229 N = 233 Overall ( % ) 35 ( 15 . 3 ) 19 ( 8 . 2 ) Rate ( episodes / patient - year ) null 0 . 98 0 . 61 Severe ( % ) null 1 ( 0 . 4 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) [ 1 ] Adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were based on all reports of symptomatic hypoglycemia ; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required : Intent - to - treat population .
[ 2 ] Based on total number of events ( i . e . , a single patient may have had multiple events ) .
[ 3 ] Severe events of hypoglycemia were defined as those events requiring medical assistance or exhibiting depressed level / loss of consciousness or seizure .
The overall incidence of reported adverse reactions of hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on diet and exercise was 0 . 6 % in patients given placebo , 0 . 6 % in patients given sitagliptin alone , 0 . 8 % in patients given metformin immediate - release alone , and 1 . 6 % in patients given sitagliptin in combination with metformin immediate - release .
In patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin immediate - release alone , the overall incidence of adverse reactions of hypoglycemia was 1 . 3 % in patients given add - on sitagliptin and 2 . 1 % in patients given add - on placebo .
In the study of sitagliptin and add - on combination therapy with metformin immediate - release and rosiglitazone , the overall incidence of hypoglycemia was 2 . 2 % in patients given add - on sitagliptin and 0 . 0 % in patients given add - on placebo through Week 18 .
Through Week 54 , the overall incidence of hypoglycemia was 3 . 9 % in patients given add - on sitagliptin and 1 . 0 % in patients given add - on placebo .
In an additional 30 - week placebo - controlled study of patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin comparing the maintenance of sitagliptin 100 mg versus withdrawal of sitagliptin when initiating basal insulin therapy , the event rate and incidence of documented symptomatic hypoglycemia ( blood glucose measurement ≤ 70 mg / dL ) did not differ between the sitagliptin and placebo groups .
Vital Signs and Electrocardiograms With the combination of sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release , no clinically meaningful changes in vital signs or in electrocardiogram parameters ( including the QTc interval ) were observed .
Pancreatitis In a pooled analysis of 19 double - blind clinical trials that included data from 10 , 246 patients randomized to receive sitagliptin 100 mg / day ( N = 5429 ) or corresponding ( active or placebo ) control ( N = 4817 ) , the incidence of acute pancreatitis was 0 . 1 per 100 patient - years in each group ( 4 patients with an event in 4708 patient - years for sitagliptin and 4 patients with an event in 3942 patient - years for control ) .
Sitagliptin The most common adverse experience in sitagliptin monotherapy reported regardless of investigator assessment of causality in ≥ 5 % of patients and more commonly than in patients given placebo was nasopharyngitis .
Metformin Extended - Release In a 24 - week clinical trial in which extended - release metformin or placebo was added to glyburide therapy , the most common ( > 5 % and greater than placebo ) adverse reactions in the combined treatment group were hypoglycemia ( 13 . 7 % vs . 4 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 12 . 5 % vs . 5 . 6 % ) , and nausea ( 6 . 7 % vs . 4 . 2 % ) .
Laboratory Tests Sitagliptin The incidence of laboratory adverse reactions was similar in patients treated with sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release ( 7 . 6 % ) compared to patients treated with placebo and metformin ( 8 . 7 % ) .
In most but not all studies , a small increase in white blood cell count ( approximately 200 cells / microL difference in WBC vs . placebo ; mean baseline WBC approximately 6600 cells / microL ) was observed due to a small increase in neutrophils .
This change in laboratory parameters is not considered to be clinically relevant .
Metformin In controlled clinical trials of metformin of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of sitagliptin with metformin , sitagliptin , or metformin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , urticaria , cutaneous vasculitis , and exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ; upper respiratory tract infection ; hepatic enzyme elevations ; acute pancreatitis , including fatal and non - fatal hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] ; worsening renal function , including acute renal failure ( sometimes requiring dialysis ) ; severe and disabling arthralgia ; bullous pemphigoid ; constipation ; vomiting ; headache ; myalgia ; pain in extremity ; back pain ; pruritus ; mouth ulceration ; stomatitis ; cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury ; rhabdomyolysis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 presents clinically significant drug interactions with JANUMET XR : Table 4 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with JANUMET XRCarbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with JANUMET XR may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Intervention : Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Examples : Topiramate , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide .
Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with JANUMET XR .
Examples : Ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine .
Alcohol Clinical Impact : Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Intervention : Warn patients against alcohol intake while receiving JANUMET XR .
Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact : Coadministration of JANUMET XR with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin .
Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact : Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
Intervention : When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving JANUMET XR , observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving JANUMET XR , observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia .
Examples : Thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blockers , and isoniazid .
• Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring .
( 7 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance ( such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) may increase the accumulation of metformin .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
( 7 ) • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy .
( 8 . 3 ) • Geriatric Use : Assess renal function more frequently .
( 8 . 5 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to JANUMET XR during pregnancy .
Health care providers are encouraged to report any prenatal exposure to JANUMET XR by calling the Pregnancy Registry at 1 - 800 - 986 - 8999 .
Risk Summary The limited available data with JANUMET XR in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
Published studies with metformin use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defect or miscarriage risk [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when sitagliptin was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at oral doses up to 30 - times and 20 - times , respectively , the 100 mg clinical dose , based on AUC .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when metformin was administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 2 - and 6 - times , respectively , a 2000 mg clinical dose , based on body surface area [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a Hemoglobin A1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a Hemoglobin A1c > 10 % .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , still birth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from post - marketing studies do not report a clear association with metformin and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when metformin is used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Sitagliptin and Metformin No animal reproduction studies were conducted with the coadministration of sitagliptin and metformin .
Sitagliptin In embryo - fetal development studies , sitagliptin administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis ( gestation day 6 to 20 ) did not adversely affect developmental outcomes at oral doses up to 250 mg / kg ( 30 - times the 100 mg clinical dose ) and 125 mg / kg ( 20 - times the 100 mg clinical dose ) , respectively , based on AUC .
Higher doses in rats associated with maternal toxicity increased the incidence of rib malformations in offspring at 1000 mg / kg , or approximately 100 - times the clinical dose , based on AUC .
Placental transfer of sitagliptin was observed in pregnant rats and rabbits .
Sitagliptin administered to female rats from gestation day 6 to lactation day 21 caused no functional or behavioral toxicity in offspring of rats at doses up to 1000 mg / kg .
Metformin Metformin did not cause adverse developmental effects when administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits up to 600 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
This represents an exposure of about 2 - and 6 - times a 2000 mg clinical dose based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) for rats and rabbits , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of JANUMET XR in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Limited published studies report that metformin is present in human milk [ see Data ] .
There are no reports of adverse effects on breastfed infants exposed to metformin .
There is no information on the effects of metformin on milk production .
Sitagliptin is present in rat milk and therefore possibly present in human milk [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for JANUMET XR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from JANUMET XR or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Sitagliptin Sitagliptin is secreted in the milk of lactating rats at a milk to plasma ratio of 4 : 1 .
Metformin Published clinical lactation studies report that metformin is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 11 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 13 and 1 .
However , the studies were not designed to definitely establish the risk of use of metformin during lactation because of small sample size and limited adverse event data collected in infants .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as therapy with metformin may result in ovulation in some anovulatory women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of JANUMET XR have not been established in pediatric patients .
Three 20 - week double - blind , placebo - controlled studies each with 34 - week extensions were conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin in 410 pediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes , with or without insulin therapy ( HbA1c 6 . 5 - 10 % for patients not on insulin , HbA1c 7 - 10 % for patients on insulin ) .
At study entry , patients in study 1 were not treated with oral antihyperglycemic agents ; patients in studies 2 and 3 were on maximally tolerated metformin therapy .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in HbA1c after 20 weeks of therapy .
The pre - specified primary efficacy analyses included data from study 1 and pooled data from studies 2 and 3 , regardless of glycemic rescue or treatment discontinuation .
In both efficacy analyses , the effect of treatment with sitagliptin was not significantly different from placebo .
In study 1 , the mean baseline HbA1c was 7 . 5 % , and 12 % of patients were on insulin therapy .
At week 20 , the change from baseline in HbA1c in patients treated with sitagliptin ( N = 95 ) was 0 . 06 % compared to 0 . 23 % in patients treated with placebo ( N = 95 ) , a difference of - 0 . 17 % ( 95 % CI : - 0 . 62 , 0 . 28 ) .
In studies 2 and 3 , the mean baseline HbA1c was 8 . 0 % , 15 % of patients were on insulin and 72 % were on metformin HCl doses of greater than 1 , 500 mg daily .
At week 20 , the change from baseline in HbA1c in patients treated with sitagliptin ( N = 107 ) was - 0 . 23 % compared to 0 . 09 % in patients treated with placebo ( N = 113 ) , a difference of - 0 . 33 % ( 95 % CI : - 0 . 70 , 0 . 05 ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use JANUMET XR In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Renal function should be assessed more frequently in elderly patients .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) ; Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) ; Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
Sitagliptin Of the total number of subjects ( N = 3884 ) in clinical studies of sitagliptin , 725 patients were 65 years and over , while 61 patients were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects 65 years and over and younger subjects .
While this and other reported clinical experience have not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Metformin Controlled clinical studies of metformin did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and young patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment JANUMET XR The dose of the sitagliptin component should be limited to 50 mg once daily if eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
JANUMET XR is contraindicated in severe renal impairment , patients with an eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
Sitagliptin Sitagliptin is excreted by the kidney , and sitagliptin exposure is increased in patients with renal impairment .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
Metformin Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
JANUMET XR is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose with JANUMET XR , contact the Poison Control Center .
In the event of an overdose , it is reasonable to employ supportive measures , e . g . , remove unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract , employ clinical monitoring ( including obtaining an electrocardiogram ) , and institute supportive therapy as indicated by the patient ' s clinical status .
Sitagliptin is modestly dialyzable .
In clinical studies , approximately 13 . 5 % of the dose was removed over a 3 - to 4 - hour hemodialysis session .
Prolonged hemodialysis may be considered if clinically appropriate .
It is not known if sitagliptin is dialyzable by peritoneal dialysis .
Overdose of metformin has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
11 DESCRIPTION JANUMET XR tablets for oral use contain two antihyperglycemic medications : sitagliptin and metformin extended - release .
Sitagliptin Sitagliptin is an orally - active inhibitor of the dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) enzyme .
Sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate drug substance is used to manufacture JANUMET XR .
Sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate is described chemically as 7 - [ ( 3 R ) - 3 - amino - 1 - oxo - 4 - ( 2 , 4 , 5 - trifluorophenyl ) butyl ] - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazolo [ 4 , 3 - α ] pyrazine phosphate ( 1 : 1 ) monohydrate with an empirical formula of C16H15F6N5O • H3PO4 • H2O and a molecular weight of 523 . 32 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate is a white to off - white , crystalline , non - hygroscopic powder .
It is soluble in water and N , N - dimethyl formamide ; slightly soluble in methanol ; very slightly soluble in ethanol , acetone , and acetonitrile ; and insoluble in isopropanol and isopropyl acetate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin Metformin HCl ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide HCl ) is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin HCl is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin HCl is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin HCl is 6 . 68 .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] JANUMET XR JANUMET XR is available as film - coated tablets containing : • 64 . 25 mg sitagliptin monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg sitagliptin and 389 . 93 mg of metformin HCl equivalent to 500 mg metformin HCl ( JANUMET XR 50 / 500 ) .
• 64 . 25 mg sitagliptin monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg sitagliptin and 779 . 86 mg of metformin HCl equivalent to 1000 mg metformin HCl ( JANUMET XR 50 / 1000 ) .
• 128 . 5 mg sitagliptin monohydrate equivalent to 100 mg sitagliptin and 779 . 86 mg of metformin HCl equivalent to 1000 mg metformin HCl ( JANUMET XR 100 / 1000 ) .
All doses of JANUMET XR contain the following inactive ingredients : povidone , hypromellose , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium stearyl fumarate , propyl gallate , polyethylene glycol , and kaolin .
The JANUMET XR 50 mg / 500 mg tablet contains the additional inactive ingredient microcrystalline cellulose .
In addition , the film coating for all doses contains the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , titanium dioxide , FD & C # 2 / Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake and carnauba wax .
The JANUMET XR 50 mg / 1000 mg tablet film coating also contains the inactive ingredient yellow iron oxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action JANUMET XR JANUMET XR tablets combine two antihyperglycemic agents with complementary mechanisms of action to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus : sitagliptin , a dipeptidyl peptidase - 4 ( DPP - 4 ) inhibitor , and metformin extended - release , a member of the biguanide class .
Sitagliptin Sitagliptin is a DPP - 4 inhibitor , which exerts its actions in patients with type 2 diabetes by slowing the inactivation of incretin hormones .
Concentrations of the active intact hormones are increased by sitagliptin , thereby increasing and prolonging the action of these hormones .
Incretin hormones , including glucagon - like peptide - 1 ( GLP - 1 ) and glucose - dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) , are released by the intestine throughout the day , and levels are increased in response to a meal .
These hormones are rapidly inactivated by the enzyme DPP - 4 .
The incretins are part of an endogenous system involved in the physiologic regulation of glucose homeostasis .
When blood glucose concentrations are normal or elevated , GLP - 1 and GIP increase insulin synthesis and release from pancreatic beta cells by intracellular signaling pathways involving cyclic AMP .
GLP - 1 also lowers glucagon secretion from pancreatic alpha cells , leading to reduced hepatic glucose production .
By increasing and prolonging active incretin levels , sitagliptin increases insulin release and decreases glucagon levels in the circulation in a glucose - dependent manner .
Sitagliptin demonstrates selectivity for DPP - 4 and does not inhibit DPP - 8 or DPP - 9 activity in vitro at concentrations approximating those from therapeutic doses .
Metformin Metformin is a biguanide that improves glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may decrease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Sitagliptin In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , administration of sitagliptin led to inhibition of DPP - 4 enzyme activity for a 24 - hour period .
After an oral glucose load or a meal , this DPP - 4 inhibition resulted in a 2 - to 3 - fold increase in circulating levels of active GLP - 1 and GIP , decreased glucagon concentrations , and increased responsiveness of insulin release to glucose , resulting in higher C - peptide and insulin concentrations .
The rise in insulin with the decrease in glucagon was associated with lower fasting glucose concentrations and reduced glucose excursion following an oral glucose load or a meal .
In studies with healthy subjects , sitagliptin did not lower blood glucose or cause hypoglycemia .
Sitagliptin and Metformin Coadministration In a two - day study in healthy subjects , sitagliptin alone increased active GLP - 1 concentrations , whereas metformin alone increased active and total GLP - 1 concentrations to similar extents .
Coadministration of sitagliptin and metformin had an additive effect on active GLP - 1 concentrations .
Sitagliptin , but not metformin , increased active GIP concentrations .
It is unclear what these findings mean for changes in glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , placebo - controlled crossover study , 79 healthy subjects were administered a single oral dose of sitagliptin 100 mg , sitagliptin 800 mg ( 8 times the recommended dose ) , and placebo .
At the recommended dose of 100 mg , there was no effect on the QTc interval obtained at the peak plasma concentration , or at any other time during the study .
Following the 800 - mg dose , the maximum increase in the placebo - corrected mean change in QTc from baseline at 3 hours postdose was 8 . 0 msec .
This increase is not considered to be clinically significant .
At the 800 - mg dose , peak sitagliptin plasma concentrations were approximately 11 times higher than the peak concentrations following a 100 - mg dose .
In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus administered sitagliptin 100 mg ( N = 81 ) or sitagliptin 200 mg ( N = 63 ) daily , there were no meaningful changes in QTc interval based on ECG data obtained at the time of expected peak plasma concentration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics JANUMET XR After administration of two JANUMET XR 50 mg / 1000 mg tablets once daily with the evening meal for 7 days in healthy adult subjects , steady - state for sitagliptin and metformin is reached by Day 4 and 5 , respectively .
Sitagliptin The pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin have been extensively characterized in healthy subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Following a single oral 100 - mg dose to healthy volunteers , mean plasma AUC of sitagliptin was 8 . 52 µM • hr , Cmax was 950 nM , and apparent terminal half - life ( t ½ ) was 12 . 4 hours .
Plasma AUC of sitagliptin increased in a dose - proportional manner and increased approximately 14 % following 100 mg doses at steady - state compared to the first dose .
The intra - subject and inter - subject coefficients of variation for sitagliptin AUC were small ( 5 . 8 % and 15 . 1 % ) .
The pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin was generally similar in healthy subjects and in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Absorption JANUMET XR After administration of JANUMET XR tablets once daily , the median Tmax value for sitagliptin and metformin at steady state is approximately 3 and 8 hours postdose , respectively .
The median Tmax value for sitagliptin and metformin after administration of a single tablet of JANUMET is 3 and 3 . 5 hours postdose , respectively .
Effect of Food After administration of JANUMET XR tablets with a high - fat breakfast , the AUC for sitagliptin was not altered .
The mean Cmax was decreased by 17 % , although the median Tmax was unchanged relative to the fasted state .
After administration of JANUMET XR with a high - fat breakfast , the AUC for metformin increased 62 % , the Cmax for metformin decreased by 9 % , and the median Tmax for metformin occurred 2 hours later relative to the fasted state .
Sitagliptin After oral administration of a 100 mg dose to healthy subjects , sitagliptin was rapidly absorbed with peak plasma concentrations ( median Tmax ) occurring 1 to 4 hours postdose .
The absolute bioavailability of sitagliptin is approximately 87 % .
Effect of Food Coadministration of a high - fat meal with sitagliptin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin .
Metformin The absolute bioavailability of a metformin HCl 500 - mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 - 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of metformin HCl tablets 500 mg to 1 , 500 mg , and 850 mg to 2 , 550 mg ( approximately 1 . 3 times the maximum recommended daily dosage ) , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Effect of Food Food decreases the extent of and slightly delays the absorption of metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) , a 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 - minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) following administration of a single 850 - mg tablet of metformin HCl with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
The clinical relevance of these decreases is unknown .
Distribution Sitagliptin The mean volume of distribution at steady state following a single 100 - mg intravenous dose of sitagliptin to healthy subjects is approximately 198 liters .
The fraction of sitagliptin reversibly bound to plasma proteins is low ( 38 % ) .
Metformin Distribution studies with extended - release metformin have not been conducted ; however , the apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of immediate - release metformin HCl tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin tablets , steady - state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 - 48 hours and are generally < 1 mcg / mL .
Elimination Sitagliptin Approximately 79 % of sitagliptin is excreted unchanged in the urine with metabolism being a minor pathway of elimination .
The apparent terminal t1 / 2 following a 100 mg oral dose of sitagliptin was approximately 12 . 4 hours and renal clearance was approximately 350 mL / min .
Metformin Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Metabolism Sitagliptin Following a [ 14 C ] sitagliptin oral dose , approximately 16 % of the radioactivity was excreted as metabolites of sitagliptin .
Six metabolites were detected at trace levels and are not expected to contribute to the plasma DPP - 4 inhibitory activity of sitagliptin .
In vitro studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of sitagliptin was CYP3A4 , with contribution from CYP2C8 .
Metformin Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) or biliary excretion .
Metabolism studies with extended - release metformin tablets have not been conducted .
Excretion Sitagliptin Following administration of an oral [ 14 C ] sitagliptin dose to healthy subjects , approximately 100 % of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in feces ( 13 % ) or urine ( 87 % ) within one week of dosing .
Elimination of sitagliptin occurs primarily via renal excretion and involves active tubular secretion .
Sitagliptin is a substrate for human organic anion transporter - 3 ( hOAT - 3 ) , which may be involved in the renal elimination of sitagliptin .
The clinical relevance of hOAT - 3 in sitagliptin transport has not been established .
Sitagliptin is also a substrate of p - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , which may also be involved in mediating the renal elimination of sitagliptin .
However , cyclosporine , a P - gp inhibitor , did not reduce the renal clearance of sitagliptin .
Metformin Elimination of metformin occurs primarily via renal excretion .
Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment JANUMET XR Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin and metformin after administration of JANUMET XR in renally impaired patients have not been performed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Sitagliptin An approximately 2 - fold increase in the plasma AUC of sitagliptin was observed in patients with moderate renal impairment with eGFR of 30 to less than 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , and an approximately 4 - fold increase was observed in patients with severe renal impairment including patients with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) on hemodialysis , as compared to normal healthy control subjects .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) . ]
Metformin In patients with decreased renal function , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment JANUMET XR Studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin and metformin after administration of JANUMET XR in patients with hepatic impairment have not been performed .
Sitagliptin In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) , mean AUC and Cmax of sitagliptin increased approximately 21 % and 13 % , respectively , compared to healthy matched controls following administration of a single 100 - mg dose of sitagliptin .
These differences are not considered to be clinically meaningful .
There is no clinical experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score > 9 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Metformin No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Effects of Age , Body Mass Index ( BMI ) , Gender , and Race Sitagliptin Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis or a composite analysis of available pharmacokinetic data , BMI , gender , and race do not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin .
When the effects of age on renal function are taken into account , age alone did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
Elderly subjects ( 65 to 80 years ) had approximately 19 % higher plasma concentrations of sitagliptin compared to younger subjects .
Metformin Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function .
Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus when analyzed according to gender .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin was comparable in males and females .
No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in Whites ( n = 249 ) , Blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Drug Interaction Studies JANUMET XR Coadministration of multiple doses of sitagliptin ( 50 mg ) and metformin HCl ( 1000 mg ) given twice daily did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either sitagliptin or metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes .
Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with JANUMET XR have not been performed ; however , such studies have been conducted with the individual components of JANUMET XR ( sitagliptin and metformin extended - release ) .
Sitagliptin In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Sitagliptin is not an inhibitor of CYP isozymes CYP3A4 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2D6 , 1A2 , 2C19 or 2B6 , and is not an inducer of CYP3A4 .
Sitagliptin is a P - gp substrate , but does not inhibit P - gp mediated transport of digoxin .
Based on these results , sitagliptin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with other drugs that utilize these pathways .
Sitagliptin is not extensively bound to plasma proteins .
Therefore , the propensity of sitagliptin to be involved in clinically meaningful drug - drug interactions mediated by plasma protein binding displacement is very low .
In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Effects of Sitagliptin on Other Drugs In clinical studies , sitagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin , glyburide , simvastatin , rosiglitazone , digoxin , warfarin , or an oral contraception ( ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone ) ( Table 5 ) , providing in vivo evidence of a low propensity for causing drug interactions with substrates of CYP3A4 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , P - gp , and organic cationic transporter ( OCT ) .
Table 5 : Effect of Sitagliptin on Systemic Exposure of Coadministered DrugsCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Sitagliptin null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without sitagliptin ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax Digoxin 0 . 25 mg [ 3 ] once daily for 10 days 100 mg null once daily for 10 days Digoxin 1 . 11 [ 4 ] 1 . 18 Glyburide 1 . 25 mg 200 mg null once daily for 6 days Glyburide 1 . 09 1 . 01 Simvastatin 20 mg 200 mg null once daily for 5 days Simvastatin 0 . 85 [ 5 ] 0 . 80 Simvastatin Acid 1 . 12 null 1 . 06 Rosiglitazone 4 mg 200 mg null once daily for 5 days Rosiglitazone 0 . 98 0 . 99 Warfarin 30 mg single dose on day 5 200 mg null once daily for 11 days S ( - ) Warfarin 0 . 95 0 . 89 R ( + ) Warfarin 0 . 99 0 . 89 Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone 21 days once daily of 35 µg ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone 0 . 5 mg × 7 days , 0 . 75 mg × 7 days , 1 . 0 mg × 7 days 200 mg null once daily for 21 days Ethinyl estradiol 0 . 99 0 . 97 Norethindrone 1 . 03 0 . 98 Metformin HCl 1000 mg null twice daily for 14 days 50 mg null twice daily for 7 days Metformin 1 . 02 [ 6 ] 0 . 97 [ 1 ] All doses administered as single dose unless otherwise specified .
[ 2 ] AUC is reported as AUC0 - ∞ unless otherwise specified .
[ 3 ] Multiple dose .
[ 4 ] AUC0 - 24 hr .
[ 5 ] AUC0 - last .
[ 6 ] AUC0 - 12 hr .
Effects of Other Drugs on Sitagliptin Clinical data described below suggest that sitagliptin is not susceptible to clinically meaningful interactions by coadministered medications ( Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Systemic Exposure of SitagliptinCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Sitagliptin null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax Cyclosporine 600 mg once daily 100 mg once daily Sitagliptin 1 . 29 1 . 68 Metformin HCl 1000 mg [ 3 ] twice daily for 14 days 50 mg null twice daily for 7 days Sitagliptin 1 . 02 [ 4 ] 1 . 05 [ 1 ] All doses administered as single dose unless otherwise specified .
[ 2 ] AUC is reported as AUC0 - ∞ unless otherwise specified .
[ 3 ] Multiple dose .
[ 4 ] AUC0 - 12 hr .
Metformin Table 7 : Effect of Metformin on Systemic Exposure of Coadministered DrugsCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without metformin ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg Cimetidine 0 . 95 [ 3 ] 1 . 01 Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 4 ] Glyburide 0 . 78 [ 5 ] 0 . 63 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg Furosemide 0 . 87 null 0 . 69 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg Nifedipine 1 . 10 null 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg Propranolol 1 . 01 null 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg Ibuprofen 0 . 97 [ 6 ] 1 . 01 null [ 1 ] All doses administered as single dose unless otherwise specified [ 2 ] AUC is reported as AUC0 - ∞ unless otherwise specified [ 3 ] AUC0 - 24 hr [ 4 ] GLUMETZA ( metformin HCl extended - release tablets ) 500 mg [ 5 ] Ratio of arithmetic means , p value of difference < 0 . 05 [ 6 ] Ratio of arithmetic means Table 8 : Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Systemic Exposure of MetforminCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 3 ] Metformin null 0 . 98 [ 4 ] 0 . 99 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg Metformin 1 . 09 null 1 . 22 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg Metformin 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg Metformin 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg Metformin 1 . 05 null 1 . 07 null Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion may increase the accumulation of metformin .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) . ]
Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg Metformin 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) . ]
Topiramate 100 mg [ 5 ] 500 mg null Metformin 1 . 25 null 1 . 17 [ 1 ] All doses administered as single dose unless otherwise specified [ 2 ] AUC is reported as AUC0 - ∞ unless otherwise specified [ 3 ] GLUMETZA ( metformin HCl extended - release tablets ) 500 mg [ 4 ] Ratio of arithmetic means [ 5 ] Steady state 100 mg Topiramate every 12 hr + metformin HCl 500 mg every 12 hr .
AUC = AUC0 - 12 hr 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility JANUMET XR No animal studies have been conducted with the combined products in JANUMET XR to evaluate carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
The following data are based on the findings in studies with sitagliptin and metformin individually .
Sitagliptin A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in male and female rats given oral doses of sitagliptin of 50 , 150 , and 500 mg / kg / day .
There was an increased incidence of combined liver adenoma / carcinoma in males and females and of liver carcinoma in females at 500 mg / kg .
This dose results in exposures approximately 60 times the human exposure at the maximum recommended daily adult human dose ( MRHD ) of 100 mg / day based on AUC comparisons .
Liver tumors were not observed at 150 mg / kg , approximately 20 times the human exposure at the MRHD .
A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in male and female mice given oral doses of sitagliptin of 50 , 125 , 250 , and 500 mg / kg / day .
There was no increase in the incidence of tumors in any organ up to 500 mg / kg , approximately 70 times human exposure at the MRHD .
Sitagliptin was not mutagenic or clastogenic with or without metabolic activation in the Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , a Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) chromosome aberration assay , an in vitro cytogenetics assay in CHO , an in vitro rat hepatocyte DNA alkaline elution assay , and an in vivo micronucleus assay .
In rat fertility studies with oral gavage doses of 125 , 250 , and 1000 mg / kg , males were treated for 4 weeks prior to mating , during mating , up to scheduled termination ( approximately 8 weeks total ) , and females were treated 2 weeks prior to mating through gestation day 7 .
No adverse effect on fertility was observed at 125 mg / kg ( approximately 12 times human exposure at the MRHD of 100 mg / day based on AUC comparisons ) .
At higher doses , nondose - related increased resorptions in females were observed ( approximately 25 and 100 times human exposure at the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Metformin Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 150 , 300 , and 450 mg / kg / day in males and 150 , 450 , 900 , and 1200 mg / kg / day in females .
These doses are approximately 2 , 4 , and 8 times in males , and 3 , 7 , 12 , and 16 times in females of the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female rats .
A carcinogenicity study was also performed in Tg . AC transgenic mice at doses up to 2000 mg applied dermally .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in male or female mice .
Genotoxicity assessments in the Ames test , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) and in vivo mouse micronucleus tests were negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was not affected by metformin when administered at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The coadministration of sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release has been studied in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on diet and exercise and in combination with other antidiabetic medications .
There have been no clinical efficacy or safety studies conducted with JANUMET XR to characterize its effect on hemoglobin A1c ( A1C ) reduction .
Bioequivalence of JANUMET XR tablets with coadministered sitagliptin and extended - release metformin tablets has been demonstrated for all tablet strengths [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Metformin Extended - Release Compared to Metformin Immediate - Release in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled , dose - ranging , parallel group trial extended - release metformin HCl 1500 mg once daily , extended - release metformin HCl 1500 mg per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1000 mg in the evening ) , and extended - release metformin HCl 2000 mg once daily were compared to immediate - release metformin HCl 1500 mg per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1000 mg in the evening ) .
This trial enrolled patients ( n = 338 ) who were newly diagnosed with diabetes , patients treated only with diet and exercise , patients treated with a single anti - diabetic medication ( sulfonylureas , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , thiazolidinediones , or meglitinides ) , and patients ( n = 368 ) receiving metformin HCl up to 1500 mg / day plus a sulfonylurea at a dose equal to or less than one - half the maximum dose .
Patients who were enrolled on monotherapy or combination antidiabetic therapy underwent a 6 - week washout .
Patients randomized to extended - release metformin HCl began titration from 1000 mg / day up to their assigned treatment dose over 3 weeks .
Patients randomized to immediate - release metformin HCl initiated 500 mg twice daily for 1 week followed by 500 mg with breakfast and 1000 mg with dinner for the second week .
The 3 - week treatment period was followed by an additional 21 - week period at the randomized dose .
For HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose , each of the extended - release metformin regimens was at least as effective as immediate - release metformin .
Additionally , once daily dosing of extended - release metformin was as effective as twice daily dosing of the immediate - release metformin formulation .
Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release Coadministration in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise A total of 1091 patients with type 2 diabetes and inadequate glycemic control on diet and exercise participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled factorial study designed to assess the efficacy of sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release coadministration .
Patients on an antihyperglycemic agent ( N = 541 ) underwent a diet , exercise , and drug washout period of up to 12 weeks duration .
After the washout period , patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 11 % ) were randomized after completing a 2 - week single - blind placebo run - in period .
Patients not on antihyperglycemic agents at study entry ( N = 550 ) with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 11 % ) immediately entered the 2 - week single - blind placebo run - in period and then were randomized .
Approximately equal numbers of patients were randomized to receive placebo , 100 mg of sitagliptin once daily , 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin HCl immediate - release twice daily , or 50 mg of sitagliptin twice daily in combination with 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin HCl immediate - release twice daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the study were treated with glyburide ( glibenclamide ) rescue .
Sitagliptin and metformin immediate - release coadministration provided significant improvements in A1C , FPG , and 2 - hour PPG compared to placebo , to metformin immediate - release alone , and to sitagliptin alone ( Table 9 , Figure 1 ) .
For patients not on an antihyperglycemic agent at study entry , mean reductions from baseline in A1C were : sitagliptin 100 mg once daily , - 1 . 1 % ; metformin HCl immediate - release 500 mg bid , - 1 . 1 % ; metformin HCl immediate - release 1000 mg bid , - 1 . 2 % ; sitagliptin 50 mg bid with metformin HCl immediate - release 500 mg bid , - 1 . 6 % ; sitagliptin 50 mg bid with metformin HCl immediate - release 1000 mg bid , - 1 . 9 % ; and for patients receiving placebo , - 0 . 2 % .
Lipid effects were generally neutral .
The decrease in body weight in the groups given sitagliptin in combination with metformin immediate - release was similar to that in the groups given metformin alone or placebo .
Table 9 : Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) for Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release , Alone and in Combination in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Diet and Exercise [ 1 ] Placebo Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg twice daily Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 1000 mg twice daily Sitagliptin 50 mg bid + Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 500 mg twice daily Sitagliptin 50 mg bid + Metformin HCl Immediate - Release 1000 mg twice daily A1C ( % ) N = 165 N = 175 N = 178 N = 177 N = 183 N = 178 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 7 8 . 9 8 . 9 8 . 7 8 . 8 8 . 8 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] ) 0 . 2 - 0 . 7 - 0 . 8 - 1 . 1 - 1 . 4 - 1 . 9 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 8 [ 3 ] ( - 1 . 1 , - 0 . 6 ) - 1 . 0 null ( - 1 . 2 , - 0 . 8 ) - 1 . 3 null ( - 1 . 5 , - 1 . 1 ) - 1 . 6 null ( - 1 . 8 , - 1 . 3 ) - 2 . 1 null ( - 2 . 3 , - 1 . 8 ) Patients ( % ) achieving A1C < 7 % 15 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 20 % ) 41 ( 23 % ) 68 ( 38 % ) 79 ( 43 % ) 118 ( 66 % ) % Patients receiving rescue medication 32 21 17 12 8 2 FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 169 N = 178 N = 179 N = 179 N = 183 N = 180 Baseline ( mean ) 196 201 205 197 204 197 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) 6 - 17 - 27 - 29 - 47 - 64 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 23 null ( - 33 , - 14 ) - 33 null ( - 43 , - 24 ) - 35 null ( - 45 , - 26 ) - 53 null ( - 62 , - 43 ) - 70 null ( - 79 , - 60 ) 2 - hour PPG ( mg / dL ) N = 129 N = 136 N = 141 N = 138 N = 147 N = 152 Baseline ( mean ) 277 285 293 283 292 287 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) 0 - 52 - 53 - 78 - 93 - 117 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 52 null ( - 67 , - 37 ) - 54 null ( - 69 , - 39 ) - 78 null ( - 93 , - 63 ) - 93 null ( - 107 , - 78 ) - 117 null ( - 131 , - 102 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation on study prior to glyburide ( glibenclamide ) rescue therapy .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy status and baseline value .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
Figure 1 : Mean Change from Baseline for A1C ( % ) over 24 Weeks with Sitagliptin and Metformin Immediate - Release , Alone and in Combination in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled with Diet and Exercise [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] The Completers Population : least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy and baseline value .
Initial combination therapy or maintenance of combination therapy should be individualized and are left to the discretion of the health care provider .
Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release Alone A total of 701 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of sitagliptin in combination with metformin immediate - release .
Patients already on metformin HCl immediate - release ( N = 431 ) at a dose of at least 1500 mg per day were randomized after completing a 2 - week , single - blind placebo run - in period .
Patients on metformin immediate - release and another antihyperglycemic agent ( N = 229 ) and patients not on any antihyperglycemic agents ( off therapy for at least 8 weeks , N = 41 ) were randomized after a run - in period of approximately 10 weeks on metformin HCl immediate - release ( at a dose of at least 1500 mg per day ) in monotherapy .
Patients were randomized to the addition of either 100 mg of sitagliptin or placebo , administered once daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the studies were treated with pioglitazone rescue .
In combination with metformin immediate - release , sitagliptin provided significant improvements in A1C , FPG , and 2 - hour PPG compared to placebo with metformin immediate - release ( Table 10 ) .
Rescue glycemic therapy was used in 5 % of patients treated with sitagliptin 100 mg and 14 % of patients treated with placebo .
A similar decrease in body weight was observed for both treatment groups .
Table 10 : Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) of Sitagliptin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin Immediate - Release [ 1 ] Sitagliptin 100 mg once daily + Metformin Immediate - Release Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release A1C ( % ) N = 453 N = 224 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 0 8 . 0 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] ) - 0 . 7 - 0 . 0 Difference from placebo + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 7 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 5 ) Patients ( % ) achieving A1C < 7 % 213 ( 47 % ) 41 ( 18 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 454 N = 226 Baseline ( mean ) 170 174 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 17 9 Difference from placebo + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 25 null ( - 31 , - 20 ) 2 - hour PPG ( mg / dL ) N = 387 N = 182 Baseline ( mean ) 275 272 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 62 - 11 Difference from placebo + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 51 null ( - 61 , - 41 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation on study prior to pioglitazone rescue therapy .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy and baseline value .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo + metformin .
Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on the Combination of Metformin Immediate - Release and Glimepiride A total of 441 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of sitagliptin in combination with glimepiride , with or without metformin immediate - release .
Patients entered a run - in treatment period on glimepiride ( ≥ 4 mg per day ) alone or glimepiride in combination with metformin HCl immediate - release ( ≥ 1500 mg per day ) .
After a dose - titration and dose - stable run - in period of up to 16 weeks and a 2 - week placebo run - in period , patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 10 . 5 % ) were randomized to the addition of either 100 mg of sitagliptin or placebo , administered once daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the studies were treated with pioglitazone rescue .
Patients receiving sitagliptin with metformin immediate - release and glimepiride had significant improvements in A1C and FPG compared to patients receiving placebo with metformin immediate - release and glimepiride ( Table 11 ) , with mean reductions from baseline relative to placebo in A1C of - 0 . 9 % and in FPG of - 21 mg / dL .
Rescue therapy was used in 8 % of patients treated with add - on sitagliptin 100 mg and 29 % of patients treated with add - on placebo .
The patients treated with add - on sitagliptin had a mean increase in body weight of 1 . 1 kg vs . add - on placebo ( + 0 . 4 kg vs . - 0 . 7 kg ) .
In addition , add - on sitagliptin resulted in an increased rate of hypoglycemia compared to add - on placebo .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ; Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) . ]
Table 11 : Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) for Sitagliptin in Combination with Metformin Immediate - Release and Glimepiride [ 1 ] Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release and Glimepiride Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release and Glimepiride A1C ( % ) N = 115 N = 105 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 3 8 . 3 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] ) - 0 . 6 0 . 3 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 9 [ 3 ] ( - 1 . 1 , - 0 . 7 ) Patients ( % ) achieving A1C < 7 % 26 ( 23 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 115 N = 109 Baseline ( mean ) 179 179 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 8 13 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 21 null ( - 32 , - 10 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation on study prior to pioglitazone rescue therapy .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy status and baseline value .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on the Combination of Metformin Immediate - Release and Rosiglitazone A total of 278 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 54 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of sitagliptin in combination with metformin immediate - release and rosiglitazone .
Patients on dual therapy with metformin HCl immediate - release ≥ 1500 mg / day and rosiglitazone ≥ 4 mg / day or with metformin HCl immediate - release ≥ 1500 mg / day and pioglitazone ≥ 30 mg / day ( switched to rosiglitazone ≥ 4 mg / day ) entered a dose - stable run - in period of 6 weeks .
Patients on other dual therapy were switched to metformin HCl immediate - release ≥ 1500 mg / day and rosiglitazone ≥ 4 mg / day in a dose titration / stabilization run - in period of up to 20 weeks in duration .
After the run - in period , patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 11 % ) were randomized 2 : 1 to the addition of either 100 mg of sitagliptin or placebo , administered once daily .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the studies were treated with glipizide ( or other sulfonylurea ) rescue .
The primary time point for evaluation of glycemic parameters was Week 18 .
In combination with metformin immediate - release and rosiglitazone , sitagliptin provided significant improvements in A1C , FPG , and 2 - hour PPG compared to placebo with metformin immediate - release and rosiglitazone ( Table 12 ) at Week 18 .
At Week 54 , mean reduction in A1C was - 1 . 0 % for patients treated with sitagliptin and - 0 . 3 % for patients treated with placebo in an analysis based on the intent - to - treat population .
Rescue therapy was used in 18 % of patients treated with sitagliptin 100 mg and 40 % of patients treated with placebo .
There was no significant difference between sitagliptin and placebo in body weight change .
Table 12 : Glycemic Parameters at Week 18 for Sitagliptin in Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin Immediate - Release and Rosiglitazone [ 1 ] Week 18 Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release + Rosiglitazone Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release + Rosiglitazone A1C ( % ) N = 176 N = 93 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 8 8 . 7 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] ) - 1 . 0 - 0 . 4 Difference from placebo + rosiglitazone + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 7 [ 3 ] ( - 0 . 9 , - 0 . 4 ) Patients ( % ) achieving A1C < 7 % 39 ( 22 % ) 9 ( 10 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 179 N = 94 Baseline ( mean ) 181 182 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 30 - 11 Difference from placebo + rosiglitazone + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 18 null ( - 26 , - 10 ) 2 - hour PPG ( mg / dL ) N = 152 N = 80 Baseline ( mean ) 256 248 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 59 - 21 Difference from placebo + rosiglitazone + metformin immediate - release ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 39 null ( - 51 , - 26 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation on study prior to glipizide ( or other sulfonylurea ) rescue therapy .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy status and baseline value .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo + metformin + rosiglitazone .
Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on the Combination of Metformin Immediate - Release and Insulin A total of 641 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study designed to assess the efficacy of sitagliptin as add - on to insulin therapy .
Approximately 75 % of patients were also taking metformin immediate - release .
Patients entered a 2 - week , single - blind run - in treatment period on pre - mixed , long - acting , or intermediate - acting insulin , with or without metformin HCl immediate - release ( ≥ 1500 mg per day ) .
Patients using short - acting insulins were excluded unless the short - acting insulin was administered as part of a pre - mixed insulin .
After the run - in period , patients with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 11 % ) were randomized to the addition of either 100 mg of sitagliptin ( N = 229 ) or placebo ( N = 233 ) , administered once daily .
Patients were on a stable dose of insulin prior to enrollment with no changes in insulin dose permitted during the run - in period .
Patients who failed to meet specific glycemic goals during the double - blind treatment period were to have uptitration of the background insulin dose as rescue therapy .
Among patients also receiving metformin immediate - release , the median daily insulin ( pre - mixed , intermediate or long acting ) dose at baseline was 40 units in the sitagliptin - treated patients and 42 units in the placebo - treated patients .
The median change from baseline in daily dose of insulin was zero for both groups at the end of the study .
Patients receiving sitagliptin with metformin immediate - release and insulin had significant improvements in A1C , FPG and 2 - hour PPG compared to patients receiving placebo with metformin immediate - release and insulin ( Table 13 ) .
The adjusted mean change from baseline in body weight was - 0 . 3 kg in patients receiving sitagliptin with metformin immediate - release and insulin and - 0 . 2 kg in patients receiving placebo with metformin immediate - release and insulin .
There was an increased rate of hypoglycemia in patients treated with sitagliptin .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ; Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) . ]
Table 13 : Glycemic Parameters at Final Visit ( 24 - Week Study ) for Sitagliptin as Add - on Combination Therapy with Metformin Immediate - Release and Insulin [ 1 ] Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release + Insulin Placebo + Metformin Immediate - Release + Insulin A1C ( % ) N = 223 N = 229 Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 7 8 . 6 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] ) - 0 . 7 - 0 . 1 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 5 [ 4 ] ( - 0 . 7 , - 0 . 4 ) Patients ( % ) achieving A1C < 7 % 32 ( 14 % ) 12 ( 5 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 225 N = 229 Baseline ( mean ) 173 176 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 22 - 4 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 18 null ( - 28 , - 8 . 4 ) 2 - hour PPG ( mg / dL ) N = 182 N = 189 Baseline ( mean ) 281 281 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 39 1 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 40 null ( - 53 , - 28 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - treat population using last observation on study prior to rescue therapy .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for insulin use at the screening visit , type of insulin used at the screening visit ( pre - mixed vs . non pre - mixed [ intermediate - or long - acting ] ) , and baseline value .
[ 3 ] Treatment by insulin stratum interaction was not significant ( p > 0 . 10 ) .
[ 4 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
Maintenance of Sitagliptin During Initiation and Titration of Insulin Glargine A total of 746 patients with type 2 diabetes ( mean baseline HbA1C 8 . 8 % , disease duration 10 . 8 years ) participated in a 30 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study to assess the efficacy and safety of continuing sitagliptin during the initiation and uptitration of insulin glargine .
Patients who were on a stable dose of metformin HCl ( ≥ 1500 mg / day ) in combination with a DPP - 4 inhibitor and / or sulfonylurea but with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 7 . 5 % to 11 % ) were enrolled in the study .
Those on metformin and sitagliptin ( 100 mg / day ) directly entered the double - blind treatment period ; those on another DPP - 4 inhibitor and / or on a sulfonylurea entered a 4 - 8 week run - in period in which they were maintained on metformin and switched to sitagliptin ( 100 mg ) ; other DPP - 4 inhibitors and sulfonylureas were discontinued .
At randomization patients were randomized either to continue sitagliptin or to discontinue sitagliptin and switch to a matching placebo .
On the day of randomization , insulin glargine was initiated at a dose of 10 units subcutaneously in the evening .
Patients were instructed to uptitrate their insulin dose in the evening based on fasting blood glucose measurements to achieve a target of 72 - 100 mg / dL .
At 30 weeks , the mean reduction in A1C was greater in the sitagliptin group than in the placebo group ( Table 14 ) .
At the end of the trial , 27 . 3 % of patients in the sitagliptin group and 27 . 3 % in the placebo group had a fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) in the target range ; there was no significant difference in insulin dose between arms .
Table 14 : Change from Baseline in A1C and FPG at Week 30 in the Maintenance of Sitagliptin During Initiation and Titration of Insulin Glargine Study Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin + Insulin Glargine Placebo + Metformin + Insulin Glargine A1C ( % ) N = 373 [ 1 ] N = 370 null Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 8 8 . 8 Week 30 ( mean ) 6 . 9 7 . 3 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) [ 2 ] - 1 . 9 - 1 . 4 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean ) ( 95 % CI ) null - 0 . 4 ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 3 ) [ 3 ] Patients ( % ) with A1C < 7 % 202 ( 54 . 2 % ) 131 ( 35 . 4 % ) FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 373 null N = 370 null Baseline ( mean ) 199 201 Week 30 ( mean ) 118 123 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean ) null - 81 - 76 [ 1 ] N is the number of randomized and treated patients .
[ 2 ] Analysis of Covariance including all post - baseline data regardless of rescue or treatment discontinuation .
Model estimates calculated using multiple imputation to model washout of the treatment effect using placebo data for all subjects having missing Week 30 data .
[ 3 ] p < 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
Sitagliptin Add - on Therapy vs . Glipizide Add - on Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release The efficacy of sitagliptin was evaluated in a 52 - week , double - blind , glipizide - controlled noninferiority trial in patients with type 2 diabetes .
Patients not on treatment or on other antihyperglycemic agents entered a run - in treatment period of up to 12 weeks duration with metformin HCl immediate - release monotherapy ( dose of ≥ 1500 mg per day ) which included washout of medications other than metformin immediate - release , if applicable .
After the run - in period , those with inadequate glycemic control ( A1C 6 . 5 % to 10 % ) were randomized 1 : 1 to the addition of sitagliptin 100 mg once daily or glipizide for 52 weeks .
Patients receiving glipizide were given an initial dosage of 5 mg / day and then electively titrated over the next 18 weeks to a maximum dosage of 20 mg / day as needed to optimize glycemic control .
Thereafter , the glipizide dose was to be kept constant , except for down - titration to prevent hypoglycemia .
The mean dose of glipizide after the titration period was 10 mg .
After 52 weeks , sitagliptin and glipizide had similar mean reductions from baseline in A1C in the intent - to - treat analysis ( Table 15 ) .
These results were consistent with the per protocol analysis ( Figure 2 ) .
A conclusion in favor of the non - inferiority of sitagliptin to glipizide may be limited to patients with baseline A1C comparable to those included in the study ( over 70 % of patients had baseline A1C < 8 % and over 90 % had A1C < 9 % ) .
Table 15 : Glycemic Parameters in a 52 - Week Study Comparing Sitagliptin to Glipizide as Add - On Therapy in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release ( Intent - to - Treat Population ) [ 1 ] Sitagliptin 100 mg + Metformin Immediate - Release Glipizide + Metformin Immediate - Release A1C ( % ) N = 576 N = 559 Baseline ( mean ) 7 . 7 7 . 6 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean [ 2 ] ) - 0 . 5 - 0 . 6 FPG ( mg / dL ) N = 583 N = 568 Baseline ( mean ) 166 164 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null ) - 8 - 8 [ 1 ] The intent - to - treat analysis used the patients ' last observation in the study prior to discontinuation .
[ 2 ] Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycemic therapy status and baseline A1C value .
Figure 2 : Mean Change from Baseline for A1C ( % ) Over 52 Weeks in a Study Comparing Sitagliptin to Glipizide as Add - On Therapy in Patients Inadequately Controlled on Metformin Immediate - Release ( Per Protocol Population ) [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] The per protocol population ( mean baseline A1C of 7 . 5 % ) included patients without major protocol violations who had observations at baseline and at Week 52 .
The incidence of hypoglycemia in the sitagliptin group ( 4 . 9 % ) was significantly ( p < 0 . 001 ) lower than that in the glipizide group ( 32 . 0 % ) .
Patients treated with sitagliptin exhibited a significant mean decrease from baseline in body weight compared to a significant weight gain in patients administered glipizide ( - 1 . 5 kg vs . + 1 . 1 kg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 4411 NDC : 50090 - 4411 - 0 90 TABLET , FILM COATED , EXTENDED RELEASE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 4411 - 1 180 TABLET , FILM COATED , EXTENDED RELEASE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Lactic Acidosis Explain the risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development .
Advise patients to discontinue JANUMET XR immediately and to promptly notify their healthcare provider if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgias , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Counsel patients against excessive alcohol intake and inform patients about the importance of regular testing of renal function while receiving JANUMET XR .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking JANUMET XR prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pancreatitis Inform patients that acute pancreatitis has been reported during postmarketing use of JANUMET XR .
Inform patients that persistent severe abdominal pain , sometimes radiating to the back , which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting , is the hallmark symptom of acute pancreatitis .
Instruct patients to promptly discontinue JANUMET XR and contact their physician if persistent severe abdominal pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Heart Failure Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of heart failure .
Before initiating JANUMET XR , ask patients about a history of heart failure or other risk factors for heart failure including moderate to severe renal impairment .
Instruct patients to contact their health care provider as soon as possible if they experience symptoms of heart failure , including increasing shortness of breath , rapid increase in weight or swelling of the feet [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Vitamin B12 Deficiency Inform patients about the importance of regular monitoring of hematological parameters while receiving JANUMET XR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia Inform patients that the incidence of hypoglycemia is increased when sitagliptin with or without metformin is added to an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin therapy .
Explain to patients receiving JANUMET XR in combination with these medications the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment and conditions that predispose to its development [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that allergic reactions have been reported during postmarketing use of sitagliptin , one of the components of JANUMET XR .
If symptoms of allergic reactions ( including rash , hives , and swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing ) occur , patients must stop taking JANUMET XR and seek medical advice promptly .
Severe and Disabling Arthralgia Inform patients that severe and disabling joint pain may occur with this class of drugs .
The time to onset of symptoms can range from one day to years .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if severe joint pain occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Bullous Pemphigoid Inform patients that bullous pemphigoid may occur with this class of drugs .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if blisters or erosions occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Inform patients that the tablets must be swallowed whole and never split , crushed or chewed .
Incompletely Dissolved Tablets in Feces Inform patients that incompletely dissolved JANUMET XR tablets may be eliminated in the feces .
Tell patients that , if they repeatedly see tablets in feces , they should report this finding to their health care provider .
Assess adequacy of glycemic control if a patient reports repeatedly observing tablets in feces .
Females of Reproductive Age : Inform females that treatment with JANUMET XR may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women which may lead to unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Distributed by : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html Copyright © 2012 - 2020 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
uspi - mk0431a - xrt - 2012r016 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 12 / 2020 Medication Guide JANUMET ® XR ( JAN - you - met XR ) ( sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release ) tablets , for oral use Read this Medication Guide carefully before you start taking JANUMET XR and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about JANUMET XR , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about JANUMET XR ?
JANUMET XR can cause serious side effects , including : • 1 .
Lactic Acidosis .
Metformin , one of the medicines in JANUMET XR , can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of an acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Stop taking JANUMET XR and call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms , which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • you feel cold in your hands or feet • you feel dizzy or lightheaded • you have a slow or irregular heartbeat • you feel very weak or tired • you have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • you have trouble breathing • you feel sleepy or drowsy • you have stomach pains , nausea or vomiting Most people who have had lactic acidosis with metformin have other things that , combined with the metformin , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with JANUMET XR if you : • have severe kidney problems or your kidneys are affected by certain x - ray tests that use injectable dye • have liver problems • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term " binge " drinking • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke • are 65 years of age or older The best way to keep from having a problem with lactic acidosis from metformin is to tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Your doctor may decide to stop your JANUMET XR for a while if you have any of these things .
JANUMET XR can have other serious side effects .
See " What are the possible side effects of JANUMET XR ? "
• 2 .
Pancreatitis ( inflammation of the pancreas ) which may be severe and lead to death .
Certain medical problems make you more likely to get pancreatitis .
Before you start taking JANUMET XR , tell your doctor if you have ever had : • • pancreatitis • stones in your gallbladder ( gallstones ) • a history of alcoholism • high blood triglyceride levels Stop taking JANUMET XR and call your doctor right away if you have pain in your stomach area ( abdomen ) that is severe and will not go away .
The pain may be felt going from your abdomen through to your back .
The pain may happen with or without vomiting .
These may be symptoms of pancreatitis .
• 3 .
Heart failure .
Heart failure means that your heart does not pump blood well enough .
Before you start taking JANUMET XR , tell your doctor if you have ever had heart failure or have problems with your kidneys .
Contact your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • increasing shortness of breath or trouble breathing , especially when you lie down • swelling or fluid retention , especially in the feet , ankles or legs • an unusually fast increase in weight • unusual tiredness These may be symptoms of heart failure .
What is JANUMET XR ?
• JANUMET XR is a prescription medicine that contains 2 prescription diabetes medicines , sitagliptin ( JANUVIA ) and extended - release metformin hydrochloride .
JANUMET XR can be used along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar in adults with type 2 diabetes .
• JANUMET XR is not for people with type 1 diabetes .
• If you have had pancreatitis ( inflammation of the pancreas ) in the past , it is not known if you have a higher chance of getting pancreatitis while you take JANUMET XR .
• The safety and effectiveness of JANUMET XR have not been established in pediatric patients .
Who should not take JANUMET XR ?
Do not take JANUMET XR if you : • have severe kidney problems .
• have diabetic ketoacidosis .
• are allergic to any of the ingredients in JANUMET XR .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in JANUMET XR .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to JANUMET XR may include rash , raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) or swelling of the face , lips , tongue , and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing .
What should I tell my doctor before taking JANUMET XR ?
Before you take JANUMET XR , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had inflammation of your pancreas ( pancreatitis ) .
• have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have heart failure .
• drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term " binge " drinking .
• are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure .
JANUMET XR may need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your doctor about when you should stop JANUMET XR and when you should start JANUMET XR again .
See " What is the most important information I should know about JANUMET XR ? "
.
• have low levels of vitamin B12 in your blood .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if JANUMET XR will harm your unborn baby .
If you are pregnant , talk with your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
Pregnancy Registry : If you take JANUMET XR at any time during your pregnancy , talk with your doctor about how you can join the JANUMET XR pregnancy registry .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 800 - 986 - 8999 .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if JANUMET XR will pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking JANUMET XR .
• are a woman who has not gone through menopause ( premenopausal ) who does not have periods regularly or at all .
JANUMET XR can cause the release of an egg from an ovary in a woman ( ovulation ) .
This can increase your chance of getting pregnant .
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking JANUMET XR .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
JANUMET XR may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how JANUMET XR works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take JANUMET XR ?
• Take JANUMET XR exactly as your doctor tells you .
Your doctor will tell you how many JANUMET XR tablets to take and when you should take them .
• Your doctor may change your dose of JANUMET XR if needed .
• Your doctor may tell you to take JANUMET XR along with certain other diabetes medicines .
Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can happen more often when JANUMET XR is taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
See " What are the possible side effects of JANUMET XR ? "
.
• Take JANUMET XR 1 time each day with a meal to help to lower your chance of having an upset stomach .
It is better to take JANUMET XR with your evening meal .
• Take JANUMET XR tablets whole .
Do not break , cut , crush , or chew JANUMET XR tablets before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow JANUMET XR tablets whole , tell your doctor .
• You may see something that looks like the JANUMET XR tablet in your stool ( bowel movement ) .
If you see tablets in your stool several times , talk to your doctor .
Do not stop taking JANUMET XR without talking to your doctor .
• Continue to take JANUMET XR as long as your doctor tells you .
• If you take too much JANUMET XR , call your doctor or local Poison Control Center right away .
• If you miss a dose , take it with food as soon as you remember .
If you do not remember until it is time for your next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule .
Do not take 2 doses of JANUMET XR at the same time .
• You may need to stop taking JANUMET XR for a short time .
Call your doctor for instructions if you : • are dehydrated ( have lost too much body fluid ) .
Dehydration can occur if you are sick with severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a lot less fluid than normal .
• plan to have surgery .
• are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agent for an x - ray procedure .
See " What is the most important information I should know about JANUMET XR ? "
and " What should I tell my doctor before taking JANUMET XR ? "
.
• When your body is under some types of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine that you need may change .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these problems and follow your doctor ' s instructions .
• Check your blood sugar as your doctor tells you to .
• Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program while taking JANUMET XR .
• Talk to your doctor about how to prevent , recognize and manage low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and problems you have because of your diabetes .
• Your doctor will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A1C .
• Your doctor will do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with JANUMET XR .
What are the possible side effects of JANUMET XR ?
JANUMET XR may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about JANUMET XR ? "
.
• Kidney problems , sometimes requiring dialysis .
• Low vitamin B12 ( vitamin B12 deficiency ) .
Using metformin for long periods of time may cause a decrease in the amount of vitamin B12 in your blood , especially if you have had low vitamin B12 blood levels before .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check your vitamin B12 levels .
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
If you take JANUMET XR with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin , your risk of getting low blood sugar is higher .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you use JANUMET XR .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • drowsiness • irritability • hunger • dizziness • confusion • sweating • feeling jittery • weakness • fast heart beat • Serious allergic reactions .
If you have any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction , stop taking JANUMET XR and call your doctor right away or get emergency medical help .
See " Who should not take JANUMET XR ? "
.
Your doctor may give you a medicine for your allergic reaction and prescribe a different medicine for your diabetes .
• Joint pain .
Some people who take medicines called DPP - 4 inhibitors , one of the medicines in JANUMET XR , may develop joint pain that can be severe .
Call your doctor if you have severe joint pain .
• Skin reaction .
Some people who take medicines called DPP - 4 inhibitors , one of the medicines in JANUMET XR , may develop a skin reaction called bullous pemphigoid that can require treatment in a hospital .
Tell your doctor right away if you develop blisters or the breakdown of the outer layer of your skin ( erosion ) .
Your doctor may tell you to stop taking JANUMET XR .
The most common side effects of JANUMET XR include : • stuffy or runny nose and sore throat • gas , upset stomach , indigestion • headache • upper respiratory infection • weakness • diarrhea • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) when used in combination with certain medicines , such as a sulfonylurea or insulin • nausea and vomiting Taking JANUMET XR with meals can help lessen the common stomach side effects of metformin that usually happen at the beginning of treatment .
If you have unusual or sudden stomach problems , talk with your doctor .
Stomach problems that start later during treatment may be a sign of something more serious .
JANUMET XR may have other side effects , including swelling of the hands or legs .
Swelling of the hands and legs can happen if you take JANUMET XR in combination with rosiglitazone ( Avandia ) .
Rosiglitazone is another type of diabetes medicine .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of JANUMET XR .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store JANUMET XR ?
• Store JANUMET XR at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store in a dry place and keep the cap tightly closed .
Keep JANUMET XR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of JANUMET XR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use JANUMET XR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give JANUMET XR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about JANUMET XR .
If you would like to know more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about JANUMET XR that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in JANUMET XR ?
Active ingredients : sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release Inactive ingredients : • All doses of JANUMET XR Tablets contain : povidone , hypromellose , colloidal silicon dioxide , sodium stearyl fumarate , propyl gallate , polyethylene glycol , and kaolin .
Film coating contains hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , titanium dioxide , FD & C # 2 / Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake and carnauba wax .
• In addition the JANUMET XR 50 mg / 500 mg Tablets also contain : microcrystalline cellulose .
• In addition the JANUMET XR 50 mg / 1000 mg Tablets film coating also contain : yellow iron oxide .
Dist .
by : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For more information go to www . janumetxr . com or call 1 - 800 - 622 - 4477 .
For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html .
The trademarks depicted herein are owned by their respective companies .
Copyright © 2012 - 2020 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
usmg - mk0431a - xrt - 2012r009 sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
