Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Fexofenadine HCL USP 30 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itchy , watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take two 30 mg tablets with water every 12 hours ; do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take one tablet with water every 12 hours ; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • Tamper Evident : do not use if printed safety seal under cap is broken or missing • store between 20º and 25ºC ( 68º and 77ºF ) • protect from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , light liquid paraffin magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , pregelatinized starch , red iron oxide , sodium starch glycolate , talc , titanium dioxide , yellow iron oxide Questions or comments ?
Principal Display Panel * Compare to the active ingredient in Children ' s Allegra ® Allergy 12 Hour Children ' s Allergy Relief Fexofenadine HCL USP 30 mg Antihistamine 24 Hour Relief of : • sneezing • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • itchy nose or throat Indoor and outdoor allergy relief Non - drowsy Tablets * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem Inc . , distributor of Allegra ® Allergy 12 hour .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
