[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only DESCRIPTION Sodium Sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically , Sodium Sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfony ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash contains 90 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 45 mg of sulfur in a formulation consisting of : aloe vera , fragrance , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , green tea extract , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium methyl cocoyl tau rate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol and xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides in the Woods - Fildes theory which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , Sodium Sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours . The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to Sodium Sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General If irritation develops , use of this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be very carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but Sodium Sulfacetamide and Sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucuos membranes .
If accidental contact occures , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash once or twice daily to affected areas or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 % & Sulfur 4 . 5 % Wash is available in in a 16 oz ( 454 g ) bottle , NDC 63629 - 2032 - 1 .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , however such exposure should be minimized .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN Manufactured by : Trinity Pharmaceuticals , LLC 2255 Glades Road , Suite 324 A , Boca Raton , FL 33431 TrinityPharmallc . com Sodium Sulfacet / Sulfur 9 % / 4 . 5 % Wash # 16 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
