Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 0 . 5 % Purpose Anti - itch cream Uses • • temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • • eczema • • insect bites • • poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac • • soaps • • detergents • • cosmetics • • jewelry • • seborrheic dermatitis • • psoriasis • • external genital and anal itching • • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • • in the eyes • • by putting this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Ask a doctor before use if you have • • a vaginal discharge • • rectal bleeding • • diaper rash When using this product consult a doctor before exceeding recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition gets worse • • condition persists for more than 7 days • • condition clears up and occurs again within a few days .
Do not begin to use any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age : do not use .
consult a doctor For external anal itching : • • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • • To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • • store at room temperature • • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis , cetostearyl alcohol , citric acid , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cetearyl sulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 4 g Tube Carton Itch and Rash Relief Sensitive Skin Hydrocortisone ½ % Cream Antipruritic ( Anti - Itch ) With Aloe NET WT 1 oz ( 28 . 4 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
