CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYPharmacodynamicsThe antidepressant , antiobsessive compulsive , and antibulimic actions of fluoxetine are presumed to be linked to its inhibition of CNS neuronal uptake of serotonin .
Studies at clinically relevant doses in man have demonstrated that fluoxetine blocks the uptake of serotonin into human platelets .
Studies in animals also suggest that fluoxetine is a much more potent uptake inhibitor of serotonin than of norepinephrine .
Antagonism of muscarinic , histaminergic , and α1 – adrenergic receptors has been hypothesized to be associated with various anticholinergic , sedative , and cardiovascular effects of classical tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) drugs .
Fluoxetine binds to these and other membrane receptors from brain tissue much less potently in vitro than do the tricyclic drugs .
Absorption , Distribution , Metabolism , and ExcretionSystemic bioavailability — In man , following a single oral 40 – mg dose , peak plasma concentrations of fluoxetine from 15 to 55 ng / mL are observed after 6 to 8 hours .
The Pulvule , oral solution , and Prozac Weekly capsule dosage forms of fluoxetine are bioequivalent .
Food does not appear to affect the systemic bioavailability of fluoxetine , although it may delay its absorption by 1 to 2 hours , which is probably not clinically significant .
Thus , fluoxetine may be administered with or without food .
Prozac Weekly capsules , a delayed – release formulation , contain enteric – coated pellets that resist dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5 . 5 .
The enteric coating delays the onset of absorption of fluoxetine 1 to 2 hours relative to the immediate – release formulations .
Protein binding — Over the concentration range from 200 to 1000 ng / mL , approximately 94 . 5 % of fluoxetine is bound in vitro to human serum proteins , including albumin and α1 – glycoprotein .
The interaction between fluoxetine and other highly protein – bound drugs has not been fully evaluated , but may be important ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Enantiomers — Fluoxetine is a racemic mixture ( 50 / 50 ) of R – fluoxetine and S – fluoxetine enantiomers .
In animal models , both enantiomers are specific and potent serotonin uptake inhibitors with essentially equivalent pharmacologic activity .
The S – fluoxetine enantiomer is eliminated more slowly and is the predominant enantiomer present in plasma at steady state .
Metabolism — Fluoxetine is extensively metabolized in the liver to norfluoxetine and a number of other unidentified metabolites .
The only identified active metabolite , norfluoxetine , is formed by demethylation of fluoxetine .
In animal models , S – norfluoxetine is a potent and selective inhibitor of serotonin uptake and has activity essentially equivalent to R – or S – fluoxetine .
R – norfluoxetine is significantly less potent than the parent drug in the inhibition of serotonin uptake .
The primary route of elimination appears to be hepatic metabolism to inactive metabolites excreted by the kidney .
Clinical issues related to metabolism / elimination — The complexity of the metabolism of fluoxetine has several consequences that may potentially affect fluoxetine ’ s clinical use .
Variability in metabolism — A subset ( about 7 % ) of the population has reduced activity of the drug metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) .
Such individuals are referred to as “ poor metabolizers ” of drugs such as debrisoquin , dextromethorphan , and the TCAs .
In a study involving labeled and unlabeled enantiomers administered as a racemate , these individuals metabolized S – fluoxetine at a slower rate and thus achieved higher concentrations of S – fluoxetine .
Consequently , concentrations of S – norfluoxetine at steady state were lower .
The metabolism of R – fluoxetine in these poor metabolizers appears normal .
When compared with normal metabolizers , the total sum at steady state of the plasma concentrations of the 4 active enantiomers was not significantly greater among poor metabolizers .
Thus , the net pharmacodynamic activities were essentially the same .
Alternative , nonsaturable pathways ( non – 2D6 ) also contribute to the metabolism of fluoxetine .
This explains how fluoxetine achieves a steady – state concentration rather than increasing without limit .
Because fluoxetine ’ s metabolism , like that of a number of other compounds including TCAs and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , involves the CYP2D6 system , concomitant therapy with drugs also metabolized by this enzyme system ( such as the TCAs ) may lead to drug interactions ( see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Accumulation and slow elimination — The relatively slow elimination of fluoxetine ( elimination half – life of 1 to 3 days after acute administration and 4 to 6 days after chronic administration ) and its active metabolite , norfluoxetine ( elimination half – life of 4 to 16 days after acute and chronic administration ) , leads to significant accumulation of these active species in chronic use and delayed attainment of steady state , even when a fixed dose is used .
After 30 days of dosing at 40 mg / day , plasma concentrations of fluoxetine in the range of 91 to 302 ng / mL and norfluoxetine in the range of 72 to 258 ng / mL have been observed .
Plasma concentrations of fluoxetine were higher than those predicted by single – dose studies , because fluoxetine ’ s metabolism is not proportional to dose .
Norfluoxetine , however , appears to have linear pharmacokinetics .
Its mean terminal half – life after a single dose was 8 . 6 days and after multiple dosing was 9 . 3 days .
Steady – state levels after prolonged dosing are similar to levels seen at 4 to 5 weeks .
The long elimination half – lives of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine assure that , even when dosing is stopped , active drug substance will persist in the body for weeks ( primarily depending on individual patient characteristics , previous dosing regimen , and length of previous therapy at discontinuation ) .
This is of potential consequence when drug discontinuation is required or when drugs are prescribed that might interact with fluoxetine and norfluoxetine following the discontinuation of Prozac .
Weekly dosing — Administration of Prozac Weekly once weekly results in increased fluctuation between peak and trough concentrations of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine compared with once – daily dosing [ for fluoxetine : 24 % ( daily ) to 164 % ( weekly ) and for norfluoxetine : 17 % ( daily ) to 43 % ( weekly ) ] .
Plasma concentrations may not necessarily be predictive of clinical response .
Peak concentrations from once – weekly doses of Prozac Weekly capsules of fluoxetine are in the range of the average concentration for 20 – mg once – daily dosing .
Average trough concentrations are 76 % lower for fluoxetine and 47 % lower for norfluoxetine than the concentrations maintained by 20 – mg once – daily dosing .
Average steady – state concentrations of either once – daily or once – weekly dosing are in relative proportion to the total dose administered .
Average steady – state fluoxetine concentrations are approximately 50 % lower following the once – weekly regimen compared with the once – daily regimen .
Cmax for fluoxetine following the 90 – mg dose was approximately 1 . 7 – fold higher than the Cmax value for the established 20 – mg once – daily regimen following transition the next day to the once – weekly regimen .
In contrast , when the first 90 – mg once – weekly dose and the last 20 – mg once – daily dose were separated by 1 week , Cmax values were similar .
Also , there was a transient increase in the average steady – state concentrations of fluoxetine observed following transition the next day to the once – weekly regimen .
From a pharmacokinetic perspective , it may be better to separate the first 90 – mg weekly dose and the last 20 – mg once – daily dose by 1 week ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Liver disease — As might be predicted from its primary site of metabolism , liver impairment can affect the elimination of fluoxetine .
The elimination half – life of fluoxetine was prolonged in a study of cirrhotic patients , with a mean of 7 . 6 days compared with the range of 2 to 3 days seen in subjects without liver disease ; norfluoxetine elimination was also delayed , with a mean duration of 12 days for cirrhotic patients compared with the range of 7 to 9 days in normal subjects .
This suggests that the use of fluoxetine in patients with liver disease must be approached with caution .
If fluoxetine is administered to patients with liver disease , a lower or less frequent dose should be used ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Renal disease — In depressed patients on dialysis ( N = 12 ) , fluoxetine administered as 20 mg once daily for 2 months produced steady – state fluoxetine and norfluoxetine plasma concentrations comparable with those seen in patients with normal renal function .
While the possibility exists that renally excreted metabolites of fluoxetine may accumulate to higher levels in patients with severe renal dysfunction , use of a lower or less frequent dose is not routinely necessary in renally impaired patients ( see Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness under PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
AgeGeriatric pharmacokinetics — The disposition of single doses of fluoxetine in healthy elderly subjects ( > 65 years of age ) did not differ significantly from that in younger normal subjects .
However , given the long half – life and nonlinear disposition of the drug , a single – dose study is not adequate to rule out the possibility of altered pharmacokinetics in the elderly , particularly if they have systemic illness or are receiving multiple drugs for concomitant diseases .
The effects of age upon the metabolism of fluoxetine have been investigated in 260 elderly but otherwise healthy depressed patients ( ≥ 60 years of age ) who received 20 mg fluoxetine for 6 weeks .
Combined fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine plasma concentrations were 209 . 3 ± 85 . 7 ng / mL at the end of 6 weeks .
No unusual age – associated pattern of adverse events was observed in those elderly patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGEMajor Depressive DisorderProzac is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder .
Adult — The efficacy of Prozac was established in 5 – and 6 – week trials with depressed adult and geriatric outpatients ( ≥ 18 years of age ) whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM – III ( currently DSM – IV ) category of major depressive disorder ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
A major depressive episode ( DSM – IV ) implies a prominent and relatively persistent ( nearly every day for at least 2 weeks ) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning , and includes at least 5 of the following 9 symptoms : depressed mood , loss of interest in usual activities , significant change in weight and / or appetite , insomnia or hypersomnia , psychomotor agitation or retardation , increased fatigue , feelings of guilt or worthlessness , slowed thinking or impaired concentration , a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation .
The effects of Prozac in hospitalized depressed patients have not been adequately studied .
The efficacy of Prozac 20 mg once daily in maintaining a response in major depressive disorder for up to 38 weeks following 12 weeks of open – label acute treatment ( 50 weeks total ) was demonstrated in a placebo – controlled trial .
The efficacy of Prozac Weekly once weekly in maintaining a response in major depressive disorder has been demonstrated in a placebo – controlled trial for up to 25 weeks following open – label acute treatment of 13 weeks with Prozac 20 mg daily for a total treatment of 38 weeks .
However , it is unknown whether or not Prozac Weekly given on a once – weekly basis provides the same level of protection from relapse as that provided by Prozac 20 mg daily ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Pediatric ( children and adolescents ) — The efficacy of Prozac in children and adolescents was established in two 8 – to 9 – week placebo – controlled clinical trials in depressed outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM – III – R or DSM – IV category of major depressive disorder ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
The usefulness of the drug in adult and pediatric patients receiving fluoxetine for extended periods should be reevaluated periodically .
Obsessive Compulsive DisorderAdult — Prozac is indicated for the treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , as defined in the DSM – III – R ; i . e . , the obsessions or compulsions cause marked distress , are time – consuming , or significantly interfere with social or occupational functioning .
The efficacy of Prozac was established in 13 – week trials with obsessive compulsive outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM – III – R category of OCD ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
OCD is characterized by recurrent and persistent ideas , thoughts , impulses , or images ( obsessions ) that are ego – dystonic and / or repetitive , purposeful , and intentional behaviors ( compulsions ) that are recognized by the person as excessive or unreasonable .
The effectiveness of Prozac in long – term use , i . e . , for more than 13 weeks , has not been systematically evaluated in placebo – controlled trials .
Therefore , the physician who elects to use Prozac for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long – term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pediatric ( children and adolescents ) — The efficacy of Prozac in children and adolescents was established in a 13 – week , dose titration , clinical trial in patients with OCD , as defined in DSM – IV ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Bulimia NervosaProzac is indicated for the treatment of binge – eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe bulimia nervosa .
The efficacy of Prozac was established in 8 – to 16 – week trials for adult outpatients with moderate to severe bulimia nervosa , i . e . , at least 3 bulimic episodes per week for 6 months ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
The efficacy of Prozac 60 mg / day in maintaining a response , in patients with bulimia who responded during an 8 – week acute treatment phase while taking Prozac 60 mg / day and were then observed for relapse during a period of up to 52 weeks , was demonstrated in a placebo – controlled trial ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Nevertheless , the physician who elects to use Prozac for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long – term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Panic DisorderProzac is indicated for the treatment of panic disorder , with or without agoraphobia , as defined in DSM – IV .
Panic disorder is characterized by the occurrence of unexpected panic attacks , and associated concern about having additional attacks , worry about the implications or consequences of the attacks , and / or a significant change in behavior related to the attacks .
The efficacy of Prozac was established in two 12 – week clinical trials in patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM – IV category of panic disorder ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Panic disorder ( DSM – IV ) is characterized by recurrent , unexpected panic attacks , i . e . , a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which 4 or more of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes : 1 ) palpitations , pounding heart , or accelerated heart rate ; 2 ) sweating ; 3 ) trembling or shaking ; 4 ) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering ; 5 ) feeling of choking ; 6 ) chest pain or discomfort ; 7 ) nausea or abdominal distress ; 8 ) feeling dizzy , unsteady , lightheaded , or faint ; 9 ) fear of losing control ; 10 ) fear of dying ; 11 ) paresthesias ( numbness or tingling sensations ) ; 12 ) chills or hot flashes .
The effectiveness of Prozac in long – term use , i . e . , for more than 12 weeks , has not been established in placebo – controlled trials .
Therefore , the physician who elects to use Prozac for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long – term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONSProzac is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to it .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors — There have been reports of serious , sometimes fatal , reactions ( including hyperthermia , rigidity , myoclonus , autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs , and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma ) in patients receiving fluoxetine in combination with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , and in patients who have recently discontinued fluoxetine and are then started on an MAOI .
Some cases presented with features resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome .
Therefore , Prozac should not be used in combination with an MAOI , or within a minimum of 14 days of discontinuing therapy with an MAOI .
Since fluoxetine and its major metabolite have very long elimination half – lives , at least 5 weeks [ perhaps longer , especially if fluoxetine has been prescribed chronically and / or at higher doses ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) ] should be allowed after stopping Prozac before starting an MAOI .
Pimozide — Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with Prozac or within a minimum of 5 weeks after Prozac has been discontinued ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGSClinical Worsening and Suicide Risk — Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long – standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short – term placebo – controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 – 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short – term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo – controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short – term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo – controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short – term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug versus placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug – placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer – term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment , medication should be tapered , as rapidly as is feasible , but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Discontinuation of Treatment with Prozac , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of Prozac ) .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for Prozac should be written for the smallest quantity of capsules , or liquid consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
It should be noted that Prozac is approved in the pediatric population only for major depressive disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder — A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that Prozac is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Rash and Possibly Allergic Events — In US fluoxetine clinical trials as of May 8 , 1995 , 7 % of 10 , 782 patients developed various types of rashes and / or urticaria .
Among the cases of rash and / or urticaria reported in premarketing clinical trials , almost a third were withdrawn from treatment because of the rash and / or systemic signs or symptoms associated with the rash .
Clinical findings reported in association with rash include fever , leukocytosis , arthralgias , edema , carpal tunnel syndrome , respiratory distress , lymphadenopathy , proteinuria , and mild transaminase elevation .
Most patients improved promptly with discontinuation of fluoxetine and / or adjunctive treatment with antihistamines or steroids , and all patients experiencing these events were reported to recover completely .
In premarketing clinical trials , 2 patients are known to have developed a serious cutaneous systemic illness .
In neither patient was there an unequivocal diagnosis , but one was considered to have a leukocytoclastic vasculitis , and the other , a severe desquamating syndrome that was considered variously to be a vasculitis or erythema multiforme .
Other patients have had systemic syndromes suggestive of serum sickness .
Since the introduction of Prozac , systemic events , possibly related to vasculitis and including lupus – like syndrome , have developed in patients with rash .
Although these events are rare , they may be serious , involving the lung , kidney , or liver .
Death has been reported to occur in association with these systemic events .
Anaphylactoid events , including bronchospasm , angioedema , laryngospasm , and urticaria alone and in combination , have been reported .
Pulmonary events , including inflammatory processes of varying histopathology and / or fibrosis , have been reported rarely .
These events have occurred with dyspnea as the only preceding symptom .
Whether these systemic events and rash have a common underlying cause or are due to different etiologies or pathogenic processes is not known .
Furthermore , a specific underlying immunologic basis for these events has not been identified .
Upon the appearance of rash or of other possibly allergic phenomena for which an alternative etiology cannot be identified , Prozac should be discontinued .
Serotonin Syndrome — The development of a potentially life – threatening serotonin syndrome may occur with SNRIs and SSRIs , including Prozac treatment , particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( including triptans ) and with drugs which impair metabolism of serotonin ( including MAOIs ) .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
The concomitant use of Prozac with MAOIs intended to treat depression is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ) .
If concomitant treatment Prozac with a 5 – hydroxytryptamine receptor agonist ( triptan ) is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ) .
The concomitant use of Prozac with serotonin precursors ( such as tryptophan ) is not recommended ( see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Potential Interaction with Thioridazine — In a study of 19 healthy male subjects , which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin , a single 25 – mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2 . 4 – fold higher Cmax and a 4 . 5 – fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators .
The rate of debrisoquin hydroxylation is felt to depend on the level of CYP2D6 isozyme activity .
Thus , this study suggests that drugs which inhibit CYP2D6 , such as certain SSRIs , including fluoxetine , will produce elevated plasma levels of thioridazine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Thioridazine administration produces a dose – related prolongation of the QTc interval , which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias , such as torsades de pointes – type arrhythmias , and sudden death .
This risk is expected to increase with fluoxetine – induced inhibition of thioridazine metabolism ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralAbnormal Bleeding — SSRIs and SNRIs , including fluoxetine , may increase the risk of bleeding events .
Concomitant use of aspirin , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , warfarin , and other anti - coagulants may add to this risk .
Case reports and epidemiological studies ( case - control and cohort design ) have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding .
Bleeding events related to SSRIs and SNRIs use have ranged from ecchymoses , hematomas , epistaxis , and petechiae to life - threatening hemorrhages .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of fluoxetine and NSAIDs , aspirin , or other drugs that affect coagulation ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Anxiety and Insomnia — In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder , 12 % to 16 % of patients treated with Prozac and 7 % to 9 % of patients treated with placebo reported anxiety , nervousness , or insomnia .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for OCD , insomnia was reported in 28 % of patients treated with Prozac and in 22 % of patients treated with placebo .
Anxiety was reported in 14 % of patients treated with Prozac and in 7 % of patients treated with placebo .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for bulimia nervosa , insomnia was reported in 33 % of patients treated with Prozac 60 mg , and 13 % of patients treated with placebo .
Anxiety and nervousness were reported , respectively , in 15 % and 11 % of patients treated with Prozac 60 mg and in 9 % and 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
Among the most common adverse events associated with discontinuation ( incidence at least twice that for placebo and at least 1 % for Prozac in clinical trials collecting only a primary event associated with discontinuation ) in US placebo – controlled fluoxetine clinical trials were anxiety ( 2 % in OCD ) , insomnia ( 1 % in combined indications and 2 % in bulimia ) , and nervousness ( 1 % in major depressive disorder ) ( see Table 4 ) .
Altered Appetite and Weight — Significant weight loss , especially in underweight depressed or bulimic patients may be an undesirable result of treatment with Prozac .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder , 11 % of patients treated with Prozac and 2 % of patients treated with placebo reported anorexia ( decreased appetite ) .
Weight loss was reported in 1 . 4 % of patients treated with Prozac and in 0 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
However , only rarely have patients discontinued treatment with Prozac because of anorexia or weight loss ( see also Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for OCD , 17 % of patients treated with Prozac and 10 % of patients treated with placebo reported anorexia ( decreased appetite ) .
One patient discontinued treatment with Prozac because of anorexia ( see also Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for bulimia nervosa , 8 % of patients treated with Prozac 60 mg and 4 % of patients treated with placebo reported anorexia ( decreased appetite ) .
Patients treated with Prozac 60 mg on average lost 0 . 45 kg compared with a gain of 0 . 16 kg by patients treated with placebo in the 16 – week double – blind trial .
Weight change should be monitored during therapy .
Activation of Mania / Hypomania — In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder , mania / hypomania was reported in 0 . 1 % of patients treated with Prozac and 0 . 1 % of patients treated with placebo .
Activation of mania / hypomania has also been reported in a small proportion of patients with Major Affective Disorder treated with other marketed drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder ( see also Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for OCD , mania / hypomania was reported in 0 . 8 % of patients treated with Prozac and no patients treated with placebo .
No patients reported mania / hypomania in US placebo – controlled clinical trials for bulimia .
In all US Prozac clinical trials as of May 8 , 1995 , 0 . 7 % of 10 , 782 patients reported mania / hypomania ( see also Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hyponatremia — Hyponatremia may occur as a result of treatment with SSRIs and SNRIs , including Prozac .
In many cases , this hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) .
Cases with serum sodium lower than 110 mmol / L have been reported and appeared to be reversible when Prozac was discontinued .
Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with SSRIs and SNRIs .
Also , patients taking diuretics or who are otherwise volume depleted may be at greater risk ( see Geriatric Use ) .
Discontinuation of Prozac should be considered in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia and appropriate medical intervention should be instituted .
Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache , difficulty concentrating , memory impairment , confusion , weakness , and unsteadiness , which may lead to falls .
More severe and / or acute cases have been associated with hallucination , syncope , seizure , coma , respiratory arrest , and death .
Seizures — In US placebo – controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder , convulsions ( or events described as possibly having been seizures ) were reported in 0 . 1 % of patients treated with Prozac and 0 . 2 % of patients treated with placebo .
No patients reported convulsions in US placebo – controlled clinical trials for either OCD or bulimia .
In all US Prozac clinical trials as of May 8 , 1995 , 0 . 2 % of 10 , 782 patients reported convulsions .
The percentage appears to be similar to that associated with other marketed drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder .
Prozac should be introduced with care in patients with a history of seizures .
The Long Elimination Half – Lives of Fluoxetine and its Metabolites — Because of the long elimination half – lives of the parent drug and its major active metabolite , changes in dose will not be fully reflected in plasma for several weeks , affecting both strategies for titration to final dose and withdrawal from treatment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness — Clinical experience with Prozac in patients with concomitant systemic illness is limited .
Caution is advisable in using Prozac in patients with diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses .
Fluoxetine has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease .
Patients with these diagnoses were systematically excluded from clinical studies during the product ’ s premarket testing .
However , the electrocardiograms of 312 patients who received Prozac in double – blind trials were retrospectively evaluated ; no conduction abnormalities that resulted in heart block were observed .
The mean heart rate was reduced by approximately 3 beats / min .
In subjects with cirrhosis of the liver , the clearances of fluoxetine and its active metabolite , norfluoxetine , were decreased , thus increasing the elimination half – lives of these substances .
A lower or less frequent dose should be used in patients with cirrhosis .
Studies in depressed patients on dialysis did not reveal excessive accumulation of fluoxetine or norfluoxetine in plasma ( see Renal disease under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Use of a lower or less frequent dose for renally impaired patients is not routinely necessary ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In patients with diabetes , Prozac may alter glycemic control .
Hypoglycemia has occurred during therapy with Prozac , and hyperglycemia has developed following discontinuation of the drug .
As is true with many other types of medication when taken concurrently by patients with diabetes , insulin and / or oral hypoglycemic dosage may need to be adjusted when therapy with Prozac is instituted or discontinued .
Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance — Any psychoactive drug may impair judgment , thinking , or motor skills , and patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery , including automobiles , until they are reasonably certain that the drug treatment does not affect them adversely .
Discontinuation of Treatment with Prozac — During marketing of Prozac and other SSRIs and SNRIs ( serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ) , there have been spontaneous reports of adverse events occurring upon discontinuation of these drugs , particularly when abrupt , including the following : dysphoric mood , irritability , agitation , dizziness , sensory disturbances ( e . g . , paresthesias such as electric shock sensations ) , anxiety , confusion , headache , lethargy , emotional lability , insomnia , and hypomania .
While these events are generally self – limiting , there have been reports of serious discontinuation symptoms .
Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment with Prozac .
A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible .
If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment , then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered .
Subsequently , the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate .
Plasma fluoxetine and norfluoxetine concentration decrease gradually at the conclusion of therapy , which may minimize the risk of discontinuation symptoms with this drug ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for PatientsPrescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with Prozac and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about “ Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions ” is available for Prozac .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking Prozac .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk — Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day – to – day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ’ s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
Serotonin Syndrome — Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the concomitant use of Prozac and triptans , tramadol or other serotonergic agents .
Because Prozac may impair judgment , thinking , or motor skills , patients should be advised to avoid driving a car or operating hazardous machinery until they are reasonably certain that their performance is not affected .
Patients should be advised to inform their physician if they are taking or plan to take any prescription or over – the – counter drugs , or alcohol .
Abnormal Bleeding - Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of fluoxetine and NSAIDs , aspirin , warfarin , or other drugs that affect coagulation since combined use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and these agents have been associated with an increased risk of bleeding ( see PRECAUTIONS , Abnormal Bleeding ) .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they are breast – feeding an infant .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they develop a rash or hives .
Laboratory TestsThere are no specific laboratory tests recommended .
Drug InteractionsAs with all drugs , the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms ( e . g . , pharmacodynamic , pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement , etc . ) is a possibility ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 — Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6 , and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer .
Coadministration of fluoxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 , including certain antidepressants ( e . g . , TCAs ) , antipsychotics ( e . g . , phenothiazines and most atypicals ) , and antiarrhythmics ( e . g . , propafenone , flecainide , and others ) should be approached with caution .
Therapy with medications that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP2D6 system and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index ( see list below ) should be initiated at the low end of the dose range if a patient is receiving fluoxetine concurrently or has taken it in the previous 5 weeks .
Thus , his / her dosing requirements resemble those of poor metabolizers .
If fluoxetine is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug metabolized by CYP2D6 , the need for decreased dose of the original medication should be considered .
Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index represent the greatest concern ( e . g . , flecainide , propafenone , vinblastine , and TCAs ) .
Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine , thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 — In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine ( a CYP3A4 substrate ) , no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine .
In addition , in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole , a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity , to be at least 100 times more potent than fluoxetine or norfluoxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme , including astemizole , cisapride , and midazolam .
These data indicate that fluoxetine ’ s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance .
CNS active drugs — The risk of using Prozac in combination with other CNS active drugs has not been systematically evaluated .
Nonetheless , caution is advised if the concomitant administration of Prozac and such drugs is required .
In evaluating individual cases , consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs , using conservative titration schedules , and monitoring of clinical status ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Anticonvulsants — Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment .
Antipsychotics — Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and / or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics .
Elevation of blood levels of haloperidol and clozapine has been observed in patients receiving concomitant fluoxetine .
Clinical studies of pimozide with other antidepressants demonstrate an increase in drug interaction or QTc prolongation .
While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted , the potential for drug interactions or QTc prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and Prozac .
Concomitant use of Prozac and pimozide is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For thioridazine , see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .
Benzodiazepines — The half – life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels .
Lithium — There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine .
Cases of lithium toxicity and increased serotonergic effects have been reported .
Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly .
Tryptophan — Five patients receiving Prozac in combination with tryptophan experienced adverse reactions , including agitation , restlessness , and gastrointestinal distress .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors — See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder — In 2 studies , previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2 – to 10 – fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination .
This influence may persist for 3 weeks or longer after fluoxetine is discontinued .
Thus , the dose of TCA may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 under Drug Interactions ) .
Serotonergic drugs — Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs , including Prozac , and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when Prozac is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , such as triptans , linezolid ( an antibiotic which is a reversible non – selective MAOI ) , lithium , tramadol , or St . John ’ s Wort ( see Serotonin Syndrome under WARNINGS ) .
The concomitant use of Prozac with other SSRIs , SNRIs or tryptophan is not recommended ( see Tryptophan ) .
Triptans — There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan .
If concomitant treatment of Prozac with a triptan is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see Serotonin Syndrome under WARNINGS ) .
Potential effects of coadministration of drugs tightly bound to plasma proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma protein , the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein ( e . g . , Coumadin , digitoxin ) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect .
Conversely , adverse effects may result from displacement of protein – bound fluoxetine by other tightly – bound drugs ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Drugs that interfere with hemostasis ( e . g . , NSAIDs , Aspirin , Warfarin ) — Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis .
Epidemiological studies of the case – control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding .
Altered anticoagulant effects , including increased bleeding , have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin .
Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued .
Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) — There are no clinical studies establishing the benefit of the combined use of ECT and fluoxetine .
There have been rare reports of prolonged seizures in patients on fluoxetine receiving ECT treatment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThere is no evidence of carcinogenicity or mutagenicity from in vitro or animal studies .
Impairment of fertility in adult animals at doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) was not observed .
Carcinogenicity — The dietary administration of fluoxetine to rats and mice for 2 years at doses of up to 10 and 12 mg / kg / day , respectively [ approximately 1 . 2 and 0 . 7 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 80 mg on a mg / m2 basis ] , produced no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Mutagenicity — Fluoxetine and norfluoxetine have been shown to have no genotoxic effects based on the following assays : bacterial mutation assay , DNA repair assay in cultured rat hepatocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay in Chinese hamster bone marrow cells .
Impairment of fertility — Two fertility studies conducted in adult rats at doses of up to 7 . 5 and 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 9 and 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) indicated that fluoxetine had no adverse effects on fertility ( see Pediatric Use ) .
PregnancyPregnancy Category CIn embryo – fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , there was no evidence of teratogenicity following administration of up to 12 . 5 and 15 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 1 . 5 and 3 . 6 times , respectively , the MRHD of 80 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) throughout organogenesis .
However , in rat reproduction studies , an increase in stillborn pups , a decrease in pup weight , and an increase in pup deaths during the first 7 days postpartum occurred following maternal exposure to 12 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during gestation or 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during gestation and lactation .
There was no evidence of developmental neurotoxicity in the surviving offspring of rats treated with 12 mg / kg / day during gestation .
The no – effect dose for rat pup mortality was 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Prozac should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic EffectsNeonates exposed to Prozac and other SSRIs or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization , respiratory support , and tube feeding .
Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery .
Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress , cyanosis , apnea , seizures , temperature instability , feeding difficulty , vomiting , hypoglycemia , hypotonia , hypertonia , hyperreflexia , tremor , jitteriness , irritability , and constant crying .
These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or , possibly , a drug discontinuation syndrome .
It should be noted that , in some cases , the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome ( see Monoamine oxidase inhibitors under CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Infants exposed to SSRIs in late pregnancy may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn ( PPHN ) .
PPHN occurs in 1 – 2 per 1000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality .
In a retrospective case – control study of 377 women whose infants were born with PPHN and 836 women whose infants were born healthy , the risk for developing PPHN was approximately six – fold higher for infants exposed to SSRIs after the 20 th week of gestation compared to infants who had not been exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy .
There is currently no corroborative evidence regarding the risk for PPHN following exposure to SSRIs in pregnancy ; this is the first study that has investigated the potential risk .
The study did not include enough cases with exposure to individual SSRIs to determine if all SSRIs posed similar levels of PPHN risk .
When treating a pregnant woman with Prozac during the third trimester , the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks and benefits of treatment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Physicians should note that in a prospective longitudinal study of 201 women with a history of major depression who were euthymic at the beginning of pregnancy , women who discontinued antidepressant medication during pregnancy were more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continued antidepressant medication .
Labor and DeliveryThe effect of Prozac on labor and delivery in humans is unknown .
However , because fluoxetine crosses the placenta and because of the possibility that fluoxetine may have adverse effects on the newborn , fluoxetine should be used during labor and delivery only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersBecause Prozac is excreted in human milk , nursing while on Prozac is not recommended .
In one breast – milk sample , the concentration of fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine was 70 . 4 ng / mL .
The concentration in the mother ’ s plasma was 295 . 0 ng / mL .
No adverse effects on the infant were reported .
In another case , an infant nursed by a mother on Prozac developed crying , sleep disturbance , vomiting , and watery stools .
The infant ’ s plasma drug levels were 340 ng / mL of fluoxetine and 208 ng / mL of norfluoxetine on the second day of feeding .
Pediatric UseThe efficacy of Prozac for the treatment of major depressive disorder was demonstrated in two 8 – to 9 – week placebo – controlled clinical trials with 315 pediatric outpatients ages 8 to ≤ 18 ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONSMultiple doses of Prozac had been administered to 10 , 782 patients with various diagnoses in US clinical trials as of May 8 , 1995 .
In addition , there have been 425 patients administered Prozac in panic clinical trials .
Adverse events were recorded by clinical investigators using descriptive terminology of their own choosing .
Consequently , it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events without first grouping similar types of events into a limited ( i . e . , reduced ) number of standardized event categories .
In the tables and tabulations that follow , COSTART Dictionary terminology has been used to classify reported adverse events .
The stated frequencies represent the proportion of individuals who experienced , at least once , a treatment – emergent adverse event of the type listed .
An event was considered treatment – emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation .
It is important to emphasize that events reported during therapy were not necessarily caused by it .
The prescriber should be aware that the figures in the tables and tabulations cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments , uses , and investigators .
The cited figures , however , do provide the prescribing physician with some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the side effect incidence rate in the population studied .
Incidence in major depressive disorder , OCD , bulimia , and panic disorder placebo – controlled clinical trials ( excluding data from extensions of trials ) — Table 2 enumerates the most common treatment – emergent adverse events associated with the use of Prozac ( incidence of at least 5 % for Prozac and at least twice that for placebo within at least 1 of the indications ) for the treatment of major depressive disorder , OCD , and bulimia in US controlled clinical trials and panic disorder in US plus non – US controlled trials .
Table 3 enumerates treatment – emergent adverse events that occurred in 2 % or more patients treated with Prozac and with incidence greater than placebo who participated in US major depressive disorder , OCD , and bulimia controlled clinical trials and US plus non – US panic disorder controlled clinical trials .
Table 3 provides combined data for the pool of studies that are provided separately by indication in Table 2 .
Other adverse events in pediatric patients ( children and adolescents ) — Treatment – emergent adverse events were collected in 322 pediatric patients ( 180 fluoxetine – treated , 142 placebo – treated ) .
The overall profile of adverse events was generally similar to that seen in adult studies , as shown in Tables 2 and 3 .
However , the following adverse events ( excluding those which appear in the body or footnotes of Tables 2 and 3 and those for which the COSTART terms were uninformative or misleading ) were reported at an incidence of at least 2 % for fluoxetine and greater than placebo : thirst , hyperkinesia , agitation , personality disorder , epistaxis , urinary frequency , and menorrhagia .
The most common adverse event ( incidence at least 1 % for fluoxetine and greater than placebo ) associated with discontinuation in 3 pediatric placebo – controlled trials ( N = 418 randomized ; 228 fluoxetine – treated ; 190 placebo – treated ) was mania / hypomania ( 1 . 8 % for fluoxetine – treated , 0 % for placebo – treated ) .
In these clinical trials , only a primary event associated with discontinuation was collected .
Events observed in Prozac Weekly clinical trials — Treatment – emergent adverse events in clinical trials with Prozac Weekly were similar to the adverse events reported by patients in clinical trials with Prozac daily .
In a placebo – controlled clinical trial , more patients taking Prozac Weekly reported diarrhea than patients taking placebo ( 10 % versus 3 % , respectively ) or taking Prozac 20 mg daily ( 10 % versus 5 % , respectively ) .
OVERDOSAGEHuman ExperienceWorldwide exposure to fluoxetine hydrochloride is estimated to be over 38 million patients ( circa 1999 ) .
Of the 1578 cases of overdose involving fluoxetine hydrochloride , alone or with other drugs , reported from this population , there were 195 deaths .
Among 633 adult patients who overdosed on fluoxetine hydrochloride alone , 34 resulted in a fatal outcome , 378 completely recovered , and 15 patients experienced sequelae after overdosage , including abnormal accommodation , abnormal gait , confusion , unresponsiveness , nervousness , pulmonary dysfunction , vertigo , tremor , elevated blood pressure , impotence , movement disorder , and hypomania .
The remaining 206 patients had an unknown outcome .
The most common signs and symptoms associated with non – fatal overdosage were seizures , somnolence , nausea , tachycardia , and vomiting .
The largest known ingestion of fluoxetine hydrochloride in adult patients was 8 grams in a patient who took fluoxetine alone and who subsequently recovered .
However , in an adult patient who took fluoxetine alone , an ingestion as low as 520 mg has been associated with lethal outcome , but causality has not been established .
Among pediatric patients ( ages 3 months to 17 years ) , there were 156 cases of overdose involving fluoxetine alone or in combination with other drugs .
Six patients died , 127 patients completely recovered , 1 patient experienced renal failure , and 22 patients had an unknown outcome .
One of the six fatalities was a 9 – year – old boy who had a history of OCD , Tourette ’ s syndrome with tics , attention deficit disorder , and fetal alcohol syndrome .
He had been receiving 100 mg of fluoxetine daily for 6 months in addition to clonidine , methylphenidate , and promethazine .
Mixed – drug ingestion or other methods of suicide complicated all 6 overdoses in children that resulted in fatalities .
The largest ingestion in pediatric patients was 3 grams which was nonlethal .
Other important adverse events reported with fluoxetine overdose ( single or multiple drugs ) include coma , delirium , ECG abnormalities ( such as QT interval prolongation and ventricular tachycardia , including torsades de pointes – type arrhythmias ) , hypotension , mania , neuroleptic malignant syndrome – like events , pyrexia , stupor , and syncope .
Animal ExperienceStudies in animals do not provide precise or necessarily valid information about the treatment of human overdose .
However , animal experiments can provide useful insights into possible treatment strategies .
The oral median lethal dose in rats and mice was found to be 452 and 248 mg / kg , respectively .
Acute high oral doses produced hyperirritability and convulsions in several animal species .
Among 6 dogs purposely overdosed with oral fluoxetine , 5 experienced grand mal seizures .
Seizures stopped immediately upon the bolus intravenous administration of a standard veterinary dose of diazepam .
In this short – term study , the lowest plasma concentration at which a seizure occurred was only twice the maximum plasma concentration seen in humans taking 80 mg / day , chronically .
In a separate single – dose study , the ECG of dogs given high doses did not reveal prolongation of the PR , QRS , or QT intervals .
Tachycardia and an increase in blood pressure were observed .
Consequently , the value of the ECG in predicting cardiac toxicity is unknown .
Nonetheless , the ECG should ordinarily be monitored in cases of human overdose ( see Management of Overdose ) .
Management of OverdoseTreatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
General supportive and symptomatic measures are also recommended .
Induction of emesis is not recommended .
Gastric lavage with a large – bore orogastric tube with appropriate airway protection , if needed , may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion , or in symptomatic patients .
Activated charcoal should be administered .
Due to the large volume of distribution of this drug , forced diuresis , dialysis , hemoperfusion , and exchange transfusion are unlikely to be of benefit .
No specific antidotes for fluoxetine are known .
A specific caution involves patients who are taking or have recently taken fluoxetine and might ingest excessive quantities of a TCA .
In such a case , accumulation of the parent tricyclic and / or an active metabolite may increase the possibility of clinically significant sequelae and extend the time needed for close medical observation ( see Other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Based on experience in animals , which may not be relevant to humans , fluoxetine – induced seizures that fail to remit spontaneously may respond to diazepam .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug involvement .
The physician should consider contacting a poison control center for additional information on the treatment of any overdose .
Telephone numbers for certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONMajor Depressive DisorderInitial TreatmentAdult — In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine , patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg / day .
Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 , 40 , and 60 mg / day to placebo indicate that 20 mg / day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in major depressive disorder in most cases .
Consequently , a dose of 20 mg / day , administered in the morning , is recommended as the initial dose .
A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed .
Doses above 20 mg / day may be administered on a once – a – day ( morning ) or BID schedule ( i . e . , morning and noon ) and should not exceed a maximum dose of 80 mg / day .
Pediatric ( children and adolescents ) — In the short – term ( 8 to 9 week ) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of major depressive disorder , patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg / day ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 or 20 mg / day .
After 1 week at 10 mg / day , the dose should be increased to 20 mg / day .
However , due to higher plasma levels in lower weight children , the starting and target dose in this group may be 10 mg / day .
A dose increase to 20 mg / day may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed .
All patients — As with other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder , the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer .
As with many other medications , a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment .
A lower or less frequent dosage should also be considered for the elderly ( see Geriatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) , and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications .
Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are not routinely necessary ( see Liver disease and Renal disease under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Maintenance / Continuation / Extended TreatmentIt is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy .
Whether the dose needed to induce remission is identical to the dose needed to maintain and / or sustain euthymia is unknown .
Daily DosingSystematic evaluation of Prozac in adult patients has shown that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 38 weeks following 12 weeks of open – label acute treatment ( 50 weeks total ) at a dose of 20 mg / day ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Weekly DosingSystematic evaluation of Prozac Weekly in adult patients has shown that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 25 weeks with once – weekly dosing following 13 weeks of open – label treatment with Prozac 20 mg once daily .
However , therapeutic equivalence of Prozac Weekly given on a once – weekly basis with Prozac 20 mg given daily for delaying time to relapse has not been established ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Weekly dosing with Prozac Weekly capsules is recommended to be initiated 7 days after the last daily dose of Prozac 20 mg ( see Weekly dosing under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
If satisfactory response is not maintained with Prozac Weekly , consider reestablishing a daily dosing regimen ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant ( TCA ) Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced , and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued ( see Other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder under PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI and initiation of therapy with Prozac .
In addition , at least 5 weeks , perhaps longer , should be allowed after stopping Prozac before starting an MAOI ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Obsessive Compulsive DisorderInitial TreatmentAdult — In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD , patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 , 40 , or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
In 1 of these studies , no dose – response relationship for effectiveness was demonstrated .
Consequently , a dose of 20 mg / day , administered in the morning , is recommended as the initial dose .
Since there was a suggestion of a possible dose – response relationship for effectiveness in the second study , a dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed .
The full therapeutic effect may be delayed until 5 weeks of treatment or longer .
Doses above 20 mg / day may be administered on a once – a – day ( i . e . , morning ) or BID schedule ( i . e . , morning and noon ) .
A dose range of 20 to 60 mg / day is recommended ; however , doses of up to 80 mg / day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD .
The maximum fluoxetine dose should not exceed 80 mg / day .
Pediatric ( children and adolescents ) — In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD , patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg / day ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
In adolescents and higher weight children , treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg / day .
After 2 weeks , the dose should be increased to 20 mg / day .
Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed .
A dose range of 20 to 60 mg / day is recommended .
In lower weight children , treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg / day .
Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed .
A dose range of 20 to 30 mg / day is recommended .
Experience with daily doses greater than 20 mg is very minimal , and there is no experience with doses greater than 60 mg .
All patients — As with the use of Prozac in the treatment of major depressive disorder , a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment .
A lower or less frequent dosage should also be considered for the elderly ( see Geriatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) , and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications .
Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are not routinely necessary ( see Liver disease and Renal disease under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Maintenance / Continuation TreatmentWhile there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue Prozac , OCD is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient .
Although the efficacy of Prozac after 13 weeks has not been documented in controlled trials , adult patients have been continued in therapy under double – blind conditions for up to an additional 6 months without loss of benefit .
However , dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage , and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for treatment .
Bulimia NervosaInitial TreatmentIn the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of bulimia nervosa , patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg , or placebo ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Only the 60 – mg dose was statistically significantly superior to placebo in reducing the frequency of binge – eating and vomiting .
Consequently , the recommended dose is 60 mg / day , administered in the morning .
For some patients it may be advisable to titrate up to this target dose over several days .
Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg / day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia .
As with the use of Prozac in the treatment of major depressive disorder and OCD , a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment .
A lower or less frequent dosage should also be considered for the elderly ( see Geriatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) , and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications .
Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are not routinely necessary ( see Liver disease and Renal disease under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Maintenance / Continuation TreatmentSystematic evaluation of continuing Prozac 60 mg / day for periods of up to 52 weeks in patients with bulimia who have responded while taking Prozac 60 mg / day during an 8 – week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Nevertheless , patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment .
Panic DisorderInitial TreatmentIn the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of panic disorder , patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg / day ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg / day .
After 1 week , the dose should be increased to 20 mg / day .
The most frequently administered dose in the 2 flexible – dose clinical trials was 20 mg / day .
A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed .
Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg / day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with panic disorder .
As with the use of Prozac in other indications , a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment .
A lower or less frequent dosage should also be considered for the elderly ( see Geriatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ) , and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications .
Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are not routinely necessary ( see Liver disease and Renal disease under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness under PRECAUTIONS ) .
Maintenance / Continuation TreatmentWhile there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue Prozac , panic disorder is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient .
Nevertheless , patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment .
Special PopulationsTreatment of Pregnant Women During the Third TrimesterNeonates exposed to Prozac and other SSRIs or SNRIs , late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization , respiratory support , and tube feeding ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
When treating pregnant women with Prozac during the third trimester , the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment .
The physician may consider tapering Prozac in the third trimester .
Discontinuation of Treatment with ProzacSymptoms associated with discontinuation of Prozac and other SSRIs and SNRIs , have been reported ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment .
A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible .
If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment , then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered .
Subsequently , the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate .
Plasma fluoxetine and norfluoxetine concentration decrease gradually at the conclusion of therapy which may minimize the risk of discontinuation symptoms with this drug .
Information for PatientsPrescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with Prozac and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about “ Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions ” is available for Prozac .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking Prozac .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk — Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day – to – day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ’ s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
Serotonin Syndrome — Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the concomitant use of Prozac and triptans , tramadol or other serotonergic agents .
Because Prozac may impair judgment , thinking , or motor skills , patients should be advised to avoid driving a car or operating hazardous machinery until they are reasonably certain that their performance is not affected .
Patients should be advised to inform their physician if they are taking or plan to take any prescription or over – the – counter drugs , or alcohol .
Abnormal Bleeding - Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of fluoxetine and NSAIDs , aspirin , warfarin , or other drugs that affect coagulation since combined use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and these agents have been associated with an increased risk of bleeding ( see PRECAUTIONS , Abnormal Bleeding ) .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they are breast – feeding an infant .
Patients should be advised to notify their physician if they develop a rash or hives .
Laboratory TestsThere are no specific laboratory tests recommended .
Drug InteractionsAs with all drugs , the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms ( e . g . , pharmacodynamic , pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement , etc . ) is a possibility ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 — Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6 , and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer .
Coadministration of fluoxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 , including certain antidepressants ( e . g . , TCAs ) , antipsychotics ( e . g . , phenothiazines and most atypicals ) , and antiarrhythmics ( e . g . , propafenone , flecainide , and others ) should be approached with caution .
Therapy with medications that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP2D6 system and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index ( see list below ) should be initiated at the low end of the dose range if a patient is receiving fluoxetine concurrently or has taken it in the previous 5 weeks .
Thus , his / her dosing requirements resemble those of poor metabolizers .
If fluoxetine is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug metabolized by CYP2D6 , the need for decreased dose of the original medication should be considered .
Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index represent the greatest concern ( e . g . , flecainide , propafenone , vinblastine , and TCAs ) .
Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine , thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 — In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine ( a CYP3A4 substrate ) , no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine .
In addition , in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole , a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity , to be at least 100 times more potent than fluoxetine or norfluoxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme , including astemizole , cisapride , and midazolam .
These data indicate that fluoxetine ’ s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance .
CNS active drugs — The risk of using Prozac in combination with other CNS active drugs has not been systematically evaluated .
Nonetheless , caution is advised if the concomitant administration of Prozac and such drugs is required .
In evaluating individual cases , consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs , using conservative titration schedules , and monitoring of clinical status ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Anticonvulsants — Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment .
Antipsychotics — Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and / or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics .
Elevation of blood levels of haloperidol and clozapine has been observed in patients receiving concomitant fluoxetine .
Clinical studies of pimozide with other antidepressants demonstrate an increase in drug interaction or QTc prolongation .
While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted , the potential for drug interactions or QTc prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and Prozac .
Concomitant use of Prozac and pimozide is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For thioridazine , see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .
Benzodiazepines — The half – life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels .
Lithium — There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine .
Cases of lithium toxicity and increased serotonergic effects have been reported .
Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly .
Tryptophan — Five patients receiving Prozac in combination with tryptophan experienced adverse reactions , including agitation , restlessness , and gastrointestinal distress .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors — See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder — In 2 studies , previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2 – to 10 – fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination .
This influence may persist for 3 weeks or longer after fluoxetine is discontinued .
Thus , the dose of TCA may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 under Drug Interactions ) .
Serotonergic drugs — Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs , including Prozac , and the potential for serotonin syndrome , caution is advised when Prozac is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , such as triptans , linezolid ( an antibiotic which is a reversible non – selective MAOI ) , lithium , tramadol , or St . John ’ s Wort ( see Serotonin Syndrome under WARNINGS ) .
The concomitant use of Prozac with other SSRIs , SNRIs or tryptophan is not recommended ( see Tryptophan ) .
Triptans — There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan .
If concomitant treatment of Prozac with a triptan is clinically warranted , careful observation of the patient is advised , particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases ( see Serotonin Syndrome under WARNINGS ) .
Potential effects of coadministration of drugs tightly bound to plasma proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma protein , the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein ( e . g . , Coumadin , digitoxin ) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect .
Conversely , adverse effects may result from displacement of protein – bound fluoxetine by other tightly – bound drugs ( see Accumulation and slow elimination under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Drugs that interfere with hemostasis ( e . g . , NSAIDs , Aspirin , Warfarin ) — Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis .
Epidemiological studies of the case – control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding .
Altered anticoagulant effects , including increased bleeding , have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin .
Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued .
Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) — There are no clinical studies establishing the benefit of the combined use of ECT and fluoxetine .
There have been rare reports of prolonged seizures in patients on fluoxetine receiving ECT treatment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThere is no evidence of carcinogenicity or mutagenicity from in vitro or animal studies .
Impairment of fertility in adult animals at doses up to 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) was not observed .
Carcinogenicity — The dietary administration of fluoxetine to rats and mice for 2 years at doses of up to 10 and 12 mg / kg / day , respectively [ approximately 1 . 2 and 0 . 7 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 80 mg on a mg / m2 basis ] , produced no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Mutagenicity — Fluoxetine and norfluoxetine have been shown to have no genotoxic effects based on the following assays : bacterial mutation assay , DNA repair assay in cultured rat hepatocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay in Chinese hamster bone marrow cells .
Impairment of fertility — Two fertility studies conducted in adult rats at doses of up to 7 . 5 and 12 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 9 and 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) indicated that fluoxetine had no adverse effects on fertility ( see Pediatric Use ) .
PregnancyPregnancy Category CIn embryo – fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , there was no evidence of teratogenicity following administration of up to 12 . 5 and 15 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 1 . 5 and 3 . 6 times , respectively , the MRHD of 80 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) throughout organogenesis .
However , in rat reproduction studies , an increase in stillborn pups , a decrease in pup weight , and an increase in pup deaths during the first 7 days postpartum occurred following maternal exposure to 12 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during gestation or 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) during gestation and lactation .
There was no evidence of developmental neurotoxicity in the surviving offspring of rats treated with 12 mg / kg / day during gestation .
The no – effect dose for rat pup mortality was 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Prozac should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic EffectsNeonates exposed to Prozac and other SSRIs or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization , respiratory support , and tube feeding .
Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery .
Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress , cyanosis , apnea , seizures , temperature instability , feeding difficulty , vomiting , hypoglycemia , hypotonia , hypertonia , hyperreflexia , tremor , jitteriness , irritability , and constant crying .
These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or , possibly , a drug discontinuation syndrome .
It should be noted that , in some cases , the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome ( see Monoamine oxidase inhibitors under CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Infants exposed to SSRIs in late pregnancy may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn ( PPHN ) .
PPHN occurs in 1 – 2 per 1000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality .
In a retrospective case – control study of 377 women whose infants were born with PPHN and 836 women whose infants were born healthy , the risk for developing PPHN was approximately six – fold higher for infants exposed to SSRIs after the 20 th week of gestation compared to infants who had not been exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy .
There is currently no corroborative evidence regarding the risk for PPHN following exposure to SSRIs in pregnancy ; this is the first study that has investigated the potential risk .
The study did not include enough cases with exposure to individual SSRIs to determine if all SSRIs posed similar levels of PPHN risk .
When treating a pregnant woman with Prozac during the third trimester , the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks and benefits of treatment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Physicians should note that in a prospective longitudinal study of 201 women with a history of major depression who were euthymic at the beginning of pregnancy , women who discontinued antidepressant medication during pregnancy were more likely to experience a relapse of major depression than women who continued antidepressant medication .
Labor and DeliveryThe effect of Prozac on labor and delivery in humans is unknown .
However , because fluoxetine crosses the placenta and because of the possibility that fluoxetine may have adverse effects on the newborn , fluoxetine should be used during labor and delivery only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersBecause Prozac is excreted in human milk , nursing while on Prozac is not recommended .
In one breast – milk sample , the concentration of fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine was 70 . 4 ng / mL .
The concentration in the mother ’ s plasma was 295 . 0 ng / mL .
No adverse effects on the infant were reported .
In another case , an infant nursed by a mother on Prozac developed crying , sleep disturbance , vomiting , and watery stools .
The infant ’ s plasma drug levels were 340 ng / mL of fluoxetine and 208 ng / mL of norfluoxetine on the second day of feeding .
Pediatric UseThe efficacy of Prozac for the treatment of major depressive disorder was demonstrated in two 8 – to 9 – week placebo – controlled clinical trials with 315 pediatric outpatients ages 8 to ≤ 18 ( see CLINICAL TRIALS ) .
Medication Guide Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with your or your family member ’ s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ’ s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
• Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
• Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic – depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
• How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ’ s healthcare provider for more information .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants . Patient Information revised June 21 , 2007 PV 5083 AMP WARNINGSuicidality and Antidepressant Drugs — Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short – term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of Prozac or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short – term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Prozac is approved for use in pediatric patients with MDD and obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) .
( See WARNINGS , Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients , and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
DESCRIPTION Prozac ® ( fluoxetine capsules , USP and fluoxetine oral solution , USP ) is a psychotropic drug for oral administration .
It is also marketed for the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder ( Sarafem ® , fluoxetine hydrochloride ) .
It is designated ( ± ) - N - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 3 - [ ( α , α , α - trifluoro - p - tolyl ) oxy ] propylamine hydrochloride and has the empirical formula of C17H18F3NO • HCl .
Its molecular weight is 345 . 79 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluoxetine hydrochloride is a white to off – white crystalline solid with a solubility of 14 mg / mL in water .
Each Pulvule ® contains fluoxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 10 mg ( 32 . 3 μmol ) , 20 mg ( 64 . 7 μmol ) , or 40 mg ( 129 . 3 μmol ) of fluoxetine .
The Pulvules also contain starch , gelatin , silicone , titanium dioxide , iron oxide , and other inactive ingredients .
The 10 – and 20 – mg Pulvules also contain FDandC Blue No . 1 , and the 40 – mg Pulvule also contains FDnadC Blue No . 1 and FDandC Yellow No . 6 .
The oral solution contains fluoxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 20 mg / 5 mL ( 64 . 7 μmol ) of fluoxetine .
It also contains alcohol 0 . 23 % , benzoic acid , flavoring agent , glycerin , purified water , and sucrose .
Prozac Weekly ™ capsules , a delayed – release formulation , contain enteric – coated pellets of fluoxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 90 mg ( 291 μmol ) of fluoxetine .
The capsules also contain DandC Yellow No . 10 , FDandC Blue No . 2 , gelatin , hypromellose , hypromellose acetate succinate , sodium lauryl sulfate , sucrose , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide , triethyl citrate , and other inactive ingredients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PROZAC 20 MG Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
