1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % , is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
ACZONE ® Gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
After the skin is gently washed and patted dry , apply approximately a pea - sized amount of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , in a thin layer to the acne affected areas twice daily .
Rub in ACZONE Gel , 5 % , gently and completely .
ACZONE Gel , 5 % , is gritty with visible drug substance particles .
Wash hands after application of ACZONE Gel , 5 % .
If there is no improvement after 12 weeks , treatment with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , should be reassessed .
• Apply twice daily ( 2 ) .
• Apply approximately a pea - sized amount of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , in a thin layer to the acne affected area ( 2 ) .
• If there is no improvement after 12 weeks , treatment with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , should be reassessed ( 2 ) .
• For topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel , 5 % .
Each gram of ACZONE gel contains 50 mg of dapsone in a white to pale yellow gel .
Gel , 5 % ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported .
Discontinue ACZONE gel if signs of methemoglobinemia occur ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hematologic Effects : Some subjects with G6PD deficiency using ACZONE Gel developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis .
( 5 . 2 ) ( 8 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia , with resultant hospitalization , have been reported postmarketing in association with ACZONE Gel , 5 % treatment .
Patients with glucose6phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency or congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia are more susceptible to druginduced methemoglobinemia .
Avoid use of ACZONE Gel , 5 % in those patients with congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may be delayed some hours after exposure .
Initial signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia are characterized by a slate grey cyanosis seen in , e . g . , buccal mucous membranes , lips and nail beds .
Advise patients to discontinue ACZONE Gel , 5 % and seek immediate medical attention in the event of cyanosis .
Dapsone can cause elevated methemoglobin levels particularly in conjunction with methemoglobininducing agents .
5 . 2 Hematologic Effects Oral dapsone treatment has produced dose - related hemolysis and hemolytic anemia .
Individuals with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency are more prone to hemolysis with the use of certain drugs .
G6PD deficiency is most prevalent in populations of African , South Asian , Middle Eastern , and Mediterranean ancestry .
Some subjects with G6PD deficiency using ACZONE Gel developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis .
There was no evidence of clinically relevant hemolysis or anemia in patients treated with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , including patients who were G6PD deficient .
Discontinue ACZONE Gel , 5 % , if signs and symptoms suggestive of hemolytic anemia occur .
Avoid use of ACZONE Gel , 5 % in patients who are taking oral dapsone or antimalarial medications because of the potential for hemolytic reactions .
Combination of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , with trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) may increase the likelihood of hemolysis in patients with G6PD deficiency .
5 . 3 Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy ( motor loss and muscle weakness ) has been reported with oral dapsone treatment .
No events of peripheral neuropathy were observed in clinical trials with topical ACZONE Gel , 5 % treatment .
5 . 4 Skin Skin reactions ( toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , morbilliform and scarlatiniform reactions , bullous and exfoliative dermatitis , erythema nodosum , and urticaria ) have been reported with oral dapsone treatment .
These types of skin reactions were not observed in clinical trials with topical ACZONE Gel , 5 % treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) are oiliness / peeling , dryness and erythema at the application site ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Serious adverse reactions reported in subjects treated with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , during clinical trials included but were not limited to the following : • Nervous system / Psychiatric – Suicide attempt , tonic clonic movements .
• Gastrointestinal – Abdominal pain , severe vomiting , pancreatitis .
• Other – Severe pharyngitis In the clinical trials , a total of 12 out of 4032 subjects were reported to have depression ( 3 of 1660 treated with vehicle and 9 of 2372 treated with ACZONE Gel , 5 % ) .
Psychosis was reported in 2 of 2372 subjects treated with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , and in 0 of 1660 subjects treated with vehicle .
Combined contact sensitization / irritation studies with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , in 253 healthy subjects resulted in at least 3 subjects with moderate erythema .
ACZONE Gel , 5 % , did not induce phototoxicity or photoallergy in human dermal safety studies .
ACZONE Gel , 5 % , was evaluated for 12 weeks in four controlled trials for local cutaneous events in 1819 subjects .
The most common events reported from these studies include oiliness / peeling , dryness , and erythema .
These data are shown by severity in Table 1 below .
Table 1 – Application Site Adverse Reactions by Maximum Severity ACZONE ® ( N = 1819 ) Vehicle ( N = 1660 ) Application Site Event Mild Moderate Severe Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 9 % 5 % < 1 % 9 % 6 % < 1 % Dryness 14 % 3 % < 1 % 14 % 4 % < 1 % Oiliness / Peeling 13 % 6 % < 1 % 15 % 6 % < 1 % The adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 % of subjects in either arm in the four vehicle controlled trials are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 – Adverse Reactions Occurring in at Least 1 % of Subjects ACZONE ® N = 1819 Vehicle N = 1660 Application Site Reaction NOS 18 % 20 % Application Site Dryness 16 % 17 % Application Site Erythema 13 % 14 % Application Site Burning 1 % 2 % Application Site Pruritus 1 % 1 % Pyrexia 1 % 1 % Nasopharyngitis 5 % 6 % Upper Respiratory Tract Inf .
NOS 3 % 3 % Sinusitis NOS 2 % 1 % Influenza 1 % 1 % Pharyngitis 2 % 2 % Cough 2 % 2 % Joint Sprain 1 % 1 % Headache NOS 4 % 4 % NOS = Not otherwise specified One subjects treated with ACZONE Gel in the clinical trials had facial swelling which led to discontinuation of medication .
In addition , 486 subjects were evaluated in a 12 month safety trial .
The adverse event profile in this trial was consistent with that observed in the vehicle - controlled trials .
6 . 2 Experience with Oral Use of Dapsone Although not observed in the clinical trials with ACZONE Gel ( topical dapsone ) serious adverse reactions have been reported with oral use of dapsone , including agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , peripheral neuropathy ( motor loss and muscle weakness ) , and skin reactions ( toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , morbilliform and scarlatiniform reactions , bullous and exfoliative dermatitis , erythema nodosum , and urticaria ) .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of topical dapsone : methemoglobinemia , rash ( including erythematous rash , application site rash ) and swelling of face ( including lip swelling , eye swelling ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) increases the level of dapsone and its metabolites ( 7 . 1 ) .
• Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as ACZONE may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration ( 7 . 2 ) .
7 . 1 Trimethoprim - Sulfamethoxazole A drug - drug interaction study evaluated the effect of the use of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , in combination with double strength ( 160 mg / 800 mg ) trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) .
During co - administration , systemic levels of TMP and SMX were essentially unchanged .
However , levels of dapsone and its metabolites increased in the presence of TMP / SMX .
Systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 12 ) of dapsone and N - acetyl - dapsone ( NAD ) were increased by about 40 % and 20 % respectively in the presence of TMP / SMX .
Notably , systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 12 ) of dapsone hydroxylamine ( DHA ) was more than doubled in the presence of TMP / SMX .
Exposure from the proposed topical dose is about 1 % of that from the 100 mg oral dose , even when co - administered with TMP / SMX .
7 . 2 Topical Benzoyl Peroxide Topical application of ACZONE Gel followed by benzoyl peroxide in subjects with acne vulgaris resulted in a temporary local yellow or orange discoloration of the skin and facial hair ( reported by 7 out of 95 subjects in a clinical study ) with resolution in 4 to 57 days .
7 . 3 Drug Interactions with Oral Dapsone Certain concomitant medications ( such as rifampin , anticonvulsants , St . John ’ s wort ) may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine , a metabolite of dapsone associated with hemolysis .
With oral dapsone treatment , folic acid antagonists such as pyrimethamine have been noted to possibly increase the likelihood of hematologic reactions .
7 . 4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of ACZONE with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides , acetaminophen , acetanilide , aniline dyes , benzocaine , chloroquine , dapsone , naphthalene , nitrates and nitrites , nitrofurantoin , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , pamaquine , paraaminosalicylic acid , phenacetin , phenobarbital , phenytoin , primaquine , and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on ACZONE Gel , 5 % , use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , oral doses of dapsone administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis that resulted in systemic exposures more than 250 times the systemic exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , resulted in embryocidal effects .
When orally administered to rats from the onset of organogenesis through the end of lactation at systemic exposures approximately 400 times the exposure at the MRHD , dapsone resulted in increased stillbirths and decreased pup weight [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Dapsone has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rats and rabbits when administered orally daily to females during organogenesis at dosages of 75 mg / kg / day and 150 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These dosages resulted in systemic exposures that represented approximately 956 times [ rats ] and 289 times [ rabbits ] the systemic exposure observed in human females as a result of use of the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons .
These effects were probably secondary to maternal toxicity .
Dapsone was assessed for effects on perinatal / postnatal pup development and postnatal maternal behavior and function in a study in which dapsone was orally administered to female rats daily beginning on the seventh day of gestation and continuing until the twenty - seventh day postpartum .
Maternal toxicity ( decreased body weight and food consumption ) and developmental effects ( increase in stillborn pups and decreased pup weight ) were seen at a dapsone dose of 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 382 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) .
No effects were observed on the viability , physical development , behavior , learning ability , or reproductive function of surviving pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of topical dapsone in breastmilk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Orally administered dapsone appears in human milk and could result in hemolytic anemia and hyperbilirubinemia especially in infants with G6PD deficiency .
Systemic absorption of dapsone following topical application is minimal relative to oral dapsone administration ; however , it is known that dapsone is present in human milk following administration of oral dapsone .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy was evaluated in 1169 children aged 12 - 17 years old treated with ACZONE Gel , 5 % , in the clinical trials .
The adverse event rate for ACZONE Gel , 5 % , was similar to the vehicle control group .
Safety and efficacy was not studied in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age , therefore ACZONE Gel , 5 % , is not recommended for use in this age group .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
8 . 6 G6PD Deficiency ACZONE Gel , 5 % and vehicle were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , cross - over design clinical trial of 64 subjects with G6PD deficiency and acne vulgaris .
Subjects were Black ( 88 % ) , Asian ( 6 % ) , Hispanic ( 2 % ) or of other racial origin ( 5 % ) .
Blood samples were taken at Baseline , Week 2 , and Week 12 during both vehicle and ACZONE Gel , 5 % treatment periods .
There were 56 out of 64 subjects who had a Week 2 blood draw and applied at least 50 % of treatment applications .
Table 3 contains results from testing of relevant hematology parameters for these two treatment periods .
ACZONE Gel was associated with a 0 . 32 g / dL drop in hemoglobin after two weeks of treatment , but hemoglobin levels generally returned to baseline levels at Week 12 .
Table 3 – Mean Hemoglobin , Bilirubin , and Reticulocyte Levels in Acne Subjects with G6PD Deficiency in ACZONE / Vehicle Cross - Over Study ACZONE ® Vehicle N Mean N Mean Hemoglobin ( g / dL ) Pre - treatment 53 13 . 44 56 13 . 36 2 weeks 53 13 . 12 55 13 . 34 12 weeks 50 13 . 42 50 13 . 37 Bilirubin ( mg / dL ) Pre - treatment 54 0 . 58 56 0 . 55 2 weeks 53 0 . 65 55 0 . 56 12 weeks 50 0 . 61 50 0 . 62 Reticulocytes ( % ) Pre - treatment 53 1 . 30 55 1 . 34 2 weeks 53 1 . 51 55 1 . 34 12 weeks 50 1 . 48 50 1 . 41 There were no changes from baseline in haptoglobin or lactate dehydrogenase during ACZONE or vehicle treatment at either the 2 - week or 12 - week time point .
The proportion of subjects who experienced decreases in hemoglobin ≥ 1 g / dL was similar between ACZONE Gel , 5 % and vehicle treatment ( 8 of 58 subjects had such decreases during ACZONE treatment compared to 7 of 56 subjects during vehicle treatment among subjects with at least one on - treatment hemoglobin assessment ) .
Subgroups based on gender , race , or G6PD enzyme activity did not display any differences in laboratory results from the overall study group .
There was no evidence of clinically significant hemolytic anemia in this study .
Some of these subjects developed laboratory changes suggestive of hemolysis .
11 DESCRIPTION ACZONE Gel , 5 % , contains dapsone , a sulfone , in an aqueous gel base for topical dermatologic use .
ACZONE Gel , 5 % is a gritty translucent material with visible drug substance particles .
Chemically , dapsone has an empirical formula of C12H12N2O2S .
It is a white , odorless crystalline powder that has a molecular weight of 248 .
Dapsone ’ s chemical name is 4 , 4 ’ - diaminodiphenylsulfone and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , contains 50 mg of dapsone , USP , in a gel of carbomer homopolymer type C ; diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , NF ; methylparaben , NF ; sodium hydroxide , NF ; and purified water , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of dapsone gel in treating acne vulgaris is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics An open - label study compared the pharmacokinetics of dapsone after ACZONE Gel , 5 % , ( 110 ± 60 mg / day ) was applied twice daily ( ~ BSA 22 . 5 % ) for 14 days ( n = 18 ) with a single 100 mg dose of oral dapsone administered to a subgroup of patients ( n = 10 ) in a crossover design .
On Day 14 the mean dapsone AUC0 - 24 h was 415 ± 224 ng • h / mL for ACZONE Gel , 5 % , whereas following a single 100 mg dose of oral dapsone the AUC0 - infinity was 52 , 641 ± 36 , 223 ng • h / mL .
Exposure after the oral dose of 100 mg dapsone was approximately 100 times greater than after the topical ACZONE Gel , 5 % dose , twice a day .
In a long - term safety study of ACZONE Gel , 5 % treatment , periodic blood samples were collected up to 12 months to determine systemic exposure of dapsone and its metabolites in approximately 500 patients .
Based on the measurable dapsone concentrations from 408 patients ( M = 192 , F = 216 ) , obtained at month 3 , neither gender , nor race appeared to affect the pharmacokinetics of dapsone .
Similarly , dapsone exposures were approximately the same between the age groups of 12 - 15 years ( N = 155 ) and those greater than or equal to 16 years ( N = 253 ) .
There was no evidence of increasing systemic exposure to dapsone over the study year in these patients .
12 . 4 Microbiology In VivoActivity : No microbiology or immunology studies were conducted during dapsone gel clinical trials .
Drug Resistance : No dapsone resistance studies were conducted during dapsone gel clinical trials .
Because no microbiology studies were done , there are no data available as to whether dapsone treatment may have resulted in decreased susceptibility of Propionibacterium acnes , an organism associated with acne , to other antimicrobials that may be used to treat acne .
Therapeutic resistance to dapsone has been reported for Mycobacterium leprae , when patients have been treated with oral dapsone .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dapsone was not carcinogenic to rats when orally administered to females for 92 weeks or males for 100 weeks at dose levels up to 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 231 times the systemic exposure observed in humans as a result of use of the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) .
No evidence of potential to induce carcinogenesis was observed in a dermal study in which dapsone gel was topically applied to Tg . AC transgenic mice for approximately 26 weeks .
Dapsone concentrations of 3 % , 5 % , and 10 % were evaluated ; 3 % material was judged to be the maximum tolerated dosage .
Dapsone was negative in a bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , and was negative in a micronucleus assay conducted in mice .
Dapsone was positive ( clastogenic ) in a chromosome aberration assay conducted with Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells .
The effects of dapsone on fertility and general reproductive performance were assessed in male and female rats following oral dosing .
Dapsone reduced sperm motility at dosages of 3 mg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 15 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) when administered daily beginning 63 days prior to mating and continuing through the mating period .
The mean numbers of embryo implantations and viable embryos were significantly reduced in untreated females mated with males that had been dosed at 12 mg / kg / day or greater ( approximately 127 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) , presumably due to reduced numbers or effectiveness of sperm , indicating impairment of fertility .
When administered to female rats at a dosage of 75 mg / kg / day ( approximately 956 times the systemic exposure that is associated with the MRHD of ACZONE Gel , 5 % , based on AUC comparisons ) for 15 days prior to mating and for 17 days thereafter , dapsone reduced the mean number of implantations , increased the mean early resorption rate , and reduced the mean litter size .
These effects probably were secondary to maternal toxicity .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , clinical trials were conducted to evaluate ACZONE Gel , 5 % , for the treatment of subjects with acne vulgaris ( N = 1475 and 1525 ) .
The trials were designed to enroll subjects 12 years of age and older with 20 to 50 inflammatory and 20 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions at baseline .
In these trials , subjects applied either ACZONE Gel , 5 % , or vehicle control twice daily for up to 12 weeks .
Efficacy was evaluated in terms of success on the Global Acne Assessment Score ( no or minimal acne ) and in the percent reduction in inflammatory , non - inflammatory , and total lesions .
The Global Acne Assessment Score was a 5 - point scale as follows : 0 None : no evidence of facial acne vulgaris 1 Minimal : few non - inflammatory lesions ( comedones ) are present ; a few inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules ) may be present 2 Mild : several to many non - inflammatory lesions ( comedones ) are present ; a few inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules ) are present 3 Moderate : many non - inflammatory ( comedones ) and inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules ) are present ; no nodulo - cystic lesions are allowed 4 Severe : significant degree of inflammatory disease ; papules / pustules are a predominant feature ; a few nodulo - cystic lesions may be present ; comedones may be present .
The success rates on the Global Acne Assessment Score ( no or minimal acne ) at Week 12 are presented in Table 4 .
Table 4 - Success ( No or Minimal Acne ) on the Global Acne Assessment Score at Week 12 Study 1 * Study 2 * ACZONE N = 699 Vehicle N = 687 ACZONE N = 729 Vehicle N = 738 Subjects with No or Minimal Acne 291 ( 42 % ) 223 ( 32 % ) 253 ( 35 % ) 206 ( 28 % ) * Analysis excludes subjects classified with minimal acne at baseline Table 5 presents the mean percent reduction in inflammatory , non - inflammatory , and total lesions from baseline to Week 12 .
Table 5 - Percent Reduction in Lesions from Baseline to Week 12 Study 1 Study 2 ACZONE N = 745 Vehicle N = 740 ACZONE N = 761 Vehicle N = 764 Inflammatory 46 % 42 % 48 % 40 % Non - Inflammatory 31 % 24 % 30 % 21 % Total 38 % 32 % 37 % 29 % The clinical trials enrolled about equal proportions of male and female subjects .
Female subjects tended to have greater percent reductions in lesions and greater success on the Global Acne Assessment Score than males .
The breakdown by race in the clinical trials was about 73 % Caucasian , 14 % Black , 9 % Hispanic , and 2 % Asian .
Efficacy results were similar across the racial subgroups .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ACZONE ( dapsone ) Gel , 5 % , is supplied in the following size tubes : NDC 16110 - 367 - 60 60 gram laminate tube NDC 16110 - 367 - 90 90 gram laminate tube Store ACZONE gel at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30ºC ( 59 ° - 86ºF ) .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hematological Effects • Inform patients that methemoglobinemia can occur with topical dapsone treatment .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they develop cyanosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients who have G6PD deficiency that hemolytic anemia may occur with topical dapsone treatment .
Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions • Advise patients to apply ACZONE Gel , 5 % , twice daily to the acne affected area [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• ACZONE Gel , 5 % is for topical use only .
• Do not apply ACZONE Gel , 5 % to eyes , mouth , or mucous membranes .
Product of Italy Distributed by Alrmirall , LLC , Exton , PA 19341 , USAACZONE ® is a trademark of Almirall , LLC .
Almirall ® and its design are trademarks of Almirall , Inc . © 2019 Almirall , LLC .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] v1 . 0USPI3670 ------- Cut Here [ MULTIMEDIA ] --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PATIENT INFORMATION ACZONE ® ( AK - zōn ) ( dapsone ) Gel , 5 % Important : For use on skin only ( topical use ) .
Do not use ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % is a prescription medicine used on your skin ( topical ) to treat acne vulgaris .
ACZONE ® Gel has not been studied in children under 12 years of age .
Before using ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • Have glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( G6PD ) • Have higher than normal levels of methemoglobin in your blood ( methemoglobinemia ) • Are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % will harm your unborn baby .
• Are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will use ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you are using acne medicines that contain benzoyl peroxide .
Use of benzoyl peroxide with ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % at the same time may cause your skin or facial hair to temporarily turn yellow or orange at the site of application .
How should I use ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
• Use ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Apply ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % twice a day .
• Gently wash and pat dry the areas of your skin where you will apply ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % .
• Apply a pea - sized amount of ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % in a thin layer to the areas of your skin that have acne .
• Rub ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % in gently and completely .
It may feel gritty and you may see particles in the gel .
• Make sure to put the cap back on the ACZONE ® Gel tube .
Close it tightly .
• Wash your hands after applying ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % .
• If your acne does not get better after using ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % for 12 weeks , talk to your doctor about continuing treatment .
What are the possible side effects of ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % may cause serious side effects , including : • Decrease of oxygen in your blood caused by a certain type of abnormal red blood cell ( methemoglobinemia ) .
Stop using ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % and get medical help right away if your lips , nail beds , or the inside of your mouth turns grey or blue .
• Breakdown of red blood cells ( hemolytic anemia ) .
Some people with G6PD deficiencyusing ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % have developed mild hemolytic anemia .
Stop using ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % and tell your doctor right away if you get any of the following signs and symptoms : • back pain • dark brown urine • shortness of breath • fever • tiredness or weakness • yellow or pale skin The most common side effects of ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % include oiliness , peeling , dryness , and redness of the skin being treated .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
• Store ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % at room temperature 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25ºC ) .
• Protect ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % from freezing .
Keep ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about ACZONE ® Gel , 5 % that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients inACZONE ® Gel , 5 % ?
Active ingredient : dapsone Inactive ingredients : carbomer homopolymer type C , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , methylparaben , sodium hydroxide , and purified water , USP .
Product of Italy Distributed by Alrmirall , LLC , Exton , PA 19341 , USAACZONE ® is a trademark of Almirall , LLC .
Almirall ® and its design are trademarks of Almirall , Inc . © 2019 Almirall , LLC .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] v1 . 0PPI3670 For more information , call 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 07 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 16110 - 367 - 60 Aczone ® ( dapsone ) gel , 5 % For tropical use only 60 g Rx only almirall [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 16110 - 367 - 90 Aczone ® ( dapsone ) gel , 5 % For tropical use only 90 g Rx only almirall [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
