Active ingredient ( in each lozenge ) Nicotine polacrilex , 2 mg ( nicotine ) Purpose Stop smoking aid Uses • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving associated with quitting smoking Warnings Enter section text here If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Do not use • if you continue to smoke , chew tobacco , use snuff , or use a nicotine patch or other nicotine containing products Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium - restricted diet • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• stomach ulcer or diabetes Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness or rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdoe , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • stop smoking completely when you begin using the lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve ( about 20 - 30 minutes ) .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow lozenge .
• you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved ( about 20 - 30 minutes ) • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
• stop using the nicotine lozenge at the end of 12 weeks .
If you still feel the need to use nicotine lozenges , talk to your doctor .
Other information • each lozenge contains : sodium 15 mg • Phenylketonurics : Contains Phenylalanine 5 . 1 mg per lozenge • sugar alcohol content : 1 g mannitol per lozenge • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • keep vial closed and protect from light Inactive ingredients aspartame , flavor , magnesium stearate , mannitol , potassium bicarbonate , sodium alginate , sodium carbonate , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 866 - 751 - 9303 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 7991 - 07 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
