Active ingredients ( in each prefilled bottle ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg } Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg } Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg } Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg } Purpose Nasal Wash Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flue or allergies : - sneezing - Runny nose - Nasal stuffiness - Post nasal drip - Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) - Promotes nasal and sinus drainage - Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes - Moisturizes dry nasal passages Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
see instructions inside box for proper water sources .
Do not use if nasal passages are completely blocked or if you have an ear infection or blocked ear .
When using this product : - Use by only one person - Wash with soap and water after each use - Do not heat in microwave Keep out of reach of children Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : Use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) up to every 2 hours as needed Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use .
Other information • inspect saline packets for integrity • Do not use saline packets if open or torn • Do not use if printed foil seal under cap on pre - filled bottle is broken or missing • Protect saline packets from excessive heat and moisture • See saline packets or box for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients ( in each prefilled bottle ) Purified Water USP , Benzalkonium Chloride USP ( Preservative ) Inactive ingredient ( in each packet ) none Questions ?
1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 Sinus Wash Pre - Filled Ready to Use Saline Sinus Wash Kit Instructions DO NOT SINUS WASH WITH UNFILTERED TAP WATER .
See important note * for proper water sources .
Read through entire instruction sheet before using for the fi rst time .
* IMPORTANT NOTE Do not sinus wash with unfi ltered tap water .
Use either distilled , or sterile , or fi ltered ( using a fi lter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron or smaller ) or previously boiled water ( boil water 1 minute or 3 minutes if at elevations above 6 , 500 feet , then allow to cool to body temperature ) .
Instructions for Use of the Ready to Use Sinus Wash Kit ( pre - filled with solution ) Read through entire section .
1 .
Wash your hands and remove cap and foil safety seal from the top of the pre - filled bottle .
2 .
Assemble white cap and tube and then place on pre - filled bottle and tighten securely .
3 .
Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Place the tip of the cap up to the right nostril and gently insert the tip so that it forms a comfortable seal .
Aim the tip at the back of your head , not at the top of your head .
4 .
Squeeze the bottle gently so that the solution enters the right nostril .
Do not inhale or “ snort ” the solution into the nose – breathe through your mouth .
5 .
In a few moments , the solution will begin to drain out of the left nostril .
Continue to squeeze the bottle gently until you have used approximately half of the solution .
6 .
Remove the tip of the bottle from your nostril , then exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
7 .
Repeat the procedure on the left nostril with the remaining solution .
8 .
A small amount of solution will remain at the bottom of the bottle .
Discard the remaining solution .
9 .
Thoroughly rinse the bottle after each use with water that has been either distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the bottle open to air dry completely .
10 .
Bottle , tube and cap may be reused with included packets .
See instructions that follow .
Isotonic Solution Hypertonic Solution 1 Saline Packet per 8 fl oz .
( 240 mL ) 2 Saline Packets per 8 fl oz .
( 240 mL ) Refill instructions for the Ready to Use Sinus Wash Kit ( with saline packets ) Read through entire section .
The Ready to Use Sinus Wash Kit can be used with the enclosed Saline packets to make either an Isotonic or Hypertonic solution .
Check with the guide below or consult with your physician for best use .
An Isotonic solution creates a mild , less concentrated salt solution of 9 mg of Sodium Chloride per mL of water , which has a similar salt concentration of your body and may be more comfortable to use for some people initially than a more concentrated Hypertonic solution .
A Hypertonic solution creates a higher , more concentrated salt solution which is similar to the salt content of ocean water .
1 .
Wash your hands and make sure the bottle has been rinsed with water that has been either distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled .
2 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry ingredients into the Squeeze Bottle .
First - time users should start with 1 packet of the saline dry ingredients to make an isotonic solution .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 2 full packets for a hypertonic solution .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the bottle to the 8 oz line with proper water * .
4 .
Tighten the cap on the bottle securely , place one finger over the tip of the cap and gently shake the bottle until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
5 .
Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Place the tip of the cap up to the right nostril and gently insert the tip so that it forms a comfortable seal .
Aim the tip at the back of your head , not at the top of your head .
( continued on back ) Hints for a more comfortable nasal wash : • Begin using the Sinus Wash System slowly – especially with children .
A full pot or bottle of solution on each side is not necessary to receive the full benefit .
• If the solution is too warm or too cold , the nasal wash will be uncomfortable .
• If stinging or irritation occurs , try using 1 packet of dry ingredients per pot or bottle .
Gradually work up to using the solution at full strength using 2 full packets per bottle .
Do not use less than 1 packet .
• If you experience ear discomfort after use , try to blow your nose more gently after the wash .
If the problem persists , the openings of your Eustachian tubes may be particularly wide and use of the system should be discontinued .
• Breathe continuously through the mouth when using the Sinus Wash System to avoid solution draining from the back of the nose into the mouth .
• Some people experience irritation of the skin just inside the nostrils with repeated nasal washing .
Applying a thin layer of aloe to the inside of the nostrils before or after the nasal wash will be soothing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
