1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MILPROSA ™ is indicated to support embryo implantation and early pregnancy ( up to 10 weeks post - embryo transfer ) by supplementation of corpus luteal function as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) treatment program for infertile women up to and including 34 years of age .
MILPROSA is a progesterone indicated to support embryo implantation and early pregnancy ( up to 10 weeks post - embryo transfer ) by supplementation of corpus luteal function as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) treatment program for infertile women .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use Efficacy in women 35 years of age and older has not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of MILPROSA is one vaginal system inserted initially on the day after oocyte retrieval and then replaced weekly , continuing for up to 10 weeks total duration .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Information MILPROSA is not recommended for use with other vaginal products ( such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms , and condoms ) because this concomitant use has not been studied and may alter the progesterone release and absorption from the vaginal system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration Insert one MILPROSA vaginal system starting on the day after oocyte retrieval .
Leave in place continuously ( for a minimum of 23 hours per day ) for 7 days , then remove the used MILPROSA and insert a new MILPROSA .
Replace MILPROSA weekly for up to 10 weeks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Vaginal system : 1 . 78 grams of progesterone in a white to off - white , flexible , non - biodegradable silicone ring ( toroidal - shape ) .
Releases an average of 11 mg / day progesterone over 7 days .
( 3 ) Vaginal system : 1 . 78 grams of progesterone in a white to off - white , flexible , non - biodegradable silicone ring ( toroidal - shape ) .
MILPROSA has a cross - sectional diameter of approximately 8 . 5 mm , and an outer and inner diameter of approximately 55 mm and 38 mm , respectively .
Each MILPROSA releases an average of 11 mg / day of progesterone when placed in the vagina over a 7 - day period .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS MILPROSA is contraindicated in women with : • Known sensitivity to progesterone or any of the ingredients of MILPROSA [ see Description ( 11 ) ] • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding • Severe hepatic impairment or disease • Known or suspected malignancy of the breast • Active arterial or venous thromboembolism or severe thrombophlebitis , or a history of these events • Previous allergic reactions to progesterone or any of the ingredients of MILPROSA ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment or disease ( 4 ) • Known or suspected malignancy of the breast ( 4 ) • Active arterial or venous thromboembolism or severe thrombophlebitis , or a history of these events ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Arterial and venous thromboembolic disorders may occur with use of MILPROSA .
Discontinue MILPROSA and initiate appropriate treatment measures if any of these are suspected .
( 5 . 1 ) • Discontinue MILPROSA use if symptoms worsen in a woman with a history of depression .
( 5 . 2 ) • Discontinue MILPROSA use and initiate appropriate treatment measures for women suspected of having toxic shock syndrome based on signs and symptoms including fever , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , muscle pain , dizziness , faintness or a sunburn - like rash on the face and body .
( 5 . 3 ) • Avoid the use of MILPROSA with other vaginal products ( such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms and condoms ) because these products may alter progesterone release and absorption from MILPROSA .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular or Cerebrovascular Disorders Be alert to early signs of myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disorders , arterial or venous thromboembolism ( venous thromboembolism or pulmonary embolism ) , thrombophlebitis , or retinal thrombosis in women using MILPROSA .
Discontinue MILPROSA if any of these are suspected .
5 . 2 Depression Observe closely women with a history of depression who use MILPROSA .
Discontinue MILPROSA if symptoms of depression worsen .
5 . 3 Toxic Shock Syndrome Cases of toxic shock syndrome ( TSS ) have been reported in women using vaginal systems with and without tampon use .
No causal relationship between the use of MILPROSA and TSS has been established .
Warning signs of TSS include fever , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , muscle pain , dizziness , faintness or a sunburn - like rash on face and body .
Discontinue MILPROSA if TSS is suspected .
and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment .
5 . 4 Use of Other Vaginal Products Concomitant use of MILPROSA with other vaginal products ( such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms and condoms ) has not been studied ; these products may alter progesterone release and absorption from MILPROSA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
If possible , avoid use of other vaginal products with MILPROSA .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular or Cerebrovascular Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Toxic Shock Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions reported at ≥ 2 % with MILPROSA were headache , vaginal discharge , nausea , breast tenderness , post procedural discomfort , abdominal distension , abdominal pain , pelvic pain , and constipation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described in Table 1 reflect exposure to MILPROSA ( up to 10 weeks ) in 647 infertile women ( 80 % Caucasian , 8 % African - American , 5 % Hispanic , 5 % Asian ) in a single prospective , randomized , active concurrently - controlled clinical trial of progesterone supplementation in women undergoing in - vitro fertilization ( IVF ) in the U . S . [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than or equal to 2 % in the MILPROSA treatment group are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Number and Frequency of Adverse Reactions in Women Treated with MILPROSA in an Assisted Reproductive Technology Study ( ≥ 2 % ) Preferred Term MILPROSA ( N = 647 ) Headache 44 ( 7 % ) Vaginal discharge 26 ( 4 % ) Nausea 25 ( 4 % ) Breast tenderness 24 ( 4 % ) Post procedural discomfort 24 ( 4 % ) Abdominal distension 22 ( 3 % ) Abdominal pain 19 ( 3 % ) Pelvic pain 19 ( 3 % ) Constipation 17 ( 3 % ) Additional safety data following exposure to MILPROSA was collected in a multi - center , non - comparative , open - label , single - arm study of women undergoing Assisted Reproductive Technology in the U . S .
The population consisted of 254 infertile women 18 - 34 years of age ( 83 % Caucasian , 7 % African - American , 9 % Asian , 1 % American Indian ) who were exposed up to 10 weeks .
The adverse reaction profile was consistent with previous observations .
Adverse reactions associated with other drugs containing progesterone include bloating , mood swings , irritability , and drowsiness .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted for MILPROSA .
Drugs known to induce the hepatic CYP3A4 enzyme ( such as rifampin , carbamazepine ) may increase the elimination of progesterone .
The effect of concomitant vaginal products on the exposure of progesterone from MILPROSA has not been assessed .
MILPROSA is not recommended for use with other vaginal products ( such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms and condoms ) as this may alter progesterone release and absorption from the vaginal system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Drugs known to induce the hepatic CYP3A4 enzyme may increase the elimination of progesterone .
( 7 ) • Avoid use of MILPROSA with other vaginal products .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : MILPROSA is not intended for pediatric use .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric Use : This drug is not intended for use in women 65 years of age and older .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary MILPROSA is indicated to support embryo implantation and early pregnancy as part of an assisted reproductive technology treatment program in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) with or without intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) and embryo transfer for infertile women .
Maternal risks are discussed throughout the labeling .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data MILPROSA has been used to support embryo implantation during the first trimester of pregnancy and to maintain clinical pregnancy as part of an ART regimen .
Exposure in pregnancy with use of MILPROSA occurs from implantation of an embryo through week 10 of pregnancy when the placenta takes over production of progesterone .
In clinical trials , among 813 women less than 35 years of age who were treated with MILPROSA , 75 ( 9 . 2 % ) had a spontaneous abortion and 6 ( 0 . 7 % ) had an ectopic pregnancy .
Of the 813 women less than 35 years of age , 559 ( 68 . 8 % ) were planned to be followed through birth .
Among the 559 to be followed through birth , 263 ( 47 . 0 % ) had livebirths consisting of 154 ( 58 . 6 % ) singletons , 102 ( 38 . 8 % ) twins , and 7 ( 2 . 7 % ) triplets .
In this same cohort of treatment , 10 ( 1 . 8 % ) had a second or third trimester loss .
Neonatal birth defects were reported in 8 ( 2 . 1 % ) of infants based on 379 liveborn infants .
In the 2 . 1 % of live born infants with birth defects for women less than 35 years of age treated with MILPROSA the following were noted : Turner ' s syndrome ; Tetralogy of Fallot ; and congenital anomalies including left foot deformity , hypospadias , pyloric stenosis , spina bifida , multiple congenital anomalies , and multiple congenital anomalies with VACTERL association .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Detectable amounts of progesterone have been identified in the milk of nursing mothers .
The effect of this on the nursing infant has not been determined .
A published study reported no adverse effects of progesterone on milk production or infant growth during the first postpartum year .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for MILPROSA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from MILPROSA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of MILPROSA have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of MILPROSA did not include women 65 years of age and older .
MILPROSA is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Body Mass Index ( BMI ) The safety and efficacy of MILPROSA in women with a BMI > 38 kg / m2 has not been studied .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment MILPROSA has not been studied in women with hepatic impairment .
11 DESCRIPTION MILPROSA ( progesterone ) vaginal system is a white to off - white , flexible , non - biodegradable silicone ring ( toroidal - shaped ) containing 1 . 78 grams of progesterone .
MILPROSA has a cross - sectional diameter of approximately 8 . 5 mm , and an outer and inner diameter of approximately 55 mm and 38 mm , respectively .
The chemical name for progesterone is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
It has an empirical formula of C21H30O2 and a molecular weight of 314 . 5 .
Progesterone has a melting point of 126 - 131 ° C .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] When placed in the vagina , each vaginal system is estimated to provide an average release rate of 11 mg / day of progesterone over 7 days .
The inactive components of the vaginal system are light mineral oil and silicone elastomer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Progesterone is a naturally occurring steroid that is secreted by the ovary , placenta , and adrenal gland .
In the presence of adequate estrogen , progesterone transforms a proliferative endometrium into a secretory endometrium .
Progesterone is necessary to increase endometrial receptivity for implantation of an embryo .
Once an embryo is implanted , progesterone acts to maintain a pregnancy .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Progesterone plasma concentrations increased following the administration of MILPROSA vaginal system to 30 healthy postmenopausal females ( inserted once a week for two weeks ) ( MILPROSA is not indicated in postmenopausal females ) .
The 30 subjects were pre - treated with 1 mg oral estradiol tablets once a day for 28 days prior to MILPROSA treatment and during MILPROSA treatment to manage postmenopausal vaginal atrophy .
Steady state concentrations were attained 96 hours after initiation of treatment with MILPROSA .
After reaching steady state , MILPROSA provided average baseline - adjusted plasma concentrations of progesterone exceeding 8 ng / mL .
The pharmacokinetic results are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Mean ( ± Standard Deviation ) Baseline - Adjusted Plasma Progesterone Pharmacokinetic ParametersPharmacokinetic Parameters MILPROSA Cmax Maximum progesterone concentration .
Tmax Time to maximum progesterone concentration .
Cavg Average progesterone concentration at steady state .
AUC0 - 168 hr Area under the drug concentration versus time curve from 0 - 168 hours post dose .
AUC168 - 336 hr Area under the drug concentration versus time curve from 168 hours to 336 hours after initiation of treatment AUC168 - inf Area under the drug concentration versus time curve from 168 hours after initiation of treatment to infinite time Kel Elimination rate constant T1 / 2 Terminal elimination half - life Cmin Minimum progesterone concentration .
First MILPROSA Vaginal System ( n = 30 ) , 0 to 168 hours Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) AUC0 - 168 hr ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) Cavg , ss 96 - 168 hr ( ng / mL ) 9 . 33 ± 2 . 80 134 . 80 ± 49 . 17 1188 . 41 ± 374 . 25 8 . 05 ± 2 . 50 Second MILPROSA Vaginal System ( n = 27 , * n = 22 ) , 168 to 336 hours Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) Cmin ( ng / mL ) Cavg , ss 168 - 336 hr ( ng / mL ) AUC168 - 336 hr ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) AUC168 - inf ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) Kel ( hr - 1 ) T1 / 2 ( hr ) 10 . 66 ± 2 . 72 206 . 15 ± 56 . 33 6 . 33 ± 1 . 80 8 . 20 ± 2 . 15 1377 . 59 ± 362 . 00 1382 . 62 ± 387 . 81 0 . 07 ± 0 . 02 10 . 82 ± 4 . 27 Distribution Progesterone is approximately 95 % to 98 % bound to serum proteins , primarily to serum albumin and corticosteroid binding globulin .
Elimination The mean ( ± standard deviation ) elimination half - life of progesterone delivered by MILPROSA is 10 . 82 ± 4 . 27 hours .
Metabolism Progesterone is metabolized primarily by the liver largely to pregnanediols and pregnanolones , which are conjugated to glucuronide and sulfate metabolites [ See Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Excretion Progesterone undergoes both biliary and renal elimination .
Following an intravenous injection of labeled progesterone , 50 % - 60 % of the excretion of metabolites occurs via the kidney ; approximately 10 % occurs via the bile and feces .
Overall recovery of the labeled material accounts for 70 % of an administered dose .
Only 0 . 1 % of unchanged progesterone is excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Nonclinical toxicity studies to determine the potential of MILPROSA to cause carcinogenicity or mutagenicity have not been performed .
The effect of MILPROSA on fertility has not been evaluated in animals .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Luteal Supplementation During Assisted Reproductive Treatment Trial A single prospective , randomized , assessor - blind , active concurrently - controlled trial evaluated the efficacy of 10 weeks of treatment with MILPROSA for support of implantation and early pregnancy in infertile women participating in an Assisted Reproductive Technology treatment program .
Women were eligible for the trial if there was tubal , idiopathic , male factor , ovulatory dysfunction or endometriosis - linked infertility , documentation of a normal uterine cavity within 1 year of screening , and a source of fresh or frozen sperm meeting standard criteria .
Women were not included in the trial if they had conditions which contraindicated the use of progesterone ; hypersensitivity or intolerance to silicone ; history of pelvic irradiation , endometrial cancer , toxic shock syndrome , more than one failed fresh in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) cycle , more than two consecutive clinically recognized miscarriages , or HIV / AIDS ; uncontrolled hypertension , hyperprolactinemia , or hypothyroidism ; body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 38 kg / m2 , clinically significant endometrial pathology or a communicating hydrosalpinx ; and a male partner with non - obstructive azoospermia for couples using fresh sperm .
Prior to IVF with or without intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) , eligible women were started on an ovarian down - regulation protocol which begin during the cycle immediately prior to the embryo transfer cycle .
Ovarian stimulation with gonadotropins products was begun once down - regulation was achieved .
The length of stimulation was individualized per the trial investigational site ' s standard protocol ( s ) , and / or the trial investigator ' s clinical judgment .
During stimulation , the participating woman was monitored to determine when to trigger ovulation with human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) .
Egg retrieval occurred approximately 35 to 37 hours after hCG administration .
On the day after egg retrieval , at the time of consent , eligible women were stratified by age and randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to MILPROSA , one vaginal insert every week , or the active comparator once daily .
Embryo transfer occurred 3 to 5 days after egg retrieval .
A serum pregnancy test was conducted 2 weeks after egg retrieval .
Women whose serum ß - hCG was less than 5 mIU were discontinued from the study .
Those with a serum ß - hCG greater than 5 continued dosing with MILPROSA or active comparator for up to a total of 10 weeks ( i . e . , through 12 weeks of pregnancy ) .
Efficacy was assessed by the co - primary endpoints of clinically recognized pregnancy rate , defined as the presence of at least one fetal heartbeat seen on ultrasound at 6 weeks and at 10 weeks post - embryo transfer .
The trial randomized 646 infertile women to the MILPROSA vaginal system arm and 651 infertile women to the active control arm .
Women receiving MILPROSA were 80 % Caucasian , 8 % African - American , 5 % Hispanic , 5 % Asian and between 20 and 42 years of age ( mean age 31 . 7 ) with a body mass index of 38 kg / m2 or less at screening .
Women in the active control arm demonstrated similar demographics .
The primary efficacy analysis set was the modified intent - to - treat population ( MITT ) , which included all women having successful egg retrieval and having at least one dose of progesterone .
Women who terminated the study prior to 6 weeks after egg retrieval were considered treatment failures at both 6 and 10 weeks .
The clinical pregnancy rates at Weeks 6 and 10 were compared between the MILPROSA arm and the active comparator arm at a one - sided alpha of 0 . 025 .
The 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) for the difference in pregnancy rate was calculated using the normal approximation method .
Treatment with MILPROSA was declared non - inferior to the active comparator if the lower bound of the 95 % CI for the difference in pregnancy rate was greater than - 10 % based on MITT population .
The results with the MILPROSA treatment are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Clinical Pregnancy Rates in Patients Receiving MILPROSA for Luteal Supplementation and Early Pregnancy While in an Assisted Reproductive Technology Treatment Program ( NCT00615251 ) .
MILPROSA ( N = 646 ) 6 weeks post - embryo transfer Clinical Pregnancy : n ( % ) 310 ( 48 . 0 % ) Pregnancy rate percentage difference between MILPROSA and comparator 0 . 8 % 95 % Confidence Interval for difference vs . comparator ( - 4 . 6 % , 6 . 3 % ) 10 weeks post - embryo transfer Clinical Pregnancy : n ( % ) 300 ( 46 . 4 % ) Pregnancy rate percentage difference between MILPROSA and comparator 1 . 3 % 95 % Confidence Interval for difference vs . comparator ( - 4 . 1 % , 6 . 7 % ) The pregnancy rates at Week 6 and Week 10 post embryo transfer for women treated with MILPROSA were non - inferior to those for women treated with the active comparator .
Women participating in the trial were stratified at randomization by age .
The co - primary endpoints of the clinical pregnancy rate at Weeks 6 and 10 post embryo transfer were also evaluated by age groups 18 - 34 and 35 - 42 .
In women under the age of 35 , the pregnancy rates with MILPROSA were 49 . 3 % and 48 . 2 % respectively at Weeks 6 and 10 post embryo transfer and these rates were non - inferior to the rates for women treated with the active comparator and evaluated at the same time points .
The trial was insufficiently powered to provide meaningful comparisons for women age 35 and older .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each MILPROSA ( progesterone ) vaginal system is a white to off - white , flexible , non - biodegradable silicone ring ( toroidal - shaped ) , which contains 1 . 78 grams of progesterone and releases an average of 11 mg / day of progesterone over a 7 - day period of use .
MILPROSA vaginal system has an inner and outer diameter of approximately 38 mm and 55 mm , respectively , and a cross - sectional diameter of approximately 8 . 5 mm .
Each MILPROSA is packed individually in a sealed foil pouch .
These pouches are available in cartons packed : • 2 vaginal systems per carton ( NDC 55566 - 9400 - 1 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate or freeze and avoid excessive heat .
After use , place in pouch and discard via a drug take - back option if available ; otherwise , mix with something undesirable , such as used coffee grounds , dirt , or cat litter to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in something that can be closed ( a re - sealable zipper storage bag , empty can , or other container ) and discard in the household trash .
DO NOT flush down toilet .
See drug disposal information at www . fda . gov / drugdisposal for more information .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Inform women : • Of the importance of reporting irregular vaginal bleeding to their doctor as soon as possible .
• Of the possible side effects of progesterone therapy such as headaches , abdominal pain , breast tenderness , bloating , mood swings , irritability , and drowsiness .
• To leave the vaginal system in place continuously ( for a minimum of 23 hours per day ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
It may be removed for sexual intercourse , although this is not necessary .
• MILPROSA is not recommended for use with other vaginal products ( such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms , and condoms ) as this concomitant use has not been studied and may alter the progesterone release and absorption from the vaginal system [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc . 100 Interpace Parkway Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 04 / 2020 Patient Information MILPROSA ( mil - PRO - sah ) ( progesterone ) vaginal system Read this Patient Information before you start using MILPROSA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Your healthcare provider may do a physical examination before prescribing MILPROSA .
What is MILPROSA ?
• MILPROSA is a vaginal system that contains the hormone progesterone .
MILPROSA is for infertile women who need extra progesterone while undergoing treatment in an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) program .
Progesterone is one of the hormones essential for helping you to become and to stay pregnant .
If you are undergoing ART treatment , your healthcare provider may prescribe MILPROSA to provide the progesterone your body needs .
• It is not known if MILPROSA is safe and effective in children .
• It is not known if MILPROSA is effective in women 35 years of age and older .
• It is not known if MILPROSA is safe and effective in women with a high body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 38 kg / m2 .
Do not use MILPROSA if you : • are allergic to progesterone or any ingredients in MILPROSA .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
• have unusual vaginal bleeding that has not been evaluated by your healthcare provider .
• have or have had liver disease .
• have known or suspected breast cancer .
• have or have had blood clots in the legs , lungs , eyes , or anywhere else in your body .
Before you use MILPROSA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a history of heart problems or heart disease including a heart attack , stroke , and blood clots .
• have a history of depression .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
MILPROSA may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you use MILPROSA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some medicines may affect MILPROSA .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you : • use other vaginal products , such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms , and condoms .
• take CYP inducers such as rifampin and carbamazepine .
Talk with your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you take these medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use MILPROSA ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information that comes with MILPROSA for information about the right way to insert , remove , and throw away MILPROSA .
• Use MILPROSA exactly as prescribed .
The usual dose of MILPROSA is 1 system placed in your vagina for 7 continuous days , and replaced weekly for a total of 10 weeks , unless your healthcare provider tells you something different .
• MILPROSA should remain in place for a minimum of 23 hours each day .
It may be removed for sexual intercourse , although this is not necessary .
• Do not use any other vaginal products such as antifungal products , vaginal lubricants , diaphragms , and condoms when using the MILPROSA vaginal system .
What are the possible side effects of MILPROSA ?
MILPROSA may cause serious side effects , including : • blood clots .
MILPROSA can increase your chance of getting blood clots .
Blood clots can be serious and lead to death .
Serious blood clots can happen in the : • legs ( thrombophlebitis ) • lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • heart ( heart attack ) • brain ( stroke ) Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have : • leg pain that does not go away • sudden shortness of breath • sudden changes in vision or blindness • severe pain or pressure in your chest • blood in your spit when you cough • sudden severe headache • vomiting • dizziness or feeling faint • weakness in an arm or leg • trouble speaking • yellowing of the skin or the white of the eyes • depression .
Tell your healthcare provider if your symptoms of depression get worse while using MILPROSA .
• toxic shock syndrome ( TSS ) .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if you have the following symptoms : • fever • nausea • vomiting • diarrhea • muscles pain • dizziness • fainting • a sunburn - like rash on your face and body Common side effects of MILPROSA include : • headache • vaginal discharge • nausea • breast tenderness • discomfort after inserting the vaginal system • stomach bloating • stomach pain • pelvic pain • constipation Other side effects of progesterone use include : • mood swings • irritability • drowsiness Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have abnormal vaginal bleeding .
These are not all the possible side effects of MILPROSA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store MILPROSA ?
• Store MILPROSA at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not put MILPROSA in the refrigerator .
• Do not freeze MILPROSA .
• Avoid excessive heat .
• Keep MILPROSA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of MILPROSA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use MILPROSA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give MILPROSA to other women , even if they have the same condition as you do .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about MILPROSA that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in MILPROSA ?
Active ingredient : progesterone .
Inactive ingredients : light mineral oil , silicone elastomer .
For more information call Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) .
Instructions for Use MILPROSA ( mil - PRO - sah ) ( progesterone ) vaginal system Read this Instructions for Use carefully before you use MILPROSA and each time you get a refill .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider who specializes in women ' s health .
If you have any questions about MILPROSA , ask your healthcare provider .
Follow the steps below to insert MILPROSA : • Wash and dry your hands .
• Remove the MILPROSA vaginal system from its foil pouch .
Keep the foil pouch so you can place your used MILPROSA in it before you throw it away .
See " To throw away ( dispose of ) MILPROSA " instructions at the end of this Instructions for Use .
• Choose the position that is most comfortable for you such as lying down , squatting , or standing with 1 leg up .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold MILPROSA between your thumb and index finger and gently squeeze the sides of MILPROSA together .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Use your other hand and hold open the folds of skin around your vagina .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place the tip of MILPROSA in the vaginal opening and then use your index finger to push the folded MILPROSA gently into your vagina .
Push MILPROSA up towards your lower back as far as you can .
If you can feel MILPROSA , it may not be placed back far enough in your vagina .
Use your index finger to push MILPROSA back a bit further .
Put MILPROSA where it is comfortable for you .
There is no danger of MILPROSA being pushed too far up in the vagina or getting lost .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] You do not need to use anything else to place MILPROSA in the correct position .
MILPROSA will change shape to fit your body .
The exact position of MILPROSA is not important .
The muscles of your vagina will keep MILPROSA securely in place .
If you have difficulty inserting MILPROSA , it is fine to rinse the MILPROSA with cool to lukewarm ( not hot ) water before inserting it .
In 7 days remove the old MILPROSA and replace with a new MILPROSA .
MILPROSA should remain in place for a minimum of 23 hours each day .
You can remove MILPROSA for sexual intercourse , although this is not necessary .
If MILPROSA is expelled , removed , or dropped , it should be rinsed with cool to lukewarm ( not hot ) water and reinserted as soon as possible , except if MILPROSA touches or has feces on it .
If MILPROSA touches or has feces on it , replace it with a new MILPROSA .
To remove MILPROSA : • Wash your hands .
• Choose the position that is the most comfortable for you such as lying down , squatting , or standing with 1 leg up .
• Put a finger into your vagina and hook it through MILPROSA .
• Gently pull downwards and forward to remove MILPROSA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To throw away ( dispose of ) MILPROSA : • Place the used MILPROSA in the foil pouch .
If available , throw it away through a drug take - back option .
or • Place the used MILPROSA in the foil pouch and mix it with coffee grounds , dirt or cat litter .
• Place the foil pouch mixture in something that can be closed like a zipper storage bag , empty can , or other container and throw it away in your household trash out of the reach of children and pets .
• Do not flush the foil pouch down the toilet .
For more information on drug disposal see www . fda . gov / drugdisposal .
If you have other questions call your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured For : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Issued : 04 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 Ring Pouch Carton NDC 55566 - 9400 - 1 Contains 2 vaginal systems with each individually packaged in a pouch Once - weekly Milprosa ™ ( progesterone ) Vaginal System releases 11 mg per day For Vaginal Use Only Do not use if the pouch is broken .
Instruction to the pharmacist : Dispense with patient information .
Dispense in original carton only .
Recommended Dosage : Insert 1 Milprosa vaginally and replace every 7 days .
See prescribing information .
FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
