1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LASTACAFT ® is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
LASTACAFT ® is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop in each eye once daily .
Instill one drop in each eye once daily .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical ophthalmic solution containing alcaftadine , 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing alcaftadine , 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • To minimize the risk of contamination , do not touch dropper tip to any surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) • LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Contamination of Tip and Solution To minimize contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Contact Lens Use Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
LASTACAFT ® should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
The preservative in LASTACAFT ® , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of LASTACAFT ® .
5 . 3 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only LASTACAFT ® is for topical ophthalmic use only .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The most common ocular adverse reactions , occurring in < 4 % of LASTACAFT ® treated eyes , were eye irritation , burning and / or stinging on instillation , eye redness , and eye pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) The most common non - ocular adverse reactions , occurring in < 3 % of subjects with LASTACAFT ® treated eyes , were nasopharyngitis , headache and influenza .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 433 - 8871 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions The most frequent ocular adverse reactions , occurring in < 4 % of LASTACAFT ® treated eyes , were eye irritation , burning and / or stinging upon instillation , eye redness and eye pruritus .
6 . 2 Non - ocular Adverse Reactions The most frequent non - ocular adverse reactions , occurring in < 3 % of subjects with LASTACAFT ® treated eyes , were nasopharyngitis , headache and influenza .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits revealed no evidence of impaired female reproduction or harm to the fetus due to alcaftadine .
Oral doses in rats and rabbits of 20 and 80 mg / kg / day , respectively , produced plasma exposure levels approximately 200 and 9000 times the plasma exposure at the recommended human ocular dose .
There are however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when LASTACAFT ® is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION LASTACAFT ® is a sterile , topically administered H1 receptor antagonist containing alcaftadine for ophthalmic use .
Alcaftadine is a white to yellow powder with an empirical formula of C19H21N3O and a molecular weight of 307 . 39 .
Contains : Active : alcaftadine 0 . 25 % ( 2 . 5 mg / mL ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 005 % .
Inactives : edetate disodium ; sodium phosphate , monobasic ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to adjust pH Chemical Name : 6 , 11 - dihydro - 11 - ( 1 - methyl - 4 - piperidinylidene ) - 5 H - imidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ] [ 3 ] benzazepine - 3 - carboxaldehyde Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The drug product has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Alcaftadine is an H1 histamine receptor antagonist and inhibitor of the release of histamine from mast cells .
Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following bilateral topical ocular administration of alcaftadine ophthalmic solution , 0 . 25 % , the mean plasma Cmax of alcaftadine was approximately 60 pg / mL and the median Tmax occurred at 15 minutes .
Plasma concentrations of alcaftadine were below the lower limit of quantification ( 10 pg / mL ) by 3 hours after dosing .
The mean Cmax of the active carboxylic acid metabolite was approximately 3 ng / mL and occurred at 1 hour after dosing .
Plasma concentrations of the carboxylic acid metabolite were below the lower limit of quantification ( 100 pg / mL ) by 12 hours after dosing .
There was no indication of systemic accumulation or changes in plasma exposure of alcaftadine or the active metabolite following daily topical ocular administration .
Distribution The protein binding of alcaftadine and the active metabolite are 39 . 2 % and 62 . 7 % , respectively .
Metabolism The metabolism of alcaftadine is mediated by non - CYP450 cytosolic enzymes to the active carboxylic acid metabolite .
Excretion The elimination half - life of the carboxylic acid metabolite is approximately 2 hours following topical ocular administration .
Based on data following oral administration of alcaftadine , the carboxylic acid metabolite is primarily eliminated unchanged in the urine .
In vitro studies showed that neither alcaftadine nor the carboxylic acid metabolite substantially inhibited reactions catalyzed by major CYP450 enzymes .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Alcaftadine was not mutagenic or genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma assay or the mouse micronucleus assay .
Alcaftadine was found to have no effect on fertility of male and female rats at oral doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 200 times the plasma exposure at the recommended human ocular dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical efficacy was evaluated in conjunctival allergen challenge ( CAC ) studies .
LASTACAFT ® was more effective than its vehicle in preventing ocular itching in patients with allergic conjunctivitis induced by an ocular allergen challenge , both at 3 minutes post - dosing and at 16 hours post - dosing of LASTACAFT ® .
The safety of LASTACAFT ® was evaluated in a randomized clinical study of 909 subjects over a period of 6 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LASTACAFT ® ( alcaftadine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 % is supplied in an opaque , white low - density polyethylene bottle with a white polypropylene cap .
3 mL fill in 5 mL bottle NDC 42254 - 288 - 03 Storage : Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Sterility of Dropper Tip Patients should be advised to not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
17 . 2 Concomitant Use of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Patients should be advised that LASTACAFT ® should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Patients should also be advised to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of LASTACAFT ® .
The preservative in LASTACAFT ® , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of LASTACAFT ® .
17 . 3 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only For topical ophthalmic administration only .
ALLERGAN Manufactured for Allergan , Inc . , Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . © 2011 Allergan , Inc . ® marks owned by Allergan , Inc .
Made in the U . S . A . 72409US11C Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP .
Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
