Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Indications ◾ Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) ◾ For the treatment of superficial skin infections caused by yeast ( candida albicans ) ◾ For effective relief of redness , irritation , scaling , itching , discomfort and burning Warnings • For external use only • Not intended for ingestion • Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor • Avoid contact with the eyes • For the treatment of athlete ' s foot and ringworm : If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor • For the treatment of jock itch : If irritation occurs or there is no improvement within 2 weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor • For the prevention of athlete ' s foot : If irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a doctor • Do not use for diaper rash • Keep out of the reach of children • If swallow , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily as directed by a doctor or health care professional • For athlete ' s foot : Pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • For athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor • This product is not effective on the scalp or nails Inactive ingredients • Allantoin , Beeswax , Cetyl Dimethicone , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Fragrance , Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Isopropyl Palmitate , Methylparaben , Petrolatum , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Chloride , Zinc Oxide Principal Display Panel LOT NDC 17518 - 857 - 02 3 M Cavilon ™ Antifungal Cream Miconazole Nitrate 2 % • For effective relief of redness , irritation , scaling , itching , discomfort and burning • Enriched with water - repelling ingredients REF 3389 Latex - Free Net Weight 2 oz .
• 56 g Not Made With Natural Rubber Latex Made in U . S . A . with globally sourced materials for 3 M Health Care 2510 Conway Ave . St . Paul , MN 55144 1 - 800 - 228 - 3957 3 M .
com / Cavilon 3 M and Cavilon are trademarks of 3 M .
© 2019 , 3 M .
All right reserved .
34 - 8724 - 0627 - 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
