DESCRIPTION Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of electrolytes in water for injection intended only for sterile irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes .
The composition is based on a modification of the injectable formula originally known as Hartmann ’ s Solution .
Each 100 mL of Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation contains : Sodium chloride 600 mg ; sodium lactate , anhydrous 310 mg ; potassium chloride 30 mg ; calcium chloride , dihydrate 20 mg .
The pH is 6 . 75 ( 6 . 0 — 7 . 5 ) .
The solution is isotonic ( 273 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
and has the following electrolyte content ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium ( Na + ) 130 ; potassium ( K + ) 4 ; calcium ( Ca + + ) 3 ; chloride ( Cl ¯ ) 109 and lactate ( CH3CH ( OH ) COO ¯ ) 28 .
Contains sodium hydroxide and may contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The solution contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose or short procedure irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required , the unused portion should be discarded .
Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation may be classified as a sterile irrigant , wash , rinse and pharmaceutical vehicle .
Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride , dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Lactate , USP is chemically designated C3H5NaO3 , a 60 % aqueous solution miscible in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation exerts a mechanical cleansing action for sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters and surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation provides an isotonic irrigation with the same ionic constituents as Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP , a modification of Hartmann ’ s Solution .
Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation is considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl ¯ ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Sodium lactate in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and lactate ( C3H5O3 ¯ ) ions .
The lactate anion provides an alkalizing effect resulting from simultaneous removal by the liver of lactate and hydrogen ions .
In the liver , the lactate is metabolized to glycogen which is ultimately converted to carbon dioxide and water by oxidative metabolism .
The lactate anion acts as a source ( alternate ) of bicarbonate when normal production and utilization of lactic acid is not impaired as a result of disordered lactate metabolism .
Since metabolic conversion is dependent on the integrity of cellular oxidative processes , lactate may be inadequate or ineffective as a source of bicarbonate in patients suffering from acidosis associated with shock or other disorders involving reduced perfusion of body tissues .
When oxidative activity is intact , one to two hours time is required for metabolism of lactate .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation is indicated for all general irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus this irrigation must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
Do not warm container over 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to “ dwell ” inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
Aseptic technique is essential with the use of sterile solutions for irrigation of body cavities , wounds and urethral catheters or for wetting dressings that come in contact with body tissues .
The flexible container is designed for use with nonvented irrigation sets .
When used for irrigation via irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start - up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation .
It is also not known whether it can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
It should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Lactated Ringer ’ s Irrigation have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
Should any adverse reaction occur , discontinue the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONSand ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure .
When used as a vehicle for other drugs , the manufacturer ’ s recommendations should be followed .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution container permits .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Lactated Ringer ' s Irrigation is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in single - dose 3000 mL flexible irrigation container packaged 4 per case .
NDC REF Size 0264 - 7389 - 60 R8306 3000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm container over 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Instructions for Preparation and Administration Not for injection .
Not for use with pressurized irrigation systems .
Aseptic technique is required .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Inspect irrigation bag : overwrap and primary bag .
• Do not use if overwrap has been damaged .
• Do not use unless solution is clear and closure is intact .
1 .
To open : Tear overwrap starting from the tear notches .
( Figure 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Prepare medication port by removal of aluminum foil .
( Figure 2 a ) • Puncture resealable medication port by using 19 – 22 gauge needle and inject additive ( s ) .
( Figure 2 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Medication port must be swabbed with disinfection agent before re - puncturing .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
( Figure 3 a ) • Check admixture visually for particulate matter .
( Figure 3 b ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] For Irrigation purposes while using an infusion set : 3 .
Remove aluminum foil from outlet / set port at the bottom of container ( Figure 4 a ) and attach administration set ( Figure 4 b ) : use non - vented infusion set or close air vent on a vented set .
Refer to directions for use accompanying the administration set .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Hang bag on IV Pole .
( Figure 5 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] LD - 442 - 3 Y36 - 002 - 962 Package Insert Rx only Revised : August 2018 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Liter Container LACTATED RINGER ’ S IRRIGATION ISOTONIC SOLUTION FOR IRRIGATION CONTRAINDICATIONS : NOT FOR INJECTION REF R8306 NDC 0264 - 7389 - 60 LOT EXP .
3000 mL Each 100 mL contains Sodium Chloride 600 mg ; Sodium Lactate , Anhyd 310 mg ; Potassium Chloride 30 mg ; Calcium Chloride , Dihydrate 20 mg in Water for Injection .
Contains NaOH and may contain HCI for pH adjustment .
Electrolytes per 1000 mL ( Not including pH adjustment ) : Sodium 130 mEq ; Potassium 4 mEq ; Calcium 3 mEq ; Chloride 109 mEq ; Lactate 28 mEq .
273 mOsmol / liter ( Calc . )
pH 6 . 75 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warnings : Do not warm container over 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Single unit container .
Contains no bacteriostatic agent .
Discard unused portion .
Use aseptic technique .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
See Package Insert .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only Y38 - 000 - 062 LD - 252 - 4 B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 SET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
