1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is indicated for : Atropine is an anti - muscarinic agent indicated for : • • Mydriasis ( 1 . 1 ) • • Cycloplegia ( 1 . 2 ) • • Penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Mydriasis 1 . 2 Cycloplegia 1 . 3 Penalization of the Healthy Eye in the Treatment of Amblyopia 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In individuals from three ( 3 ) months of age or greater , 1 drop topically to the cul - de - sac of the conjunctiva in one or both eyes as indicated , forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time .
In individuals 3 years of age or greater , doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed .
Discard the single - dose vial immediately after use in one or both eyes .
• • In individuals from three ( 3 ) months of age or greater , 1 drop topically to the cul - de - sac of the conjunctiva , forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • In individuals 3 years of age or greater , doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed ( 2 . 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % : each mL contains 10 mg of atropine sulfate .
Ophthalmic solution : 1 % atropine sulfate ( 10 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % should not be used in anyone who has demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity or known allergic reaction to any ingredient of the formulation because it may recur .
Hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to any ingredient in the formulation ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Photophobia and blurred vision due to pupil unresponsiveness and cycloplegia may last up to 2 weeks ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Risk of blood pressure increase from systemic absorption ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • To avoid the potential for eye injury or contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the single - dose vial to the eye or to any other surface ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Photophobia and Blurred Vision Photophobia and blurred vision due to pupil unresponsiveness and cycloplegia may last up to 2 weeks .
5 . 2 Elevation of Blood Pressure Elevation in blood pressure from systemic absorption has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % .
5 . 3 Potential for Eye Injury or Contamination To avoid the potential for eye injury or contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the single - dose vial to the eye or to any other surface .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • • Photophobia and Blurred Vision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Elevation in Blood Pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most common adverse reactions that have been reported are eye pain and stinging on administration , blurred vision , photophobia , superficial keratitis , decreased lacrimation , drowsiness , increased heart rate and blood pressure ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging occurs upon instillation of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution .
Other commonly occurring adverse reactions include blurred vision , photophobia , superficial keratitis and decreased lacrimation .
Allergic reactions such as papillary conjunctivitis , contact dermatitis , and eyelid edema may also occur less commonly .
6 . 2 Systemic Adverse Reactions Systemic effects of atropine are related to its anti - muscarinic activity .
Systemic adverse events reported include dryness of skin , mouth , and throat from decreased secretions from mucous membranes ; drowsiness , restlessness , irritability or delirium from stimulation of the central nervous system ; tachycardia ; flushed skin of the face and neck .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis ( 7 ) .
7 . 1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % administration in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
Adequate animal development and reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine sulfate .
In humans , 1 % atropine sulfate is systemically bioavailable following topical ocular administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information to inform risk regarding the presence of atropine in human milk following ocular administrations of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % to the mother .
The effects on breastfed infants and the effects on milk production are also unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Due to the potential for systemic absorption , the use of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % in children under the age of 3 months is not recommended and the use in children under 3 years of age should be limited to no more than one drop per eye per day .
Safety and efficacy in children above the age of 3 months has been established in adequate and well controlled trials .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of accidental ingestion or toxic overdosage with Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % , supportive care may include a short acting barbiturate or diazepam as needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
Large doses for sedation should be avoided because central depressant action may coincide with the depression occurring late in atropine poisoning .
Central stimulants are not recommended .
Physostigmine , given by slow intravenous injection of 1 to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 to 1 mg in pediatric populations ) , rapidly abolishes delirium and coma caused by large doses of atropine .
Since physostigmine is rapidly destroyed , the patient may again lapse into coma after one to two hours , and repeated doses may be required .
Artificial respiration with oxygen may be necessary .
Cooling measures may be needed to help to reduce fever , especially in pediatric populations .
The fatal adult dose of atropine is not known .
In pediatric populations , 10 mg or less may be fatal .
11 DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is an aseptically prepared , sterile solution for topical ophthalmic use .
The product does not contain an antimicrobial preservative .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : Benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 . ]
oct - 3 - yl ester , endo – ( ± ) - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , monohydrate .
Molecular Formula : ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • H2O Molecular Weight : 694 . 84 g / mol Each mL of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % contains : Active : atropine sulfate 10 mg equivalent to 8 . 3 mg of atropine .
Inactives : boric acid , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 0 ) , and water for injection USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine is a reversible antagonist of muscarine - like actions of acetylcholine and is therefore classified as an anti - muscarinic agent .
Atropine is relatively selective for muscarinic receptors .
Its potency at nicotinic receptors is much lower , and actions at non - muscarinic receptors are generally undetectable clinically .
Atropine does not distinguish among the M1 , M2 , and M3 subgroups of muscarinic receptors .
The pupillary constrictor muscle depends on muscarinic cholinoceptor activation .
This activation is blocked by topical atropine resulting in unopposed sympathetic dilator activity and mydriasis .
Atropine also weakens the contraction of the ciliary muscle , or cycloplegia .
Cycloplegia results in loss of the ability to accommodate such that the eye cannot focus for near vision .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The onset of action after administration of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % generally occurs within minutes with maximal effect seen in hours and the effect can last multiple days [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a study of healthy subjects , after topical ocular administration of 30 μL of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution 1 % , the mean ( ± SD ) systemic bioavailability of l - hyoscyamine was reported to be approximately 64 ± 29 % ( range 19 % to 95 % ) as compared to intravenous administration of atropine sulfate .
The median ( range ) time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) was 19 minutes ( range 3 to 60 minutes ) , and the mean ( ± SD ) peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of l - hyoscyamine was 288 ± 73 pg / mL .
The mean ( ± SD ) plasma half - life was reported to be approximately 2 . 5 ± 0 . 8 hours .
In a separate study of patients undergoing ocular surgery , after topical ocular administration of 40 μL of atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution , 1 % , the mean ( ± SD ) plasma Cmax of l - hyoscyamine was 860 ± 402 pg / mL , which was observed within 8 minutes following administration .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Atropine sulfate was negative in the Salmonella / microsome mutagenicity test .
Studies to evaluate carcinogenicity and impairment of fertility have not been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Topical administration of Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % results in mydriasis and / or cycloplegia with efficacy demonstrated in both adults and children .
The maximum effect for mydriasis is achieved in about 30 – 40 minutes after administration , with recovery after approximately 7 – 10 days .
The maximum effect for cycloplegia is achieved within 60 – 180 minutes after administration , with recovery after approximately 7 – 12 days .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % is supplied as an aseptically prepared , sterile solution for topical ophthalmic use supplied as a 0 . 4 mL fill in a translucent , low - density polyethylene , single - dose vial .
One ( 1 ) strip of 5 single - dose vials is packaged into a foil pouch .
• NDC 24208 - 965 - 01 10 single - dose vials .
2 foil pouches each containing one strip of 5 single - dose vials .
Storage and Handling : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Store single - dose vials in the foil pouches .
Opened vials cannot be resealed and should be discarded immediately after use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise patients that drops will sting upon instillation that they may experience blurry vision and sensitivity to light and should protect their eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
These effects may last up to a couple weeks .
• • Advise patients to keep the single - dose vials in the foil pouches until ready to use .
The solution from one single - dose vial is to be used immediately after opening to dose one or both eye ( s ) of a single patient .
The single - dose vial , including any remaining contents , should be discarded immediately after administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients not to touch the tip of the single - dose vial to their eye or to any surface , in order to avoid eye injury or contamination of the solution .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA © 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9775700 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 24208 - 965 - 01 Atropine Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % Sterile FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE NOT FOR INJECTION Rx only 10 x 0 . 4 mL Single - Dose Vials BAUSCH + LOMB 9769500 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
