Active ingredient ( in each softgel ) Docusate sodium 100 mg Purpose Stool softener laxative Uses • for temporary relief of occasional constipation and irregularity • this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • stomach pain • nausea • vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking mineral oil .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding or no bowel movement after using a laxative .
These could be sign of a serious condition .
• you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health care professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • take with a glass of water adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 to 3 softgels daily .
This dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses .
children 2 to under 12 years of age take 1 softgel daily children under 2 years of age ask a doctor Other information • each softgel contains : sodium 7 mg • store at 25ºC ( 77º ) ; excursions permitted between 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients edible ink , FD & C red # 40 , FD & C yellow # 6 , gelatin , glycerin , medium - chain triglycerides * , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol * , purified water sorbitan , sorbitol * contains one or more of these ingredients Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal Display Panel Stool Softener Docusate Sodium , 100 mg Gentle Relief Dependable Relief of Occasional Constipation SOFTGELS Compare to the active ingredient in : Dulcolax ® Stool Softener † † This product is not manufactured or distributed by Boehringer Ingelheim Consumer Health Care Products , Division of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , and owner of the registered traemark Dulcolax ® .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
DISTRIBUTED BY : fred ' s , Inc .
4300 NEW GETWELL RD , MEMPHIS , TN 38118 www . fredsinc . com Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
