Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 11 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 11 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMALOG is a rapid acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
HUMALOG is a rapid acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • Subcutaneous injection ( 2 . 2 ) : • Administer HUMALOG ® U - 100 or U - 200 by subcutaneous injection into the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks within 15 minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal .
• Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
• Continuous subcutaneous infusion ( Insulin Pump ) ( 2 . 2 ) : • Administer HUMALOG U - 100 by continuous subcutaneous infusion using an insulin pump in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer .
• Rotate infusion sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
• DO NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 by continuous subcutaneous infusion .
• Intravenous Infusion ( 2 . 2 ) : • Administer HUMALOG U - 100 by intravenous infusion ONLY after dilution and under medical supervision .
DO NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 by intravenous infusion .
• The dosage of HUMALOG must be individualized based on the route of administration and the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do not perform dose conversion when using the HUMALOG U - 100 or U - 200 prefilled pens .
The dose window shows the number of insulin units to be delivered and no conversion is needed .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • Do not mix HUMALOG U - 200 with any other insulin .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Always check insulin labels before administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Inspect HUMALOG visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use HUMALOG if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• Use HUMALOG prefilled pens with caution in patients with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose .
• Do NOT mix HUMALOG U - 100 with other insulins when administering using a continuous subcutaneous infusion pump .
• Do NOT transfer HUMALOG U - 200 from the prefilled pen to a syringe for administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Do NOT perform dose conversion when using any HUMALOG U - 100 or U - 200 prefilled pens .
The dose window shows the number of insulin units to be delivered and no conversion is needed .
• Do NOT mix HUMALOG U - 200 with any other insulins .
• Do NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 using a continuous subcutaneous infusion pump ( i . e . , insulin pump ) .
• Do NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 intravenously .
2 . 2 Route of Administration Subcutaneous Injection : HUMALOG U - 100 or U - 200 • Administer the dose of HUMALOG U - 100 or HUMALOG U - 200 within fifteen minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal by injection into the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks .
To reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis , rotate the injection site within the same region from one injection to the next .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• HUMALOG administered by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with an intermediate - or long - acting insulin .
• The HUMALOG U - 100 KwikPen , HUMALOG U - 100 Tempo Pen and HUMALOG U - 200 KwikPen each dial in 1 unit increments and delivers a maximum dose of 60 units per injection .
• The HUMALOG U - 100 Junior KwikPen dials in 0 . 5 unit increments and delivers a maximum does of 30 units per injection .
Continuous Subcutaneous Infusion ( Insulin Pump ) : HUMALOG U - 100 ONLY • Do NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 using a continuous subcutaneous infusion pump .
• Administer HUMALOG U - 100 by continuous subcutaneous infusion in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer .
Rotate infusion sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Follow healthcare professional recommendations when setting basal and meal time infusion rate .
• Do NOT dilute or mix HUMALOG U - 100 when administering by continuous subcutaneous infusion .
• Change HUMALOG U - 100 in the pump reservoir at least every 7 days .
• Change the infusion sets and the infusion set insertion site at least every 3 days .
• Do NOT expose HUMALOG U - 100 in the pump reservoir to temperatures greater than 98 . 6 ° F ( 37 ° C ) .
• Use HUMALOG U - 100 in pump systems suitable for insulin infusion [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Intravenous Administration : HUMALOG U - 100 ONLY • Do NOT administer HUMALOG U - 200 intravenously .
• Dilute HUMALOG U - 100 to concentrations from 0 . 1 unit / mL to 1 . 0 unit / mL using 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
• Administer HUMALOG U - 100 intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels to avoid hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Information • Individualize and adjust the dosage of HUMALOG based on route of administration , the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
• Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• Do NOT perform dose conversion when using any HUMALOG U - 100 or U - 200 prefilled pens .
The dose window shows the number of insulin units to be delivered and no conversion is needed .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions • Dosage adjustment may be needed when HUMALOG is coadministered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to HUMALOG [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Instructions for Mixing with Other Insulins HUMALOG U - 100 subcutaneous injection route • HUMALOG U - 100 may be mixed with NPH insulin preparations ONLY .
• If HUMALOG U - 100 is mixed with NPH insulin , HUMALOG U - 100 should be drawn into the syringe first .
Injection should occur immediately after mixing .
HUMALOG U - 100 continuous subcutaneous infusion route ( Insulin Pump ) • Do NOT mix HUMALOG U - 100 with any other insulin .
HUMALOG U - 200 subcutaneous injection route • Do NOT mix with any other insulin .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) clear and colorless solution available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog KwikPen • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog Tempo Pen • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog Junior KwikPen • 3 mL single - patient - use cartridges Injection : 200 units per mL ( U - 200 ) clear and colorless solution available as : • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog KwikPen Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : ( 3 ) • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog KwikPen ® • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog Tempo Pen ™ • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog ® Junior KwikPen ® • 3 mL single - patient - use cartridges Injection : 200 units / mL ( U - 200 ) is available as : ( 3 ) • 3 mL single - patient - use Humalog KwikPen ® 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMALOG is contraindicated : • during episodes of hypoglycemia • in patients who are hypersensitive to HUMALOG or to any of its excipients .
• Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to HUMALOG or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share a HUMALOG prefilled pen , cartridge , reusable pen compatible with Lilly 3 mL cartridges , or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor blood glucose and increase monitoring frequency with changes to insulin dosage , use of glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; and in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 , 7 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
Do not transfer HUMALOG U - 200 from the HUMALOG KwikPen to a syringe as overdosage and severe hypoglycemia can result .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : May be life - threatening .
Discontinue HUMALOG , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hyperglycemia and Ketoacidosis Due to Insulin Pump Device Malfunction : Monitor glucose and administer HUMALOG U - 100 by subcutaneous injection if pump malfunction occurs .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Never Share a HUMALOG Prefilled Pen , Cartridge , Reusable Pen Compatible with Lilly 3 mL Cartridges1 , or Syringe Between Patients HUMALOG prefilled pens , cartridges , and reusable pens compatible with Lilly 3 mL cartridges must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMALOG vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , dosage adjustments of concomitant antidiabetic products may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including HUMALOG .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening , or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulin preparations , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMALOG may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between basal insulin products and other insulins , particularly rapid - acting insulins , have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between HUMALOG and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
Do not transfer HUMALOG U - 200 from the HUMALOG KwikPen to a syringe .
The markings on the insulin syringe will not measure the dose correctly and can result in overdosage and severe hypoglycemia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including HUMALOG .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMALOG ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
HUMALOG is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMALOG or any of its excipients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulin products , including HUMALOG , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMALOG , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
5 . 8 Hyperglycemia and Ketoacidosis Due to Insulin Pump Device Malfunction Malfunction of the insulin pump or insulin infusion set or insulin degradation can rapidly lead to hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis .
Prompt identification and correction of the cause of hyperglycemia or ketosis is necessary .
Interim subcutaneous injections with HUMALOG may be required .
Patients using continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump therapy must be trained to administer insulin by injection and have alternate insulin therapy available in case of pump failure [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with HUMALOG include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , pruritus , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Observed with HUMALOG U - 100 The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying designs , the adverse reaction rates reported in one clinical trial may not be easily compared with those rates reported in another clinical trial , and may not reflect the rates actually observed in clinical practice .
The frequencies of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events during HUMALOG clinical trials in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus are listed in the tables below .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus ( adverse events with frequency ≥ 5 % ) Events , n ( % ) Lispro ( n = 81 ) Regular human insulin ( n = 86 ) Flu syndrome 28 ( 34 . 6 ) 28 ( 32 . 6 ) Pharyngitis 27 ( 33 . 3 ) 29 ( 33 . 7 ) Rhinitis 20 ( 24 . 7 ) 25 ( 29 . 1 ) Headache 24 ( 29 . 6 ) 19 ( 22 . 1 ) Pain 16 ( 19 . 8 ) 14 ( 16 . 3 ) Cough increased 14 ( 17 . 3 ) 15 ( 17 . 4 ) Infection 11 ( 13 . 6 ) 18 ( 20 . 9 ) Nausea 5 ( 6 . 2 ) 13 ( 15 . 1 ) Accidental injury 7 ( 8 . 6 ) 10 ( 11 . 6 ) Surgical procedure 5 ( 6 . 2 ) 12 ( 14 . 0 ) Fever 5 ( 6 . 2 ) 10 ( 11 . 6 ) Abdominal pain 6 ( 7 . 4 ) 7 ( 8 . 1 ) Asthenia 6 ( 7 . 4 ) 7 ( 8 . 1 ) Bronchitis 6 ( 7 . 4 ) 6 ( 7 . 0 ) Diarrhea 7 ( 8 . 6 ) 5 ( 5 . 8 ) Dysmenorrhea 5 ( 6 . 2 ) 6 ( 7 . 0 ) Myalgia 6 ( 7 . 4 ) 5 ( 5 . 8 ) Urinary tract infection 5 ( 6 . 2 ) 4 ( 4 . 7 ) Table 2 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Events in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( adverse events with frequency ≥ 5 % ) Events , n ( % ) Lispro ( n = 714 ) Regular human insulin ( n = 709 ) Headache 83 ( 11 . 6 ) 66 ( 9 . 3 ) Pain 77 ( 10 . 8 ) 71 ( 10 . 0 ) Infection 72 ( 10 . 1 ) 54 ( 7 . 6 ) Pharyngitis 47 ( 6 . 6 ) 58 ( 8 . 2 ) Rhinitis 58 ( 8 . 1 ) 47 ( 6 . 6 ) Flu syndrome 44 ( 6 . 2 ) 58 ( 8 . 2 ) Surgical procedure 53 ( 7 . 4 ) 48 ( 6 . 8 ) Insulin initiation and intensification of glucose control Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
However , long - term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Lipodystrophy Long - term use of insulin , including HUMALOG , can cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated insulin injections or infusion .
Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy ( thickening of adipose tissue ) and lipoatrophy ( thinning of adipose tissue ) , and may affect insulin absorption .
Rotate insulin injection or infusion sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Weight gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapy , including HUMALOG , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
Peripheral Edema Insulin , including HUMALOG , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Adverse Reactions with Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion ( CSII ) — HUMALOG U - 100 In a 12 - week , randomized , crossover study in adult patients with type 1 diabetes ( n = 39 ) , the rates of catheter occlusions and infusion site reactions were similar for HUMALOG U - 100 and regular human insulin treated patients ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Catheter Occlusions and Infusion Site Reactions HUMALOG U - 100 ( n = 38 ) Regular human insulin ( n = 39 ) Catheter occlusions / month 0 . 09 0 . 10 Infusion site reactions 2 . 6 % ( 1 / 38 ) 2 . 6 % ( 1 / 39 ) In a randomized , 16 - week , open - label , parallel design study of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes , adverse event reports related to infusion - site reactions were similar for insulin lispro and insulin aspart ( 21 % of 100 patients versus 17 % of 198 patients , respectively ) .
In both groups , the most frequently reported infusion site adverse events were infusion site erythema and infusion site reaction .
Allergic Reactions Local Allergy — As with any insulin therapy , patients taking HUMALOG may experience redness , swelling , or itching at the site of the injection .
These minor reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks , but in some occasions , may require discontinuation of HUMALOG .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than insulin , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique .
Systemic Allergy — Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , may occur with any insulin , including HUMALOG .
Generalized allergy to insulin may cause whole body rash ( including pruritus ) , dyspnea , wheezing , hypotension , tachycardia , or diaphoresis .
In controlled clinical trials , pruritus ( with or without rash ) was seen in 17 patients receiving regular human insulin ( n = 2969 ) and 30 patients receiving HUMALOG ( n = 2944 ) .
Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have been reported with injected metacresol , which is an excipient in HUMALOG [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Antibody Production In large clinical trials with patients with type 1 ( n = 509 ) and type 2 ( n = 262 ) diabetes mellitus , anti - insulin antibody ( insulin lispro - specific antibodies , insulin - specific antibodies , cross - reactive antibodies ) formation was evaluated in patients receiving both regular human insulin and HUMALOG ( including patients previously treated with human insulin and naive patients ) .
As expected , the largest increase in the antibody levels occurred in patients new to insulin therapy .
The antibody levels peaked by 12 months and declined over the remaining years of the study .
These antibodies do not appear to cause deterioration in glycemic control or necessitate an increase in insulin dose .
There was no statistically significant relationship between the change in the total daily insulin dose and the change in percent antibody binding for any of the antibody types .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience HUMALOG U - 100 The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of HUMALOG .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Medication errors in which other insulins have been accidentally substituted for HUMALOG have been identified during post - approval use [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) • Anti - Adrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia associated with HUMALOG use may be increased when co - administered with antidiabetic agents , salicylates , sulfonamide antibiotics , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , fluoxetine , pramlintide , disopyramide , fibrates , pentoxifylline , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , and somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 2 Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMALOG The glucose lowering effect of HUMALOG may be decreased when co - administered with corticosteroids , isoniazid , niacin , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , albuterol , terbutaline ) , somatropin , atypical antipsychotics , glucagon , protease inhibitors , and thyroid hormones .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 3 Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMALOG The glucose lowering effect of HUMALOG may be increased or decreased with co - administered with beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and alcohol .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 4 Drugs That May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia The signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] may be blunted when beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine are co - administered with HUMALOG .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatrics : Not studied in children with type 2 diabetes or in children with type 1 diabetes < 3 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with HUMALOG in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Published studies with insulin lispro used during pregnancy have not reported an association between insulin lispro and the induction of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Pregnant rats and rabbits were exposed to insulin lispro in animal reproduction studies during organogenesis .
No adverse effects on embryo / fetal viability or morphology were observed in offspring of rats exposed to insulin lispro at a dose approximately 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day .
No adverse effects on embryo / fetal development were observed in offspring of rabbits exposed to insulin lispro at doses up to approximately 0 . 2 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from retrospective studies and meta - analyses do not report an association with insulin lispro and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when insulin lispro is used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish or exclude the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations including small sample size , selection bias , confounding by unmeasured factors , and some lacking comparator groups .
Animal Data In a combined fertility and embryo - fetal development study , female rats were given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 1 , 5 , and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) from 2 weeks prior to cohabitation through Gestation Day 19 .
There were no adverse effects on female fertility , implantation , or fetal viability and morphology .
However , fetal growth retardation was produced at the 20 units / kg / day - dose as indicated by decreased fetal weight and an increased incidence of fetal runts / litter .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits , insulin lispro doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 75 unit / kg / day ( 0 . 03 , 0 . 08 , and 0 . 2 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) were injected subcutaneously on Gestation days 7 through 19 .
There were no adverse effects on fetal viability , weight , and morphology at any dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of HUMALOG in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
One small published study reported that exogenous insulin was present in human milk .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of HUMALOG on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of HUMALOG on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for insulin , any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMALOG or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use HUMALOG is approved for use in children for subcutaneous daily injections [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Only the U - 100 formulation of HUMALOG is approved for use in children by continuous subcutaneous infusion in insulin pumps .
HUMALOG has not been studied in pediatric patients younger than 3 years of age .
HUMALOG has not been studied in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes .
As in adults , the dosage of HUMALOG must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and results of frequent monitoring of blood glucose .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects ( n = 2834 ) in eight clinical studies of HUMALOG , twelve percent ( n = 338 ) were 65 years of age or over .
The majority of these had type 2 diabetes .
HbA1c values and hypoglycemia rates did not differ by age .
Pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic studies to assess the effect of age on the onset of HUMALOG action have not been performed .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMALOG dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMALOG dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION Insulin lispro injection is a rapid - acting human insulin analog .
Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli .
Insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline .
Chemically , it is Lys ( B28 ) , Pro ( B29 ) human insulin analog and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 and a molecular weight of 5808 , both identical to that of human insulin .
HUMALOG has the following primary structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] HUMALOG ( insulin lispro injection ) is a sterile , aqueous , clear , and colorless solution for subcutaneous or intravenous use .
Each milliliter of HUMALOG U - 100 contains 100 units of insulin lispro , dibasic sodium phosphate ( 1 . 88 mg ) , glycerin ( 16 mg ) , Metacresol ( 3 . 15 mg ) , zinc oxide ( content adjusted to provide 0 . 0197 mg zinc ion ) , trace amounts of phenol , and Water for Injection , USP .
Each milliliter of HUMALOG U - 200 contains 200 units of insulin lispro , glycerin ( 16 mg ) , Metacresol ( 3 . 15 mg ) , tromethamine ( 5 mg ) , zinc oxide ( content adjusted to provide 0 . 046 mg zinc ion ) , trace amounts of phenol , and Water for Injection , USP .
Insulin lispro has a pH of 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
The pH is adjusted by addition of aqueous solutions of hydrochloric acid 10 % and / or sodium hydroxide 10 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Regulation of glucose metabolism is the primary activity of insulins and insulin analogs , including insulin lispro .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics HUMALOG has been shown to be equipotent to human insulin on a molar basis .
One unit of HUMALOG has the same glucose - lowering effect as one unit of regular human insulin .
Studies in normal volunteers and patients with diabetes demonstrated that HUMALOG has a more rapid onset of action and a shorter duration of activity than regular human insulin when given subcutaneously .
The time course of action of insulin and insulin analogs , such as HUMALOG , may vary considerably in different individuals or within the same individual .
The parameters of HUMALOG activity ( time of onset , peak time , and duration ) as designated in Figure 1 should be considered only as general guidelines .
The rate of insulin absorption , and consequently the onset of activity are known to be affected by the site of injection , exercise , and other variables [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] a Baseline insulin concentration was maintained by infusion of 0 . 2 mU / min / kg human insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Intravenous Administration of HUMALOG U - 100 — The glucose lowering effect of intravenously administered HUMALOG was tested in 21 patients with type 1 diabetes .
For the study , the patients ' usual doses of insulin were held and blood glucose concentrations were allowed to reach a stable range of 200 to 260 mg / dL during a one to three hours run - in phase .
The run - in phase was followed by a 6 - hour assessment phase .
During the assessment phase , patients received intravenous HUMALOG at an initial infusion rate of 0 . 5 units / hour .
The infusion rate of HUMALOG could be adjusted at regular timed intervals to achieve and maintain blood glucose concentrations between 100 to 160 mg / dL .
The mean blood glucose levels during the assessment phase for patients on HUMALOG therapy are summarized below in Table 4 .
All patients achieved the targeted glucose range at some point during the 6 - hour assessment phase .
At the endpoint , blood glucose was within the target range ( 100 to 160 mg / dL ) for 17 of 20 patients treated with HUMALOG .
The average time ( ± SE ) required to attain near normoglycemia was 129 ± 14 minutes for HUMALOG .
Table 4 : Mean Blood Glucose Concentrations ( mg / dL ) During Intravenous Infusions of HUMALOG U - 100 a Results shown as mean ± SD Time from Start of Infusion ( minutes ) Mean Blood Glucose ( mg / dL ) Intravenousa 0 224 ± 16 30 205 ± 21 60 195 ± 20 120 165 ± 26 180 140 ± 26 240 123 ± 20 300 120 ± 27 360 122 ± 25 The pharmacodynamics of a single 20 unit dose of HUMALOG U - 200 administered subcutaneously were compared to the pharmacodynamics of a single 20 unit dose of HUMALOG U - 100 administered subcutaneously in a euglycemic clamp study enrolling healthy subjects .
In this study , the overall , maximum , and time to maximum glucose lowering effect were similar between HUMALOG U - 200 and HUMALOG U - 100 .
The mean area under the glucose infusion rate curves ( measure of overall pharmacodynamic effect ) were 125 g and 126 g for HUMALOG U - 200 and HUMALOG U - 100 , respectively .
The maximum glucose infusion rate was 534 mg / min and 559 mg / min and the corresponding median time ( min , max ) to maximum effect were 2 . 8 h ( 0 . 5 h – 6 . 3 h ) and 2 . 4 h ( 0 . 5 h – 4 . 7 h ) for HUMALOG U - 200 and HUMALOG U - 100 , respectively .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability — Studies in healthy volunteers and patients with diabetes demonstrated that HUMALOG is absorbed more quickly than regular human insulin .
In healthy volunteers given subcutaneous doses of HUMALOG ranging from 0 . 1 to 0 . 4 unit / kg , peak serum levels were seen 30 to 90 minutes after dosing .
When healthy volunteers received equivalent doses of regular human insulin , peak insulin levels occurred between 50 to 120 minutes after dosing .
Similar results were seen in patients with type 1 diabetes ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] a Baseline insulin concentration was maintained by infusion of 0 . 2 mU / min / kg human insulin .
HUMALOG U - 100 was absorbed at a consistently faster rate than regular human insulin in healthy male volunteers given 0 . 2 unit / kg at abdominal , deltoid , or femoral subcutaneous sites .
After HUMALOG was administered in the abdomen , serum drug levels were higher and the duration of action was slightly shorter than after deltoid or thigh administration .
Bioavailability of HUMALOG is similar to that of regular human insulin .
The absolute bioavailability after subcutaneous injection ranges from 55 % to 77 % with doses between 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 unit / kg , inclusive .
The results of a study in healthy subjects demonstrated that HUMALOG U - 200 is bioequivalent to HUMALOG U - 100 following administration of a single 20 unit dose .
The mean observed area under the serum insulin concentration - time curve from time zero to infinity was 2360 pmol hr / L and 2390 pmol hr / L for HUMALOG U - 200 and HUMALOG U - 100 , respectively .
The corresponding mean peak serum insulin concentration was 795 pmol / L and 909 pmol / L for HUMALOG U - 200 and HUMALOG U - 100 , respectively .
The median time to maximum concentration was 1 . 0 hour for both formulations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution — When administered intravenously as bolus injections of 0 . 1 and 0 . 2 U / kg dose in two separate groups of healthy subjects , the mean volume of distribution of HUMALOG appeared to decrease with increase in dose ( 1 . 55 and 0 . 72 L / kg , respectively ) in contrast to that of regular human insulin for which , the volume of distribution was comparable across the two dose groups ( 1 . 37 and 1 . 12 L / kg for 0 . 1 and 0 . 2 U / kg dose , respectively ) .
Metabolism — Human metabolism studies have not been conducted .
However , animal studies indicate that the metabolism of HUMALOG is identical to that of regular human insulin .
Elimination — After subcutaneous administration of HUMALOG , the t1 / 2 is shorter than that of regular human insulin ( 1 versus 1 . 5 hours , respectively ) .
When administered intravenously , HUMALOG and regular human insulin demonstrated similar dose - dependent clearance , with a mean clearance of 21 . 0 mL / min / kg and 21 . 4 mL / min / kg , respectively ( 0 . 1 unit / kg dose ) , and 9 . 6 mL / min / kg and 9 . 4 mL / min / kg , respectively ( 0 . 2 unit / kg dose ) .
Accordingly , HUMALOG demonstrated a mean t1 / 2 of 0 . 85 hours ( 51 minutes ) and 0 . 92 hours ( 55 minutes ) , respectively for 0 . 1 unit / kg and 0 . 2 unit / kg doses , and regular human insulin mean t1 / 2 was 0 . 79 hours ( 47 minutes ) and 1 . 28 hours ( 77 minutes ) , respectively for 0 . 1 unit / kg and 0 . 2 unit / kg doses .
Specific Populations The effects of age , gender , race , obesity , pregnancy , or smoking on the pharmacokinetics of HUMALOG have not been studied .
Renal Impairment — Type 2 diabetic patients with varying degree of renal impairment showed no difference in pharmacokinetics of regular insulin and HUMALOG .
However , the sensitivity of the patients to insulin did change , with an increased response to insulin as the renal function declined .
Some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with renal impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including HUMALOG , may be necessary in patients with renal dysfunction .
Hepatic Impairment — Type 2 diabetic patients with impaired hepatic function showed no effect on the pharmacokinetics of HUMALOG as compared to patients with no hepatic dysfunction .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with liver failure .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including HUMALOG , may be necessary in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
In Fischer 344 rats , a 12 - month repeat - dose toxicity study was conducted with insulin lispro at subcutaneous doses of 20 and 200 units / kg / day ( approximately 3 and 32 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) .
Insulin lispro did not produce important target organ toxicity including mammary tumors at any dose .
Insulin lispro was not mutagenic in the following genetic toxicity assays : bacterial mutation , unscheduled DNA synthesis , mouse lymphoma , chromosomal aberration and micronucleus assays .
Male fertility was not compromised when male rats given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 5 and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 8 and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) for 6 months were mated with untreated female rats .
In a combined fertility , perinatal , and postnatal study in male and female rats given 1 , 5 , and 20 units / kg / day subcutaneously ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) , mating and fertility were not adversely affected in either gender at any dose .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In standard biological assays in fasted rabbits , 0 . 2 unit / kg of insulin lispro injected subcutaneously had the same glucose - lowering effect and had a more rapid onset of action as 0 . 2 unit / kg of regular human insulin .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of HUMALOG U - 100 were studied in children , adolescent , and adult patients with type 1 diabetes ( n = 789 ) and adult patients with type 2 diabetes ( n = 722 ) .
14 . 1 Type 1 Diabetes – Adults and Adolescents A 12 - month , randomized , parallel , open - label , active - controlled study was conducted in patients with type 1 diabetes to assess the safety and efficacy of HUMALOG ( n = 81 ) compared with Humulin ® R [ insulin human injection ( 100 units per mL ) ] ( n = 86 ) .
HUMALOG was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and Humulin R was administered 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
Humulin ® U [ ULTRALENTE ® human insulin ( rDNA origin ) extended zinc suspension ] was administered once or twice daily as the basal insulin .
There was a 2 - to 4 - week run - in period with Humulin R and Humulin U before randomization .
Most patients were Caucasian ( 97 % ) .
Forty - seven percent of the patients were male .
The mean age was 31 years ( range 12 to 70 years ) .
Glycemic control , the total daily doses of HUMALOG and Humulin R , and the incidence of severe hypoglycemia ( as determined by the number of events that were not self - treated ) were similar in the two treatment groups .
There were no episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis in either treatment group .
Table 5 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Adults and Adolescents a Values are Mean ± SD b Severe hypoglycemia refers to hypoglycemia for which patients were not able to self - treat .
Treatment Duration Treatment in Combination with : 12 months Humulin U HUMALOG Humulin R N 81 86 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) a 8 . 2 ± 1 . 4 8 . 3 ± 1 . 7 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) a - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 9 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 Treatment Difference in HbA1c Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 0 , 0 . 8 ) Baseline short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) 0 . 3 ± 0 . 1 0 . 3 ± 0 . 1 End - of - Study short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) 0 . 3 ± 0 . 1 0 . 3 ± 0 . 1 Change from baseline short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) 0 . 0 ± 0 . 1 0 . 0 ± 0 . 1 Baseline Body weight ( kg ) 72 ± 12 . 7 71 ± 11 . 3 Weight change from baseline ( kg ) 1 . 4 ± 3 . 6 1 . 0 ± 2 . 6 Patients with severe hypoglycemia ( n , % ) b 14 ( 17 % ) 18 ( 21 % ) 14 . 2 Type 2 Diabetes – Adults A 6 - month randomized , crossover , open - label , active - controlled study was conducted in insulin - treated patients with type 2 diabetes ( n = 722 ) to assess the safety and efficacy of HUMALOG for 3 months followed by Humulin R for 3 months or the reverse sequence .
HUMALOG was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately before meals and Humulin R was administered 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
Humulin ® N [ NPH human insulin ( rDNA origin ) isophane suspension ] or Humulin U was administered once or twice daily as the basal insulin .
All patients participated in a 2 - to 4 - week run - in period with Humulin R and Humulin N or Humulin U . Most of the patients were Caucasian ( 88 % ) , and the numbers of men and women in each group were approximately equal .
The mean age was 58 . 6 years ( range 23 . 8 to 85 years ) .
The average body mass index ( BMI ) was 28 . 2 kg / m2 .
During the study , the majority of patients used Humulin N ( 84 % ) compared with Humulin U ( 16 % ) as their basal insulin .
The reductions from baseline in HbA1c and the incidence of severe hypoglycemia ( as determined by the number of events that were not self - treated ) were similar between the two treatments from the combined groups ( see Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus — Adults a Values are Mean ± SD b Severe hypoglycemia refers to hypoglycemia for which patients were not able to self - treat .
End point Baseline HUMALOG + Basal Humulin R + Basal HbA1c ( % ) a 8 . 9 ± 1 . 7 8 . 2 ± 1 . 3 8 . 2 ± 1 . 4 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) a — - 0 . 7 ± 1 . 4 - 0 . 7 ± 1 . 3 Short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) a 0 . 3 ± 0 . 2 0 . 3 ± 0 . 2 0 . 3 ± 0 . 2 Change from baseline short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) a — 0 . 0 ± 0 . 1 0 . 0 ± 0 . 1 Body weight ( kg ) a 80 ± 15 81 ± 15 81 ± 15 Weight change from baseline — 0 . 8 ± 2 . 7 0 . 9 ± 2 . 6 Patients with severe hypoglycemia ( n , % ) b — 15 ( 2 % ) 16 ( 2 % ) 14 . 3 Type 1 Diabetes – Pediatric and Adolescents An 8 - month , crossover study of adolescents with type 1 diabetes ( n = 463 ) , aged 9 to 19 years , compared two subcutaneous multiple - dose treatment regimens : HUMALOG or Humulin R , both administered with Humulin N ( NPH human insulin ) as the basal insulin .
HUMALOG achieved glycemic control comparable to Humulin R , as measured by HbA1c ( see Table 7 ) , and both treatment groups had a comparable incidence of hypoglycemia .
In a 9 - month , crossover study of prepubescent children ( n = 60 ) with type 1 diabetes , aged 3 to 11 years , HUMALOG administered immediately before meals , HUMALOG administered immediately after meals and Humulin R administered 30 minutes before meals resulted in similar glycemic control , as measured by HbA1c , and incidence of hypoglycemia , regardless of treatment group .
Table 7 : Pediatric Subcutaneous Administration of HUMALOG in Type 1 Diabetes a Values are Mean ± SD b Severe hypoglycemia refers to hypoglycemia that required glucagon or glucose injection or resulted in coma .
End point Baseline HUMALOG + NPH Humulin R + NPH HbA1c ( % ) a 8 . 6 ± 1 . 5 8 . 7 ± 1 . 5 8 . 7 ± 1 . 6 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) a — 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 0 . 1 ± 1 . 3 Short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) a 0 . 5 ± 0 . 2 0 . 5 ± 0 . 2 0 . 5 ± 0 . 2 Change from baseline short - acting insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) a — 0 . 01 ± 0 . 1 - 0 . 01 ± 0 . 1 Body weight ( kg ) a 59 . 1 ± 13 . 1 61 . 1 ± 12 . 7 61 . 4 ± 12 . 9 Weight change from baseline ( kg ) a — 2 . 0 ± 3 . 1 2 . 3 ± 3 . 0 Patients with severe hypoglycemia ( n , % ) b — 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) 5 ( 1 . 1 % ) Diabetic ketoacidosis ( n , % ) — 11 ( 2 . 4 % ) 9 ( 1 . 9 % ) 14 . 4 Type 1 Diabetes – Adults Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion To evaluate the administration of HUMALOG U - 100 via external insulin pumps , two open - label , crossover design studies were performed in patients with type 1 diabetes .
One study involved 39 patients , ages 19 to 58 years , treated for 24 weeks with HUMALOG or regular human insulin .
After 12 weeks of treatment , the mean HbA1c values decreased from 7 . 8 % to 7 . 2 % in the HUMALOG - treated patients and from 7 . 8 % to 7 . 5 % in the regular human insulin - treated patients .
Another study involved 60 patients ( mean age 39 , range 15 to 58 years ) treated for 24 weeks with either HUMALOG or buffered regular human insulin .
After 12 weeks of treatment , the mean HbA1c values decreased from 7 . 7 % to 7 . 4 % in the HUMALOG - treated patients and remained unchanged from 7 . 7 % in the buffered regular human insulin - treated patients .
Rates of hypoglycemia were comparable between treatment groups in both studies .
14 . 5 Type 1 Diabetes – Pediatric Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion A randomized , 16 - week , open - label , parallel design , study of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes ( n = 298 ) aged 4 to 18 years compared two subcutaneous infusion regimens administered via an external insulin pump : insulin aspart ( n = 198 ) or HUMALOG U - 100 ( n = 100 ) .
These two treatments resulted in comparable changes from baseline in HbA1c and comparable rates of hypoglycemia after 16 weeks of treatment ( see Table 8 ) .
Infusion site reactions were similar between groups .
Table 8 : Pediatric Insulin Pump Study in Type 1 Diabetes ( 16 weeks ; n = 298 ) a Values are Mean ± SD b Severe hypoglycemia refers to hypoglycemia associated with central nervous system symptoms and requiring the intervention of another person or hospitalization .
HUMALOG Aspart N 100 198 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) a 8 . 2 ± 0 . 8 8 . 0 ± 0 . 9 Change from Baseline HbA1c ( % ) - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 7 - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 8 Treatment Difference in HbA1c , Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 1 ) Baseline insulin dose ( units / kg / 24 hours ) a 0 . 9 ± 0 . 3 0 . 9 ± 0 . 3 End - of - Study insulin dose ( units / kg / 24 hours ) a 0 . 9 ± 0 . 2 0 . 9 ± 0 . 2 Patients with severe hypoglycemia ( n , % ) b 8 ( 8 % ) 19 ( 10 % ) Diabetic ketoacidosis ( n , % ) 0 ( 0 ) 1 ( 0 . 5 % ) Baseline body weight ( kg ) a 55 . 5 ± 19 . 0 54 . 1 ± 19 . 7 Weight Change from baseline ( kg ) a 1 . 6 ± 2 . 1 1 . 8 ± 2 . 1 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 4073 NDC : 50090 - 4073 - 0 3 mL in a SYRINGE / 5 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share a HUMALOG Prefilled Pen , Cartridge , Reusable Pen Compatible with Lilly 3 mL Cartridges , or Syringe Between Patients Advise patients that they must never share a HUMALOG prefilled pen , cartridge , or reusable pen compatible with Lilly 3 mL cartridges with another person , even if the needle is changed .
Advise patients using HUMALOG vials not to share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of HUMALOG therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with HUMALOG .
Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Medication Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection to avoid mix - ups between insulin products .
Inform patients that HUMALOG U - 200 contains 2 times as much insulin in 1 mL as HUMALOG U - 100 .
Inform patients that the HUMALOG U - 200 KwikPen dose window shows the number of units of HUMALOG U - 200 to be injected and that no dose conversion is required .
Instruct patients to NOT transfer HUMALOG U - 200 from the HUMALOG KwikPen to a syringe .
The markings on the syringe will not measure the dose correctly and this can result in overdosage and severe hypoglycemia .
Administration Instruction for HUMALOG U - 200 Instruct patients to NOT mix HUMALOG U - 200 with any other insulin .
Instructions For Patients Using Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Pumps Patients using external pump infusion therapy should be trained appropriately .
The following insulin pumps have been tested in HUMALOG clinical trials conducted by Eli Lilly and Company .
• Disetronic ® H - Tron ® plus V100 , D - Tron ® and D - Tronplus ® with Disetronic Rapid infusion sets2 • MiniMed ® Models 506 , 507 and 508 and Polyfin ® infusion sets3 HUMALOG is recommended for use in pump systems suitable for insulin infusion such as MiniMed , Disetronic , and other equivalent pumps .
Before using HUMALOG in a pump system , read the pump label to make sure the pump is indicated for continuous delivery of fast - acting insulin .
HUMALOG is recommended for use in any reservoir and infusion sets that are compatible with insulin and the specific pump .
Please see recommended reservoir and infusion sets in the pump manual .
Do not use HUMALOG U - 200 in an external insulin pump .
To avoid insulin degradation , infusion set occlusion , and loss of the preservative ( metacresol ) , insulin in the reservoir should be replaced at least every 7 days ; infusion sets and infusion set insertion sites should be changed at least every 3 days .
Insulin exposed to temperatures higher than 98 . 6 ° F ( 37 ° C ) should be discarded .
The temperature of the insulin may exceed ambient temperature when the pump housing , cover , tubing or sport case is exposed to sunlight or radiant heat .
Infusion sites that are erythematous , pruritic , or thickened should be reported to the healthcare professional , and a new site selected because continued infusion may increase the skin reaction or alter the absorption of HUMALOG .
Pump or infusion set malfunctions or insulin degradation can lead to rapid hyperglycemia and ketosis .
This is especially pertinent for rapid acting insulin analogs that are more rapidly absorbed through skin and have a shorter duration of action .
Prompt identification and correction of the cause of hyperglycemia or ketosis is necessary .
Problems include pump malfunction , infusion set occlusion , leakage , disconnection or kinking , and degraded insulin .
Less commonly , hypoglycemia from pump malfunction may occur .
If these problems cannot be promptly corrected , patients should resume therapy with subcutaneous insulin injection and contact their healthcare professionals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
____________ 1 3 mL cartridge is for use in Eli Lilly and Company ' s HumaPen ® Luxura ® HD insulin delivery device , and Disetronic D - TRON ® and D - TRON ® Plus pumps .
Humalog ® , Humalog KwikPen ® , Humalog Tempo Pen ™ , Humalog ® Junior KwikPen ® , HumaPen ® , HumaPen ® Luxura ® and HumaPen ® Luxura ® HD are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
2 Disetronic ® , H - Tron ® , D - Tron ® , and D - Tronplus ® are registered trademarks of Roche Diagnostics GmbH .
3 MiniMed ® and Polyfin ® are registered trademarks of MiniMed , Inc .
Other product and company names may be the trademarks of their respective owners .
Literature revised November 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA www . humalog . com Copyright © 1996 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LOG - 0009 - USPI - 20191115 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : November 2019 Patient Information HUMALOG ® ( HU - ma - log ) insulin lispro injection U - 100 ( 100 units per mL ) for subcutaneous or intravenous use Do not share your Humalog prefilled pens , cartridges , reusable pen compatible with Lilly 3 mL cartridges , needles , or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is HUMALOG ?
• HUMALOG is a man - made fast - acting insulin used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
• It is not known if HUMALOG is safe and effective in children younger than 3 years of age or when used to treat children with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Who should not take HUMALOG ?
Do not take HUMALOG if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to HUMALOG or any of the ingredients in HUMALOG .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in HUMALOG .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking HUMALOG ?
Before taking HUMALOG , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney or liver problems .
• take any other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while taking HUMALOG .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Before you start taking HUMALOG , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I take HUMALOG ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that comes with your HUMALOG .
• Take HUMALOG exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much HUMALOG to take and when to take it .
• HUMALOG starts acting fast .
Inject HUMALOG within 15 minutes before or right after you eat a meal .
• Know the type , strength and amount of insulin you take .
Do not change the type or amount of insulin you take unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take different types of insulin .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are taking the correct insulin .
• Inject HUMALOG under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms , or by continuous infusion under the skin ( subcutaneously ) through an insulin pump into an area of your body recommended in the instructions that come with your insulin pump .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep HUMALOG and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Your dose of HUMALOG may need to change because of a : • change in physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while taking HUMALOG ?
While taking HUMALOG do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how HUMALOG affects you .
• drink alcohol or take prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of HUMALOG ?
HUMALOG may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • dizziness or light - headedness • sweating • confusion • headache • blurred vision • slurred speech • shakiness • fast heartbeat • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • hunger Your healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon emergency kit so that someone else can give you glucagon if your blood sugar becomes too low ( severe hypoglycemia ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• serious allergic reactions ( whole body allergic reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body • trouble breathing • a fast heartbeat • sweating • feel faint • low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with HUMALOG may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with HUMALOG .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath • swelling of your ankles or feet • sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and HUMALOG may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing • shortness of breath • fast heartbeat • swelling of your face , tongue , or throat • sweating • extreme drowsiness • dizziness • confusion The most common side effects of HUMALOG include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • reactions at your injection site • skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) • weight gain • swelling in your hands or feet • itching • rash These are not all the possible side effects of HUMALOG .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMALOG .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take HUMALOG for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HUMALOG to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about HUMALOG .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HUMALOG that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in HUMALOG ?
Active ingredient : insulin lispro Inactive ingredients : dibasic sodium phosphate , glycerin , metacresol , zinc oxide ( zinc ion ) , trace amounts of phenol and Water for Injection , USP .
Humalog ® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1996 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . humalog . com or call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 .
LOG - 0006 - PPI - 20191115 Instructions for Use HUMALOG ® ( HU - ma - log ) ( insulin lispro injection ) Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG and each time you get a new vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your needles or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection • a multiple - dose HUMALOG vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • gauze • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ Disposing of used needles and syringes ” at the end of these instructions .
Vial Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing your HUMALOG dose • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the HUMALOG label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• HUMALOG should look clear and colorless .
Do not use HUMALOG if it is thick , cloudy , or colored , or if you see lumps or particles in it .
• Do not use HUMALOG past the expiration date printed on the label or 28 days after you first use it .
• Always use a new syringe and needle for each injection to prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : If you are using a new vial , pull off the plastic Protective Cap , but do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Remove the Needle Shield from the syringe by pulling the Needle Shield straight off .
Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger until the Plunger Tip reaches the line for the number of units for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 4 : Push the needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Push the Plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the Plunger down until the Plunger Tip is a few units past the line for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units Plunger is shown at 24 units ) If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently a few times to let any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the Plunger Tip reaches the line for your prescribed dose .
Check the syringe to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 8 : Pull the syringe out of the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you use HUMALOG with NPH insulin : • NPH insulin is the only type of insulin that can be mixed with HUMALOG .
Do not mix HUMALOG with any other type of insulin .
• HUMALOG should be drawn up into the syringe first , before you draw up your NPH insulin .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are not sure about the right way to mix HUMALOG and NPH insulin .
• Give your injection right away .
Giving your HUMALOG Injection with a syringe • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you should pinch the skin before injecting .
• HUMALOG starts acting fast , so give your injection within 15 minutes before or right after you eat a meal .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Step 9 : Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
The needle should stay in your skin for at least 5 seconds to make sure you have injected all of your insulin dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Pull the needle out of your skin .
• If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving your HUMALOG using an insulin pump • HUMALOG should be given into an area of your body recommended in the instructions that come with your insulin pump .
• Change ( rotate ) your insertion site every 3 days .
• Change ( rotate ) your insertion sites within the area you choose for each insertion to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the insertion sites .
Do not insert into the exact same spot for each insertion .
Do not insert where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not insert where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Change the insulin in the reservoir at least every 7 days , even if you have not used all of the insulin .
• Do not dilute or mix HUMALOG with any other type of insulin in your insulin pump .
• See your insulin pump manual for instructions or talk to your healthcare provider .
Disposing of used needles and syringes • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store HUMALOG ?
All unopened vials : • Store all unopened vials in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use if HUMALOG has been frozen .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 28 days , if they are stored at room temperature .
After vials have been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 28 days .
• Keep vials away from heat and out of direct light .
• Throw away all opened vials after 28 days of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
Keep HUMALOG vials , syringes , needles and all medicines out of the reach of children .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch the humalog . com website This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humalog ® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : November 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1996 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LOGVL - 0008 - IFU - 20191125 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMALOG KwikPen ® insulin lispro injection 100 units / mL , 3 mL single - patient - use pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG ® and each time you get another KwikPen ® .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMALOG KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMALOG KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMALOG .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 1 unit of insulin .
You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMALOG KwikPen • Pen color : Dark blue • Dose Knob : Dark blue • Labels : White label with burgundy stripe Supplies you will need to give your injection • HUMALOG KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 28 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• – Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMALOG should look clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy , colored , or has particles or clumps in it .
Step 3 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 6 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 6 to 8 , no more than 4 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 6 to 8 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 9 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 10 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
• Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 13 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 15 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMALOG Pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG KwikPen and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humalog . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMALOG ® and HUMALOG KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : April 2020 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2007 , 2020 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMALOG KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LOGKP - 0008 - IFU - 20200407 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMALOG ® Junior KwikPen ® insulin lispro injection 100 units / mL , 3 mL single - patient - use pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG and each time you get another HUMALOG ® Junior KwikPen ® .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMALOG Junior KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMALOG Junior KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMALOG .
• You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
• Each turn of the Dose Knob dials 0 . 5 ( ½ ) unit of insulin .
You can give from 0 . 5 ( ½ ) to 30 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 30 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
• The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMALOG Junior KwikPen : • Pen color : • Dose Knob : • Label : Blue Blue , with raised ridges on end and side White with an orange color bar and orange - to - yellow color band Supplies needed to give your injection : • HUMALOG Junior KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( BD [ Becton , Dickinson and Company ] Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 28 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• – Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMALOG should look clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy , colored , or has particles or clumps in it .
Step 3 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 6 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : • Continue holding your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• – If you do not see insulin , repeat the priming steps 6 to 8 , but not more than 4 times .
• – If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat the priming steps 6 to 8 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 0 . 5 ( ½ ) to 30 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 30 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• – If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• – You must use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 9 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• – The Pen dials 0 . 5 ( ½ ) unit at a time .
• – The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• – Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• – The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• – The whole unit numbers ( for example , 4 ) are printed on the dial .
• – The half units are shown as lines between the whole unit numbers .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Example : 4 units shown in the Dose Window [ MULTIMEDIA ] Example : 10 . 5 ( 10 ½ ) units shown in the Dose Window • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • – inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • – get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 10 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
• – A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window • – If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• – If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• – If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat that injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• – If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The Plunger only moves a little with each injection and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
After your injection Step 13 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 15 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used Needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • – made of a heavy - duty plastic , • – can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • – upright and stable during use , • – leak - resistant , and • – properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle the container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMALOG Pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and Needles out of the sight and reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • – Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• – Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• – You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG Junior KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG Junior KwikPen and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humalog . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMALOG ® and HUMALOG ® Junior KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : November 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2017 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMALOG Junior KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LOGJRKP - 0003 - IFU - 20191115 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMALOG ® Tempo Pen ™ insulin lispro injection 100 units / mL , 3 mL pen , single - patient - use [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG and each time you get another HUMALOG Tempo Pen .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMALOG Tempo Pen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMALOG Tempo Pen ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMALOG .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 1 unit of insulin .
You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
This HUMALOG Tempo Pen contains a component that allows for data connectivity when used with a compatible transmitter .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMALOG Tempo Pen • Pen color : Dark blue • Dose Knob : Burgundy • Labels : White label with burgundy stripe Supplies you will need to give your injection • HUMALOG Tempo Pen • Tempo Pen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 28 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• - Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMALOG should look clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy , colored , or has particles or clumps in it .
Step 3 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 6 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : • Continue holding your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 6 to 8 , but no more than 4 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 6 to 8 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 9 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you cannot inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 10 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
• Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood sugar ( glucose ) as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 13 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 15 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be thrown away ( discarded ) in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unopened Pens • Store unopened Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unopened Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMALOG Tempo Pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you cannot remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG Tempo Pen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG Tempo Pen and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humalog . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMALOG ® is a registered trademark and TEMPO PENTM is a trademark of Eli Lilly and Company .
Issued : 11 / 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMALOG Tempo Pen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LOGTP - 0001 - IFU - 20191115 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : November 2019 Patient Information HUMALOG KwikPen ® insulin lispro injection U - 200 ( 200 units per mL ) Do not share your HUMALOG KwikPen or needles with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
What is HUMALOG ?
• HUMALOG is a rapid - acting man - made insulin used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
• This single - patient - use HUMALOG KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) contains 2 times as much insulin ( 200 U / mL ) in 1 mL as standard insulin ( 100 U / mL ) .
• It is not known if HUMALOG is safe and effective in children less than 3 years of age .
• It is not known if HUMALOG is safe and effective in children with type 2 diabetes .
Who should not take HUMALOG ?
Do not take HUMALOG if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to insulin lispro or any of the ingredients in HUMALOG .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in HUMALOG .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking HUMALOG ?
Before taking HUMALOG , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver or kidney problems • take any other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while taking HUMALOG .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Before you start taking HUMALOG , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use HUMALOG KwikPen ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your HUMALOG KwikPen .
• Use HUMALOG KwikPen exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much HUMALOG to take and when to take it .
• Know the type , strength and amount of insulin you take .
Do not change the type or amount of insulin you take unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take different types of insulin .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are taking the correct insulin .
• HUMALOG comes in a KwikPen which is a disposable single - patient use prefilled pen that you must use to give your HUMALOG .
The dose window on your pen shows your dose of HUMALOG .
Do not make any dose changes unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Do not use a syringe to remove HUMALOG from your KwikPen disposable prefilled pen .
• Do not re - use needles .
Always use a new needle for each injection .
Re - use of needles increases your risk of having blocked needles , which may cause you to get the wrong dose of HUMALOG .
Using a new needle for each injection also lowers your risk of getting an infection .
If your needle is blocked , follow the instructions in the “ General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen ” section of the Instructions for Use .
• HUMALOG is a rapid - acting insulin .
Inject HUMALOG within 15 minutes before or right after eating a meal .
• Inject HUMALOG under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Do not use HUMALOG KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) in an insulin pump or inject HUMALOG KwikPen into your vein ( intravenously ) .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not mix the HUMALOG in the HUMALOG KwikPen with any other type of insulin or liquid medicine .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugar should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep HUMALOG KwikPen and all medicines out of reach of children .
Your dose of HUMALOG may need to change because of a : • change in physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while using HUMALOG KwikPen ?
While using HUMALOG KwikPen do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how HUMALOG KwikPen affects you • drink alcohol or take prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol What are the possible side effects of HUMALOG ?
HUMALOG may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • dizziness or light - headedness • sweating • confusion • headache • blurred vision • slurred speech • shakiness • fast heartbeat • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • hunger Your healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon emergency kit so that someone else can give you glucagon if your blood sugar becomes too low ( severe hypoglycemia ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body • trouble breathing • a fast heartbeat • sweating • low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with HUMALOG may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with HUMALOG .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath • swelling of your ankles or feet • sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and HUMALOG may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing • shortness of breath • fast heartbeat • swelling of your face , tongue , or throat • sweating • extreme drowsiness • dizziness • confusion The most common side effects of HUMALOG include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • reactions at your injection site • skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) • weight gain • swelling in your hands or feet • itching • rash These are not all of the possible side effects of HUMALOG .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General Information about the safe and effective use of HUMALOG KwikPen .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take HUMALOG for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HUMALOG to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about HUMALOG KwikPen .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HUMALOG that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in HUMALOG U - 200 ?
Active ingredient : insulin lispro .
Inactive ingredient : glycerin , tromethamine , metacresol , zinc oxide ( zinc ion ) , trace amounts of phenol and water for injection .
Humalog ® and Humalog KwikPen ® are registered trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2015 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . humalog . com or call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 .
LOG200 - 0003 - PPI - 20191115 Instructions for Use HUMALOG KwikPen ® insulin lispro injection 200 units / mL , 3 mL single - patient - use pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read the Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG ® and each time you get another KwikPen ® .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMALOG KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMALOG KwikPen 200 units / mL ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 600 units of HUMALOG .
You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
Each turn ( click ) of the Dose Knob dials 1 unit of insulin .
You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 600 units in the Pen .
HUMALOG KwikPen is available in 2 strengths , 100 units / mL and 200 units / mL .
Inject HUMALOG 200 units / mL only with your Pen .
Do not transfer insulin from your Pen to a syringe .
Syringes will not measure 200 units / mL insulin correctly .
A severe overdose can result , causing very low blood sugar which may put your life in danger .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use the Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMALOG 200 units / mL KwikPen • Pen color : Dark grey • Dose Knob : Dark grey with burgundy ring on the end • Label : Burgundy label with “ 200 units per mL ( U - 200 ) ” in white stripe and a grey and burgundy checker board design .
Supplies needed to give your injection • HUMALOG KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Do not use your Pen past the expiration date printed on the Label or for more than 28 days after you first start using the Pen .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• - Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMALOG should look clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy , colored , or has particles or clumps in it .
Step 3 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 6 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 6 to 8 , no more than 8 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 6 to 8 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose This Pen has been made to deliver the dose that is shown in the Dose Window .
Dial your usual dose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than 1 injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming step .
Step 9 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting to much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Do not transfer this to a syringe .
Severe overdose can result .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 10 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
Step 12 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
• - A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window • - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 13 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 15 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if it has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMALOG Pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the sight and reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG KwikPen and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humalog . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMALOG ® and HUMALOG KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : November 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2015 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMALOG KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LOGKP200 - 0004 - IFU - 20191115 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HUMALOG ( INSULIN LISPRO ) INJECTION , SOLUTION HUMALOG KWIKPEN ( INSULIN LISPRO ) INJECTION , SOLUTION HUMALOG JUNIOR KWIKPEN ( INSULIN LISPRO ) INJECTION , SOLUTION HUMALOG TEMPO PEN ( INSULIN LISPRO ) INJECTION , SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
