For Dermatologic Use Only Not For Use In Eyes Rx Only DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % contains the active synthetic corticosteroid desoximetasone .
The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in an emollient cream consisting of aluminum monostearate , cetostearyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohols , magnesium stearate , mineral oil , paraffin wax , purified water , and white petrolatum .
The chemical name of desoximetasone is Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Desoximetasone has the molecular formula C22H29FO4 and a molecular weight of 376 . 47 .
The CAS Registry Number is 382 - 67 - 2 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics - The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with desoximetasone cream 0 . 25 % with tagged desoximetasone showed a total of 5 . 2 % ± 2 . 9 % excretion in urine ( 4 . 1 % ± 2 . 3 % ) and feces ( 1 . 1 % ± 0 . 6 % ) and no detectable level ( limit of sensitivity : 0 . 005 µg / mL ) in the blood when it was applied topically on the back followed by occlusion for 24 hours .
Seven days after application , no further radioactivity was detected in urine or feces .
The half - life of the material was 15 ± 2 hours ( for urine ) and 17 ± 2 hours ( for feces ) between the third and fifth trial day .
Studies with other similarly structured steroids have shown that predominant metabolite reaction occurs through conjugation to form the glucuronide and sulfate ester .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General - Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
• 5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Desoximetasone did not show potential for mutagenic activity in vitro in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Desoximetasone has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration in doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria In controlled clinical studies , the incidence of adverse reactions was low ( 0 . 8 % ) for desoximetasone cream 0 . 25 % , and included burning , folliculitis and folliculo - pustular lesions .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
HOW SUPPLIED Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % is available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 63187 - 646 - 15 ) 60 g tube ( NDC 63187 - 646 - 60 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 ∙ www . perrigo . com Rev 05 - 15 : 2C500 RC JX1 Relabeled by Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Carton Rx Only 63187 - 646 - 15 Desoximetasone Cream USP , 0 . 25 % For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not For Use In Eyes .
NET WT 15 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
