Drug Facts Active ingredient Terbinafine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • cures most jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • relieves itching , burning , cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or the eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • too much irritation occurs or gets worse .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older • use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube • wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying • for athlete ' s foot wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• between the toes only : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor .
• on the bottom or sides of the foot : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor .
• for jock itch and ringworm : apply once a day ( morning or night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor .
• wash hands after each use • children under 12 years : ask a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • do not use if seal on tube is broken or is not visible • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Dist .
by Target Corp .
Mpls . , MN 55403 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Tube Carton up & up full prescription strength athlete ' s foot cream terbinafine hydrochloride 1 % – antifungal helps cure most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm helps relieve itching , burning , cracking and scaling NET WT 1 OZ ( 30 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
