[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : OCULAR TOXICITY • TIVDAK caused changes in the corneal epithelium and conjunctiva resulting in changes in vision , including severe vision loss , and corneal ulceration .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Conduct an ophthalmic exam at baseline , prior to each dose , and as clinically indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Adhere to premedication and required eye care before , during , and after infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Withhold TIVDAK until improvement and resume , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue , based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : OCULAR TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• TIVDAK caused changes in the corneal epithelium and conjunctiva resulting in changes in vision , including severe vision loss , and corneal ulceration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Conduct an ophthalmic exam at baseline , prior to each dose , and as clinically indicated .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Adhere to premedication and required eye care before , during , and after infusion .
( 2 . 2 ) • Withhold TIVDAK until improvement and resume , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue , based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TIVDAK ® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials .
TIVDAK is a tissue factor - directed antibody and microtubule inhibitor conjugate indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy .
( 1 ) This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials .
( 14 . 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intravenous infusion only .
Do not administer TIVDAK as an intravenous push or bolus .
Do not mix with , or administer as an infusion with , other medicinal products .
( 2 . 4 ) • The recommended dose of TIVDAK is 2 mg / kg ( up to a maximum of 200 mg ) given as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of TIVDAK is 2 mg / kg ( up to a maximum of 200 mg for patients ≥ 100 kg ) administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
2 . 2 Premedication and Required Eye Care Adhere to the following recommendations to reduce the risk of ocular adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Ophthalmic exam : Conduct an ophthalmic exam including visual acuity and slit lamp exam at baseline , prior to each dose , and as clinically indicated .
• Topical corticosteroid eye drops : The initial prescription and all renewals of any corticosteroid medication should be made only after examination with a slit lamp .
Administer first drop in each eye prior to each infusion .
Instruct patients to continue to administer eye drops in each eye as prescribed for 72 hours after each infusion .
• Topical ocular vasoconstrictor drops : Administer in each eye immediately prior to each infusion .
• Cold packs : Use cooling eye pads during the infusion of TIVDAK .
• Topical lubricating eye drops : Instruct patients to administer for the duration of therapy and for 30 days after the last dose of TIVDAK .
• Contact lenses : Advise patients to avoid wearing contact lenses unless advised by their eye care provider for the entire duration of therapy .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended TIVDAK dose reduction schedule is provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Dosage Reduction Schedule * Permanently discontinue in patients who cannot tolerate 0 . 9 mg / kg TIVDAK Dose Level Starting dose 2 mg / kg First dose reduction 1 . 3 mg / kg Second dose reduction 0 . 9 mg / kg * The recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions are provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions * Refer patients to an eye care provider promptly for an assessment of new or worsening ocular symptoms .
Adverse Reaction Severity Occurrence TIVDAK Dose Modification Keratitis * [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Superficial punctate keratitis ( SPK ) Any Monitor .
Confluent superficial keratitis First occurrence Withhold dose until SPK or normal , then resume treatment at the next lower dose level .
Second occurrence Permanently discontinue .
Ulcerative keratitis or perforation Any Permanently discontinue .
Conjunctival ulceration * [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Any ulceration First occurrence Withhold dose until complete conjunctival re - epithelialization , then resume treatment at the next lower dose level .
Second occurrence Permanently discontinue .
Conjunctival or corneal scarring or symblepharon * [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Any scarring or symblepharon Any Permanently discontinue .
Conjunctivitis and other ocular adverse reactions * [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 1 Any Monitor .
Grade 2 First occurrence Withhold dose until Grade ≤ 1 , then resume treatment at the same dose .
Second occurrence Withhold dose until Grade ≤ 1 , then resume treatment at the next lower dose level .
If no resolution to Grade ≤ 1 , permanently discontinue .
Third occurrence Permanently discontinue .
Grade 3 or 4 Any Permanently discontinue .
Peripheral Neuropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 Any ( initial or worsening of pre - existing condition ) Withhold dose until Grade ≤ 1 , then resume treatment at the next lower dose level .
Grade 3 or 4 Any Permanently discontinue .
Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Any grade pulmonary or CNS Any Permanently discontinue .
Grade 2 in any other location Any Withhold until resolved , then resume treatment at the same dose .
Grade 3 in any other location First occurrence Withhold dose until resolved , then resume treatment at the same dose .
Second occurrence Permanently discontinue .
Grade 4 in any other location Any Permanently discontinue .
Pneumonitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 2 Any Withhold dose until Grade ≤ 1 for persistent or recurrent pneumonitis , consider resuming treatment at next lower dose level .
Grade 3 or 4 Any Permanently discontinue .
2 . 4 Instructions for Preparation and Administration • Administer TIVDAK as an intravenous infusion only .
• TIVDAK is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures1 .
• DO NOT mix TIVDAK as an intravenous push or bolus .
• DO NOT mix TIVDAK with , or administer as an infusion with , other medicinal products .
Use appropriate aseptic technique for reconstitution and preparation of dosing solutions .
Prior to administration , the TIVDAK vial is reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
The reconstituted solution is subsequently diluted in an intravenous infusion bag containing one of the following : 5 % Dextrose Injection USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP .
Reconstitution in Single - dose Vial • Calculate the recommended dose based on the patient ’ s weight to determine the number of vials needed .
• Reconstitute each 40 mg vial with 4 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , resulting in 10 mg / mL TIVDAK .
• Slowly swirl each vial until the contents are completely dissolved .
Allow the reconstituted vial ( s ) to settle .
DO NOT SHAKE THE VIAL .
Do not expose to direct sunlight .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The reconstituted solution should be clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow and free of visible particles .
Discard any vial with visible particles or discoloration .
• Based upon the calculated dose amount , the reconstituted solution from the vial ( s ) should be added to the infusion bag immediately .
This product does not contain a preservative .
If not used immediately , reconstituted vials may be stored for up to 24 hours in refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) or at room temperature up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) for up to a maximum of 8 hours prior to dilution .
DO NOT FREEZE .
Do not expose to direct sunlight .
Discard unused vials with reconstituted solution beyond the recommended storage time .
Dilution in Infusion Bag • Withdraw the calculated dose amount of reconstituted solution from the vial ( s ) and transfer into an infusion bag .
• Dilute TIVDAK with one of the following : 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP .
The infusion bag size should allow enough diluent to achieve a final concentration of 0 . 7 mg / mL to 2 . 4 mg / mL TIVDAK .
• Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion .
DO NOT SHAKE THE BAG .
Do not expose to direct sunlight .
• Visually inspect the infusion bag for any particulate matter or discoloration prior to use .
The reconstituted solution should be clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow and free of visible particles .
Discard the infusion bag if particulate matter or discoloration is observed .
• Discard any unused portion left in the single - dose vials .
Administration • Confirm administration of steroid and vasoconstrictor eye drops [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Apply cold packs fully over the eyes following administration of the vasoconstrictor eye drops and leave on during the infusion .
Change cold packs as needed throughout infusion to ensure eye area remains cold [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Immediately administer the infusion over 30 minutes through an intravenous line containing a 0 . 2 µm in - line filter .
• If the infusion is not administered immediately , store the diluted TIVDAK solution in refrigeration as specified in Table 3 .
Discard if storage time exceeds these limits .
DO NOT FREEZE .
Once removed from refrigeration , complete administration of the diluted infusion solution of TIVDAK within 4 hours ( including infusion time ) .
Table 3 : Diluted TIVDAK Solution Refrigeration Storage ConditionsDiluent Used to Prepare Solution for Infusion Diluted TIVDAK Solution Storage Conditions ( Including Infusion Time ) 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Up to 18 hours at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP Up to 24 hours at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP Up to 12 hours at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For Injection : 40 mg of tisotumab vedotin - tftv as a white to off - white lyophilized cake or powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
For Injection : 40 mg as a lyophilized cake or powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Peripheral neuropathy : Monitor patients for new or worsening peripheral neuropathy .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue TIVDAK based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) • Hemorrhage : Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hemorrhage .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue TIVDAK based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 3 ) • Pneumonitis : Severe , life - threatening or fatal pneumonitis may occur .
Withhold TIVDAK for persistent or recurrent Grade 2 pneumonitis and consider dose reduction .
Permanently discontinue TIVDAK for Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 4 ) • Embryo - fetal toxicity : TIVDAK can cause fetal harm .
Advise of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Ocular adverse reactions occurred in 60 % of patients with cervical cancer treated with TIVDAK across clinical trials .
The most common ocular adverse reactions were conjunctival adverse reactions ( 40 % ) , dry eye ( 29 % ) , corneal adverse reactions ( 21 % ) , and blepharitis ( 8 % ) .
Grade 3 ocular adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 8 % of patients , including severe ulcerative keratitis in 3 . 2 % of patients .
One patient experienced ulcerative keratitis with perforation requiring corneal transplantation .
Cases of symblepharon were reported in patients with other tumor types treated with TIVDAK at the recommended dose .
The median time to onset of the first ocular adverse reaction was 1 . 2 months ( range , 0 – 6 . 5 ) .
Of the patients who experienced ocular events , 55 % had complete resolution and 30 % had partial improvement ( defined as a decrease in severity by one or more grades from the worst grade ) at last follow up .
Ocular adverse reactions led to discontinuation of TIVDAK in 6 % of patients with cervical cancer .
In innovaTV 204 , 4 % of patients experienced visual acuity changes to 20 / 50 or worse including 1 % of patients who experienced a visual acuity change to 20 / 200 .
Of the patients who experienced decreased visual acuity to 20 / 50 or worse , 75 % resolved , including the patient who experienced decreased visual acuity to 20 / 200 .
Refer patients to an eye care provider for an ophthalmic exam including visual acuity and slit lamp exam at baseline , prior to each dose , and as clinically indicated .
Adhere to premedication and required eye care to reduce the risk of ocular adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Promptly refer patients to an eye care provider for any new or worsening ocular signs and symptoms .
Withhold , reduce the dose , or permanently discontinue TIVDAK based on the severity of the adverse reaction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 42 % of patients with cervical cancer treated with TIVDAK across clinical trials ; 8 % of patients experienced Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy .
Peripheral neuropathy adverse reactions included peripheral neuropathy ( 20 % ) , peripheral sensory neuropathy ( 11 % ) , peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ( 5 % ) , motor neuropathy ( 3 % ) , muscular weakness ( 3 % ) , and demyelinating peripheral polyneuropathy ( 1 % ) .
One patient with another tumor type treated with TIVDAK at the recommended dose developed Guillain - Barre syndrome .
The median time to onset of peripheral neuropathy was 2 . 4 months ( range , 0 - 11 . 3 ) .
Of the patients who experienced peripheral neuropathy , 17 % had complete resolution and 17 % had partial improvement ( defined as a decrease in severity by one or more grades from the worst grade ) at last follow up .
Peripheral neuropathy led to discontinuation of TIVDAK in 8 % of patients with cervical cancer .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of neuropathy , such as paresthesia , tingling or a burning sensation , neuropathic pain , muscle weakness , or dysesthesia .
For patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy , withhold dose , then dose reduce , or permanently discontinue TIVDAK based on the severity of peripheral neuropathy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hemorrhage Hemorrhage occurred in 62 % of patients with cervical cancer treated with TIVDAK across clinical trials .
The most common all grade hemorrhage adverse reactions were epistaxis ( 44 % ) , hematuria ( 10 % ) , and vaginal hemorrhage ( 10 % ) .
Grade 3 hemorrhage occurred in 5 % of patients .
The median time to onset of hemorrhage was 0 . 3 months ( range , 0 - 6 . 5 ) .
Of the patients who experienced hemorrhage , 71 % had complete resolution and 11 % had partial resolution ( defined as a decrease in severity by one or more grades from the worst grade ) at last follow - up .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hemorrhage .
For patients experiencing pulmonary or CNS hemorrhage , permanently discontinue TIVDAK .
For grade ≥ 2 hemorrhage in any other location , withhold until bleeding has resolved , blood hemoglobin is stable , there is no bleeding diathesis that could increase the risk of continuing therapy , and there is no anatomical or pathologic condition that can increase the risk of hemorrhage recurrence .
After resolution , either resume treatment or permanently discontinue TIVDAK [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Pneumonitis Severe , life - threatening , or fatal pneumonitis can occur in patients treated with antibody drug conjugates containing vedotin including TIVDAK .
Among patients with cervical cancer treated with TIVDAK across clinical trials , 2 patients ( 1 . 3 % ) experienced pneumonitis , including 1 patient who had a fatal outcome .
Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of pneumonitis .
Symptoms may include hypoxia , cough , dyspnea or interstitial infiltrates on radiologic exams .
Infectious , neoplastic , and other causes for such symptoms should be excluded through appropriate investigations .
Withhold TIVDAK for patients who develop persistent or recurrent Grade 2 pneumonitis and consider dose reduction .
Permanently discontinue TIVDAK in all patients with Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on the mechanism of action and findings in animals , TIVDAK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
The small molecule component of TIVDAK , MMAE , administered to rats caused adverse developmental outcomes , including embryo - fetal mortality and structural abnormalities , at exposures below those occurring clinically at the recommended dose .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TIVDAK and for 2 months after the last dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TIVDAK and for 4 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Ocular Adverse Reactions [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Peripheral Neuropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pneumonitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common ( ≥ 25 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , were hemoglobin decreased , fatigue , lymphocytes decreased , nausea , peripheral neuropathy , alopecia , epistaxis , conjunctival adverse reactions , hemorrhage , leukocytes decreased , creatinine increased , dry eye , prothrombin international normalized ratio increased , activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged , diarrhea , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Seagen Inc . at 1 - 855 - 4 SEAGEN or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS section reflect exposure to TIVDAK in 158 patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer who received at least one dose of TIVDAK at 2 mg / kg intravenously every 3 weeks in innovaTV 204 ( NCT03438396 ) , innovaTV 201 ( NCT02001623 ) , innovaTV 202 ( NCT02552121 ) and innovaTV 203 ( NCT03245736 ) .
The data described in this section reflect exposure to TIVDAK from innovaTV 204 ( NCT0348396 ) , a single arm study in patients ( n = 101 ) with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy .
Patients received TIVDAK 2 . 0 mg / kg every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
The median duration of treatment was 4 . 2 months ( range : 0 . 7 - 16 ) .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 43 % of patients .
The most common ( ≥ 3 % ) serious adverse reactions were ileus ( 6 % ) , hemorrhage ( 5 % ) , pneumonia ( 4 % ) , peripheral neuropathy , sepsis , constipation , and pyrexia ( each 3 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 4 % of patients who received TIVDAK , including septic shock ( 1 % ) , pneumonitis ( 1 % ) , sudden death ( 1 % ) , and multisystem organ failure ( 1 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation occurred in 13 % of patients receiving TIVDAK ; the most common ( ≥ 3 % ) adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation were peripheral neuropathy ( 5 % ) and corneal adverse reactions ( 4 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to dose interruption occurred in 47 % of patients ; the most ( ≥ 3 % ) common adverse reactions leading to dose interruption were peripheral neuropathy ( 8 % ) , conjunctival adverse reactions ( 4 % ) , and hemorrhage ( 4 % ) .
Adverse reactions leading to dose reduction occurred in 23 % of patients ; the most common ( ≥ 3 % ) adverse reactions leading to dose reduction were conjunctival adverse reactions ( 9 % ) and corneal adverse reactions ( 8 % ) .
The most common ( ≥ 25 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , were hemoglobin decreased , fatigue , lymphocytes decreased , nausea , peripheral neuropathy , alopecia , epistaxis , conjunctival adverse reactions , hemorrhage , leukocytes decreased , creatinine increased , dry eye , prothrombin international normalized ratio increased , activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged , diarrhea , and rash .
Table 4 summarizes the all grade and Grade 3 - 4 adverse reactions from innovaTV 204 .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients Who Received TIVDAK in innovaTV 204 1 .
Fatigue includes fatigue and asthenia 2 .
Nausea includes nausea and retching 3 .
Diarrhea includes diarrhea , gastroenteritis , and colitis 4 .
Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , abdominal pain lower , abdominal distention and abdominal discomfort 5 .
Peripheral neuropathy includes neuropathy peripheral , peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy , polyneuropathy , peripheral sensory neuropathy , paresthesia , hypoesthesia , burning sensation , neuralgia , sensory loss , peripheral motor neuropathy , muscular weakness , gait disturbance , and hyperesthesia 6 .
Rash includes rash , rash maculo - papular , rash macular , dermatitis acneiform , dermatitis allergic , and erythema 7 .
Hemorrhage includes vaginal hemorrhage , hematuria , rectal hemorrhage , cystitis hemorrhagic , lower gastrointestinal hemorrhage , urinary bladder hemorrhage , hematochezia , anal hemorrhage , gingival bleeding , post procedural hemorrhage , radiation associated with hemorrhage , metrorrhagia , large intestinal hemorrhage , paranasal sinus hemorrhage , and hemoptysis 8 .
Conjunctival adverse reactions includes conjunctivitis , conjunctival abrasion , conjunctival erosion , conjunctival hyperemia , conjunctival scar , noninfective conjunctivitis , ocular hyperemia , and conjunctival hemorrhage 9 .
Dry eye includes dry eye and lacrimation increased 10 .
Corneal adverse reactions includes keratitis , punctate keratitis , ulcerative keratitis , corneal erosion , corneal scar , keratopathy , and corneal bleeding 11 .
Periorbital adverse reactions includes blepharitis , meibomianitis , eye pruritus , entropion , trichiasis , chalazion , and meibomian gland dysfunction 12 .
Myalgia includes myalgia , musculoskeletal discomfort , and musculoskeletal pain 13 .
Pain in extremity includes pain in extremity and limb discomfort 14 .
Urinary tract infection includes urinary tract infection , urinary tract infection bacterial , and cystitis Adverse Reaction TIVDAK N = 101 All Grades Grade 3 - 4 % % General Fatigue1 50 7 Pyrexia 16 1 Pruritis 13 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea2 41 0 Diarrhea3 25 2 Constipation 23 2 Abdominal Pain4 23 1 Vomiting 17 2 Nervous system disorders Peripheral Neuropathy5 39 7 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Alopecia 39 0 Rash6 25 0 Vascular disorders Epistaxis 39 0 Hemorrhage7 32 6 Eye disorders Conjunctival adverse reactions8 37 0 Dry eye9 29 0 Corneal adverse reactions 10 21 3 Periorbital adverse reactions11 16 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia12 21 0 Arthralgia 16 0 Pain in extremity13 13 1 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 16 1 Infections Urinary tract infection14 14 2 Investigations Weight decreased 12 0 Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients who received TIVDAK in innovaTV 204 included venous thrombosis ( 3 % ) , pulmonary embolism ( 3 % ) , and pneumonitis ( 2 % ) .
Table 5 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in innovaTV 204 .
Table 5 : Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( > = 10 % ) That Worsened from Baseline In Patients Who Received TIVDAK in innovaTV 2041 .
The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 96 to 101 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
Laboratory Abnormality TIVDAK1 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Hematology Hemoglobin decreased 52 7 Lymphocytes decreased 42 8 Leukocytes decreased 30 0 Neutrophils decreased 21 3 Chemistry Creatinine increased 29 4 . 1 Alanine aminotransferase increased 24 0 Lactate dehydrogenase increased 22 0 Urate increased 20 0 Glucose decreased 19 0 Aspartate aminotransferase increased 18 0 Sodium decreased 20 0 Alkaline phosphatase increased 17 0 Creatinine kinase increased 16 2 . 1 Magnesium decreased 17 2 . 1 Albumin decreased 16 0 Coagulation Prothrombin international normalized ratio increased 26 0 Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged 26 2 6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for an immune response to TIVDAK .
The detection of antibody formation against tisotumab vedotin - tftv is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to tisotumab vedotin - tftv in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In innovaTV 204 , a total of 93 patients were tested for immunogenicity to TIVDAK ; 5 patients ( 5 % ) developed treatment - emergent anti - tisotumab vedotin - tftv antibodies .
Neutralizing anti - tisotumab vedotin - tftv antibodies were detected in 2 patients in Study innovaTV 204 .
Across all studies , 8 cervical cancer patients ( 5 . 5 % ) out of 145 evaluable patients developed treatment - emergent anti - tisotumab vedotin - tftv antibodies .
Given the low number of patients who developed anti - tisotumab vedotin - tftv antibodies , no conclusions can be drawn concerning a potential effect of immunogenicity on PK , efficacy or safety .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Closely monitor for TIVDAK adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on TIVDAK Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors MMAE is a CYP3A4 substrate .
Concomitant use of TIVDAK with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase unconjugated MMAE exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may increase the risk of TIVDAK adverse reactions .
Closely monitor patients for adverse reactions of TIVDAK when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Moderate or severe hepatic impairment : Exposure to MMAE and adverse reactions are increased .
Avoid use .
( 8 . 6 ) • Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on the mechanism of action and findings in animals , TIVDAK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available human data on TIVDAK use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In an animal reproduction study , administration of the small molecule component of TIVDAK , MMAE , to pregnant rats during organogenesis caused embryo - fetal mortality and structural abnormalities at exposures below the clinical exposure at the recommended dose ( see Data ) .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No embryo - fetal development studies in animals have been performed with tisotumab vedotin - tftv .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats , administration of two intravenous doses of MMAE , the small molecule component of TIVDAK , on gestational days 6 and 13 caused embryo - fetal mortality and structural abnormalities , including protruding tongue , malrotated limbs , gastroschisis , and agnathia compared to controls at a dose of 0 . 2 mg / kg ( approximately 0 . 5 - fold the human area under the curve [ AUC ] at the recommended dose ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of tisotumab vedotin - tftv in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment with TIVDAK and for 3 weeks after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential TIVDAK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy testing Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating TIVDAK treatment .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TIVDAK and for 2 months after the last dose .
Males Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TIVDAK and for 4 months after the last dose .
Infertility Males Based on findings from animal studies , TIVDAK may impair male fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of TIVDAK in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 101 patients treated with TIVDAK in innovaTV 204 , 13 % were ≥ 65 years of age .
Grade ≥ 3 adverse reactions occurred in 69 % patients ≥ 65 years and in 59 % patients < 65 years .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 54 % patients ≥ 65 years and in 41 % patients < 65 years .
No patients aged ≥ 65 years treated with TIVDAK in innovaTV 204 experienced a tumor response .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Avoid use of TIVDAK in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 × ULN ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) , closely monitor patients for adverse reactions of TIVDAK , but no dosage adjustment in the starting dose of TIVDAK is recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Tisotumab vedotin - tftv is a Tissue Factor ( TF ) directed antibody drug conjugate ( ADC ) comprised of a human anti - TF IgG1 - kappa antibody conjugated to the microtubule - disrupting agent monomethyl auristatin E ( MMAE ) via a protease - cleavable vc ( valine - citrulline ) linker .
The monoclonal antibody is produced in a mammalian cell cline ( Chinese hamster ovary ) .
MMAE and the linker are produced by chemical synthesis .
Each monoclonal antibody molecule carries an average of 4 MMAE molecules .
Tisotumab vedotin - tftv has an approximate molecular weight of 153 kDa .
The chemical structure is as follows : Figure 1 .
Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] TIVDAK ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) for injection , is provided as a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized cake or powder in a single - dose vial for infusion after dilution .
Following reconstitution with 4 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow solution containing 10 mg / mL tisotumab vedotin - tftv is produced [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Each mL of reconstituted solution contains 10 mg of tisotumab vedotin - tftv , d - mannitol ( 30 mg ) , l - histidine ( 2 . 11 mg ) , l - histidine monohydrochloride ( 3 . 44 mg ) , and sucrose ( 30 mg ) , at pH 6 . 0 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tisotumab vedotin - tftv is a tissue factor ( TF ) - directed antibody drug conjugate ( ADC ) .
The antibody is a human IgG1 directed against cell surface TF .
TF is the primary initiator of the extrinsic blood coagulation cascade .
The small molecule , MMAE , is a microtubule - disrupting agent , attached to the antibody via a protease - cleavable linker .
Nonclinical data suggests that the anticancer activity of tisotumab vedotin - tftv is due to the binding of the ADC to TF expressing cancer cells , followed by internalization of the ADC - TF complex , and release of MMAE via proteolytic cleavage .
MMAE disrupts the microtubule network of actively dividing cells , leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death .
In vitro , tisotumab vedotin - tftv also mediates antibody - dependent cellular phagocytosis and antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Tisotumab vedotin - tftv exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response have not been fully characterized .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the recommended dose , tisotumab vedotin - tftv had no large mean effect on QTc prolongation ( > 20 msec ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Table 6 summarizes the exposure parameters of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE ( the cytotoxic component of tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) following administration of one 3 - week cycle of tisotumab vedotin - tftv 2 mg / kg to patients .
Tisotumab vedotin - tftv concentrations peaked near the end of the infusion , while unconjugated MMAE concentrations peaked approximately 2 to 3 days after tisotumab vedotin - tftv dosing .
Tisotumab vedotin - tftv Cmax increased proportionally , while AUC0 - last increased in a more than dose - proportional manner , after a single dose ranging from 0 . 3 – 2 . 2 mg / kg ( 0 . 15 to 1 . 1 times the approved recommended dose ) .
There was no accumulation of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE .
Steady - state concentrations of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE were reached after 1 treatment cycle .
Table 6 .
Exposure Parameters of Tisotumab Vedotin - tftv and Unconjugated MMAE Cmax = maximum concentration , AUC = area under the concentration - time curve from time 0 to 21 days ( 3 weeks ) Tisotumab Vedotin - tftv Mean ( ± SD ) Unconjugated MMAE Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax 40 . 8 ( 8 . 12 ) μg / mL 5 . 91 ( 4 . 2 ) ng / mL AUC 57 . 5 ( 13 . 4 ) day * μg / mL 50 ( 35 . 8 ) day * ng / mL Distribution The tisotumab vedotin - tftv steady state volume of distribution is 7 . 83 ( % CV : 19 . 1 ) L . Plasma protein binding of MMAE ranged from 68 % to 82 % , in vitro .
Elimination The median terminal half - life of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE is 4 . 04 ( range : 2 . 26 - 7 . 25 ) days and 2 . 56 ( range : 1 . 81 - 4 . 10 ) days , respectively .
The linear clearance of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE was 1 . 54 ( % CV : 28 . 8 ) L / day and 45 . 9 ( % CV : 61 . 1 ) L / day , respectively .
Elimination of MMAE appeared to be limited by its rate of release from tisotumab vedotin - tftv .
Metabolism Tisotumab vedotin - tftv is expected to undergo catabolism to small peptides , amino acids , unconjugated MMAE , and unconjugated MMAE - related catabolites .
Tisotumab vedotin - tftv releases unconjugated MMAE via proteolytic cleavage , and unconjugated MMAE is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 in vitro .
Excretion The excretion of tisotumab vedotin - tftv is not fully characterized .
Following a single - dose of another ADC that contains MMAE , 17 % of the total MMAE administered was recovered in feces and 6 % in urine over a 1 - week period , primarily as unchanged drug .
A similar excretion profile of MMAE is expected after tisotumab vedotin - tftv administration .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of tisotumab vedotin - tftv were observed based on age ( 21 to 81 years ) , sex , race ( white vs non - white ) or ethnicity ( Hispanic or Latino vs non - Hispanic or non - Latino ) .
No clinically significant differences in exposures of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE were observed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to < 90 mL / min using the Cockcroft - Gault equation ) compared to patients with normal renal function .
The effect of severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 to < 30 mL / min ) or end - stage renal disease with or without dialysis on pharmacokinetics of tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE is unknown .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Unconjugated MMAE exposures were 37 % higher , but there were no clinically significant differences in exposures of tisotumab vedotin - tftv in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( bilirubin of 1 to 1 . 5 X ULN and AST < ULN , or bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN ) compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( AST > 3 x ULN or total bilirubin > 1 . 5 x ULN ) or liver transplantation on the pharmacokinetics of tisotumab vedotin - tftv or unconjugated MMAE is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies No clinical studies evaluating the drug - drug interaction potential of tisotumab vedotin - tftv have been conducted .
To characterize the drug - drug interaction potential of unconjugated MMAE , clinical studies with another ADC that contains MMAE are described below , and similar effects on tisotumab vedotin - tftv and unconjugated MMAE exposures are expected with concomitant use of TIVDAK .
There were no clinically significant differences in midazolam ( sensitive CYP3A4 substrate ) pharmacokinetics when used concomitantly with another ADC that contains MMAE .
Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) used concomitantly with another ADC that contains MMAE increased unconjugated MMAE C max by 25 % and AUC by 34 % , with no change in ADC exposure .
Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Rifampin ( strong CYP3A4 inducer ) used concomitantly with another ADC that contains MMAE decreased unconjugated MMAE Cmax by 44 % and AUC by 46 % , with no change in ADC exposure .
In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : MMAE does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , or CYP2D6 .
MMAE did not induce any major CYP450 enzymes in human hepatocytes .
Transporter Systems : MMAE is a substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , but not an inhibitor of P - gp .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed with tisotumab vedotin - tftv or MMAE .
MMAE was positive for genotoxicity in the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus study through an aneugenic mechanism .
MMAE was not mutagenic in the bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay or the L5178 TK + / - mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay .
Fertility studies with tisotumab vedotin - tftv or MMAE have not been conducted .
However , results of a repeat - dose toxicity study in monkeys indicate the potential for tisotumab vedotin - tftv to impair male reproductive function and fertility .
In a repeat - dose toxicology study conducted in monkeys for 13 weeks , doses ≥ 1 mg / kg tisotumab vedotin - tftv ( ≥ 0 . 6 times the human exposure [ AUC ] at the recommended dose ) resulted in decreased testicular size and seminiferous tubule atrophy , reduction or absence in sperm count , and decreased sperm motility .
Findings of sperm absence and decreased motility did not reverse by the end of the recovery period at doses ≥ 3 mg / kg ( ≥ 1 . 7 times the human exposure [ AUC ] at the recommended dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Recurrent or Metastatic Cervical Cancer The efficacy of TIVDAK was evaluated in innovaTV 204 ( NCT03438396 ) , an open - label , multicenter , single - arm trial that treated 101 patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer who had received no more than two prior systemic regimens in the recurrent or metastatic setting , including at least one prior platinum - based chemotherapy regimen .
Patients were excluded if they had active ocular surface disease , any prior episode of cicatricial conjunctivitis or Stevens Johnson syndrome , Grade ≥ 2 peripheral neuropathy or known coagulation defects leading to an increased risk of bleeding .
Patients received TIVDAK 2 mg / kg intravenously every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Tumor response assessments were performed every 6 weeks for the first 30 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter .
The median age was 50 years ( range : 31 to 78 ) ; 95 % were White , 2 % were Asian , and 1 % were Black .
Six percent of patients were Hispanic or Latino .
Sixty - eight percent of patients had squamous cell carcinoma , 27 % had adenocarcinoma , and 5 % had adenosquamous histology .
ECOG performance status was 0 ( 58 % ) or 1 ( 42 % ) .
Seventy percent of patients had received 1 prior line of systemic therapy , and 30 % had 2 prior lines of systemic therapy .
Sixty - nine percent of patients previously received bevacizumab as part of their prior systemic therapy .
Sixty - three percent received bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy ( paclitaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin , or paclitaxel and topotecan ) as first - line therapy .
The major efficacy outcome measures were confirmed objective response rate ( ORR ) as assessed by an independent review committee ( IRC ) using RECIST v1 . 1 criteria and duration of response ( DOR ) .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Efficacy Results in innovaTV 204 by IRC 1 Based on patients ( n = 24 ) with a response by IRC CI : confidence interval NR : not reached Endpoint N = 101 Confirmed ORR ( 95 % CI ) 24 % ( 15 . 9 , 33 . 3 ) Complete response rate 7 % Partial response rate 17 % Duration of Response Median Duration of Response , months1 ( 95 % CI ) 8 . 3 ( 4 . 2 , NR ) 15 REFERENCES • OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index / html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied TIVDAK ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) is supplied as a white to off - white lyophilized cake or powder in a 40 mg single - dose vial for reconstitution .
TIVDAK vials are available in the following packages : • Carton of one 40 mg single - dose vial [ NDC 51144 - 003 - 01 ] Storage Store TIVDAK vials refrigerated at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
Special Handling TIVDAK is a hazardous drug .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Ocular Adverse Reactions • Inform patients about the eye exam they will receive before treatment and prior to each dose .
• Inform patients that ocular adverse reactions may occur during treatment with TIVDAK and to contact their healthcare provider if they experience new or worsening ocular signs and symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to bring their eye drops to each infusion and advise on how to administer the eye drops throughout treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients to avoid wearing contact lenses during treatment unless directed by an eye care provider [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Peripheral Neuropathy • Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider any numbness and tingling of the hands or feet or muscle weakness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hemorrhage • Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider to seek immediate medical attention for signs or symptoms of unusual severe bleeding or hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pneumonitis • Advise patients to immediately report new or worsening respiratory symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise patients to inform their healthcare providers of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 2 months after the last dose .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with TIVDAK and for 3 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Seagen Inc .
Bothell , WA 98021 1 - 855 - 4 SEAGEN Marketed by : Seagen Inc .
Bothell , WA 98021 and Genmab US , Inc .
Plainsboro , NJ 08536 U . S . License 2257 TIVDAK ® is a trademark owned by Seagen Inc . © 2021 Seagen Inc . and Genmab US , Inc .
USPI - 761208 - v02 SPL MEDGUIDE SECTION This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : January 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE TIVDAK ( TIV - dack ) ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) for injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about TIVDAK ?
TIVDAK can cause serious side effects , including : • Eye problems .
Eye problems are common with TIVDAK , and can also be serious .
TIVDAK can cause changes to the surface of your eye that can lead to dry eyes , eye redness , eye irritation , corneal ulcers , blurred vision , and severe vision loss .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop new or worsening vision changes or eye problems during treatment with TIVDAK .
• Your healthcare provider will send you to an eye specialist to check your eyes before you start treatment with TIVDAK , before each dose of TIVDAK , and as needed for any new or worsening signs and symptoms of eye problems .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe 3 different types of eye drops before you start treatment with TIVDAK .
Bring the eye drops with you to each infusion and use them as directed by your healthcare provider to reduce your risk of eye problems : • You should use steroid eye drops before each infusion and as prescribed for 72 hours after each infusion .
• You should use vasoconstrictor eye drops right before each infusion .
• You should use lubricating eye drops throughout treatment and for 30 days after your last dose of TIVDAK .
• Do not wear contact lenses throughout your treatment with TIVDAK unless you are told to use them by your eye specialist .
See “ What are the possible side effects of TIVDAK ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is TIVDAK ?
TIVDAK is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with cervical cancer : • that has returned or has spread to other parts of the body , and • who have received chemotherapy that did not work or is no longer working .
It is not known if TIVDAK is safe and effective in children .
Before receiving TIVDAK , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a history of vision or eye problems • have numbness or tingling in your hands or feet • have bleeding problems • have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
TIVDAK can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during treatment with TIVDAK .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider should do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with TIVDAK .
• You should use an effective birth control during treatment and for 2 months after your last dose of TIVDAK .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant : • You should use an effective birth control during treatment and for 4 months after your last dose of TIVDAK .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TIVDAK passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 3 weeks after your last dose of TIVDAK .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking TIVDAK with certain other medicines may cause side effects .
How will I receive TIVDAK ?
• TIVDAK will be given to you by intravenous ( IV ) infusion into your vein over 30 minutes .
• TIVDAK is usually given every 3 weeks .
• Your healthcare provider will decide how many infusions you need • Your healthcare provider will put cold packs on your eyes during each infusion .
Your healthcare provider may decrease your dose , temporarily stop , or completely stop treatment with TIVDAK if you have side effects .
What are the possible side effects of TIVDAK ?
TIVDAK can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about TIVDAK ? ”
• Peripheral neuropathy .
Nerve problems called peripheral neuropathy are common with TIVDAK , and can also be serious .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get numbness or tingling in your hands or feet or muscle weakness .
• Bleeding ( hemorrhage ) .
Bleeding problems are common with TIVDAK , and can also be serious .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get signs or symptoms of bleeding during treatment with TIVDAK , including • blood in your stools or black stools ( looks like tar ) • blood in your urine • cough up or vomit blood • unusual vaginal bleeding • any unusual or heavy bleeding • Lung problems .
TIVDAK may cause severe or life - threatening inflammation of the lungs that can lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get new or worsening symptoms , including trouble breathing , shortness of breath , or cough The most common side effects of TIVDAK include : • decreased red blood cell and white blood cell counts • tiredness • nausea • hair loss ( alopecia ) • nosebleed • changes in kidney function blood tests • dry eye • abnormal blood clotting test results • diarrhea • rash TIVDAK may cause fertility problems in males , which may affect your ability to father children .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
These are not all the possible side effects of TIVDAK .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of TIVDAK .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
If you would like more information about TIVDAK , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TIVDAK that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in TIVDAK ?
Active ingredient : tisotumab vedotin - tftv Inactive ingredients : d - mannitol , l - histidine , l - histidine monohydrochloride , and sucrose .
Manufactured by : Seagen Inc . , Bothell , WA 98021 , 1 - 855 - 4 SEAGEN Marketed by : Seagen Inc . , Bothell , WA 98021 and Genmab US , Inc . , Plainsboro , NJ 08536 U . S . License 2257 TIVDAK ® is a trademark owned by Seagen Inc . © 2021 Seagen Inc . and Genmab US , Inc .
MG - 761208 - v02 For more information , go to www . tivdak . com or call 1 - 855 - 4 SEAGEN PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 51144 - 003 - 01 tivdak ® ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) for injection 40 mg / vial CAUTION : Hazardous Agent For intravenous infusion only Must reconstitute and dilute before use One single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Provide the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient Seagen ® Genmab Dosage : See Prescribing Information .
Storage : Store vial refrigerated at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) in original carton to protect from light .
DO NOT FREEZE .
DO NOT SHAKE .
No U . S . Standard of Potency U . S . License 2257 TIVDAK and the TIVDAK logo are US registered trademarks owned by Seagen Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Seagen is US registered trademark of Seagen Inc .
© 2021 Seagen Inc . and Genmab .
All rights reserved .
Printed in USA PRODUCT OF SWITZERLAND Each vial contains 40 mg of tisotumab vedotin - tftv .
No Preservative After reconstitution with 4 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the concentration of TIVDAK ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) is 10 mg / mL Each mL of reconstituted solution contains 10 mg of tisotumab vedotin - tftv , D - mannitol ( 30 mg ) , L - histidine ( 2 . 11 mg ) , L - histidine monojhydrochloride ( 3 . 44 mg ) , and sucrose ( 30 mg ) Mfg by : Seagen Inc .
Bothell , WA 98021 For more information : 1 - 855 - 4 SEAGEN GTIN 00351144003014 1401 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 51144 - 003 - 01 tivdak ® ( tisotumab vedotin - tftv ) for injection 40 mg / vial For intravenous infusion only Must reconstitute and dilute before use Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
CAUTION : Hazardous Agent Store at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) Protect from light .
DO NOT FREEZE .
DO NOT SHAKE .
Dosage : See Prescribing Information Provide the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Mfg by : Seagen Inc .
U . S . License 2257 PRODUCT OF SWITZERLAND Seagen ® Genmab 1400 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
