FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
Rx only NOT FOR USE IN EYES .
DESCRIPTION : Prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % contains the non - halogenated prednisolone derivative prednicarbate .
The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Each gram of prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % contains 1 . 0 mg of prednicarbate USP in a base consisting of white petrolatum , glyceryl monooleate , octyldodecanol NF , and propylene glycol .
Prednicarbate has the empirical formula C27H36O8 and a molecular weight of 488 . 58 .
The CAS Registry Number is 73771 - 04 - 7 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Like other topical corticosteroids , prednicarbate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin while inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparations .
PRECAUTIONS : • General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients receiving a large dose of a higher potency topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA - axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % did not produce significant HPA - axis suppression when used at a dose of 60 grams per day for a week in patients with extensive psoriasis or atopic dermatitis .
However , if HPA - axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA - axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface area to body mass ratios ( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive , unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 .
This medication should not be used on the face , underarms , or groin areas .
• 6 .
Contact between Prednicarbate Ointment 0 . 1 % and latex containing products ( eg .
condoms , diaphragm etc . ) should be avoided since paraffin in contact with latex can cause damage and reduce the effectiveness of any latex containing products .
If latex products come into contact with Prednicarbate Ointment 0 . 1 % , patients should be advised to discard the latex products .
Patients should be advised that this medication is to be used externally only , not intravaginally .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test , A . M . plasma cortisol test , Urinary free cortisol test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a study of the effect of prednicarbate on fertility , pregnancy and postnatal development in rats , no effect was noted on the fertility or pregnancy of the parent animals or postnatal development of the offspring after administration of up to 0 . 80 mg / kg of prednicarbate subcutaneously .
Prednicarbate has been evaluated in the Salmonella reversion test ( Ames test ) over a wide range of concentrations in the presence and absence of an S - 9 liver microsomal fraction and did not demonstrate mutagenic activity .
Similarly , prednicarbate did not produce any significant changes in the numbers of micronuclei seen in erythrocytes when mice were given doses ranging from 1 to 160 mg / kg of the drug .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Prednicarbate has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in Wistar rats and Himalayan rabbits when given subcutaneously during gestation at doses 1900 times and 45 times , respectively , the recommended topical human dose , assuming a percutaneous absorption of approximately 3 % .
In the rats , slightly retarded fetal development and an incidence of thickened and wavy ribs which were higher than the spontaneous rates were noted .
In rabbits , there was noted increased liver weights and slight increase in the fetal intrauterine death rate .
The fetuses delivered exhibited reduced placental weight , increased frequency of cleft palate , ossification disorders in the sternum , omphalocele , and anomalous posture of forelimbs .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects of prednicarbate .
Therefore , prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae , have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HPA - axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In controlled clinical studies , the incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % was approximately 1 . 5 % .
Reported reactions including burning , pruritus , drying , scaling , cracking and pain and irritant dermatitis .
The following additional local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a thin film of prednicarbate ointment 0 . 1 % to the affected skin areas twice daily .
Rub in gently .
HOW SUPPLIED : Prednicarbate Ointment 0 . 1 % is supplied in • 15 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0410 - 15 60 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0410 - 60 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See Controlled Room Temperature ] .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 46300513 A 12 / 2021 # 136 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CONTAINER • NDC 0168 - 0410 - 15 FOUGERA ® • PREDNICARBATE OINTMENT 0 . 1 % Rx only • FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR USE IN EYES .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CARTON • NDC 0168 - 0410 - 15 FOUGERA ® Rx Only PREDNICARBATE OINTMENT 0 . 1 % • FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR USE IN EYES .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
