Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies : - Sneezing - Runny nose - Nasal stuffiness - Post nasal drip - Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) - Promotes nasal and sinus drainage - Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes - Moisturizes dry nasal passages Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not reduced .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
See instructions inside box for proper water sources .
Do not use if nasal passages are completely blocked or if you have an ear infection or blocked ears .
When using this product : • Use by only one person • Wash with soap and water after each use • Top rack of dishwasher safe • Do not heat in microwave Keep out of reach of children Directions : Adults and children 4 years and over : use 1 / 2 - 1 packet per 4 fl .
oz ( 120 mL ) up to every 2 hours as needed Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete instructions and proper use Other information • Inspect saline packets for integrity • Do not use saline packets if open or torn • Protect saline packets from excessive heat and moisture • See saline packets or box for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients : none Questions ?
1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 * IMPORTANT NOTE Do not sinus wash with unfiltered tap water .
Use either distilled , or sterile , or filtered ( using a filter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron orsmaller ) or previously boiled water ( boil water 1 minute or 3 minutes if at elevations above 6 , 500 feet then allow to cool to bodytemperature ) .
Sinus Wash Compact Neti Pot Instructions Read through entire instruction sheet before using for the first time .
DO NOT SINUS WASH WITH UNFILTERED TAP WATER .
See important note * for proper water sources .
Warning : Do not rinse if nasal passages are completely blocked or if you have an ear infection or blocked ears .
Should I use an Isotonic or Hypertonic Solution ?
Any Sinus Wash Device can be used with the enclosed Saline packets to make either an Isotonic or Hypertonic solution .
Check with the guide below or consult with your physician for best use .
Isotonic Solution 1 / 2 Saline Packet per 4 fl oz .
( 120 mL ) Hypertonic Solution 1 Saline Packets per 4 fl oz .
( 120 mL ) An Isotonic solution creates a mild , less concentrated salt solution of 9 mg of Sodium Chloride per mL of water , which has a similar salt concentration of your body and may be more comfortable to use for some people initially than a more concentrated Hypertonic solution .
A Hypertonic solution creates a higher , more concentrated salt solution which is similar to the salt content of ocean water .
What is the Sinus Wash System ?
The Sinus Wash System is an all natural and medically proven method for relieving allergies , nasal congestion , discomfort caused by dry air , sinus infections , rhinitis of pregnancy and soothing irritated nasal passages .
It gently washes away mucus buildup from the nose and improves breathing .
Because it is gentle , the system can be used up to every 2 hours as needed .
Some people use it as routinely as they brush their teeth while others use it only on days when they need it .
ACP No . 99 - 40330 - 205 - 00 Instructions for Use of the Compact Neti Pot : Directions & Dosage : Read through entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry ingredients into the Compact Neti Pot .
First - time users should start with 1 / 2 packet of the saline dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 1 full packet .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
2 .
Fill the pot to the 4 oz .
line with proper water * .
This makes 1 / 2 cup ( 4 oz . )
of solution .
3 .
Stir thoroughly until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
4 .
Proper head position allows solution to flow through the nose by gravity .
• Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Holding the Neti Pot in your right hand , gently insert the spout into your right nostril so that it forms a comfortable seal .
• Rotate your head so that the right nostril is directly above the left .
The forehead should remain higher than the chin .
Raise the Neti Pot so that the solution enters the right nostril .
In a few moments , the solution will begin to drain out the left nostril into the sink .
Do not inhale or “ snort ” solution into the nose – breathe through your mouth .
5 .
When the Neti Pot is empty , exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
6 .
Repeat the procedure on the left nostril .
7 .
Thoroughly rinse the Neti Pot after each use with water that has been distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the pot open to air dry completely .
The Compact Neti Pot is top - rack dishwasher safe .
Hints for a more comfortable nasal wash : • Begin using the Sinus Wash System slowly – especially with children .
A full pot of solution on each side is not necessary to receive the full benefit .
• If the solution is too warm or too cold , the nasal wash will be uncomfortable .
• If stinging or irritation occurs , try using 1 / 2 packet of dry ingredients per pot .
Gradually work up to using the solution at full strength using 1 full packet per pot .
Do not use less than 1 / 2 packet .
• If you experience ear discomfort after use , try to blow your nose more gently after the wash .
If the problem persists , the openings of your Eustachian tubes may be particularly wide and use of the system should be discontinued .
• Breathe continuously through the mouth when using the Sinus Wash System to avoid solution draining from the back of the nose into the mouth .
• Some people experience irritation of the skin just inside the nostrils with repeated nasal washing .
Applying a thin layer of aloe to the inside of the nostrils before or after the nasal wash will be soothing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
