Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is a sterile semisynthetic , broad - spectrum , cephalosporin antibiotic for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 3 - carbamoyloxymethyl - 7 - [ Z - 2 - methoxyimino - 2 - ( fur - 2 - yl ) acetamido ] ceph - 3 - em - 4 - carboxylate , and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C16H15N4NaO8S , representing a molecular weight of 446 . 4 .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP contains approximately 54 . 2 mg ( 2 . 4 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefuroxime activity .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP in sterile crystalline form is supplied in vials or infusion bottles and is equivalent to 750 mg or 1 . 5 g of cefuroxime as cefuroxime sodium .
Solutions of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP range in color from light yellow to amber , depending on the concentration and diluent used .
The pH of freshly constituted solutions usually ranges from 6 to 8 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intramuscular ( IM ) injection of a 750 mg dose of cefuroxime to normal volunteers , the mean peak serum concentration was 27 mcg / mL .
The peak occurred at approximately 45 minutes ( range , 15 to 60 minutes ) .
Following IV doses of 750 mg and 1 . 5 g , serum concentrations were approximately 50 and 100 mcg / mL , respectively , at 15 minutes .
Therapeutic serum concentrations of approximately 2 mcg / mL or more were maintained for 5 . 3 hours and 8 hours or more , respectively .
There was no evidence of accumulation of cefuroxime in the serum following IV administration of 1 . 5 g doses every 8 hours to normal volunteers .
The serum half - life after either IM or IV injections is approximately 80 minutes .
Approximately 89 % of a dose of cefuroxime is excreted by the kidneys over an 8 - hour period , resulting in high urinary concentrations .
Following the IM administration of a 750 mg single dose , urinary concentrations averaged 1 , 300 mcg / mL during the first 8 hours .
Intravenous doses of 750 mg and 1 . 5 g produced urinary levels averaging 1 , 150 and 2 , 500 mcg / mL , respectively , during the first 8 - hour period .
The concomitant oral administration of probenecid with cefuroxime slows tubular secretion , decreases renal clearance by approximately 40 % , increases the peak serum level by approximately 30 % , and increases the serum half - life by approximately 30 % .
Cefuroxime is detectable in therapeutic concentrations in pleural fluid , joint fluid , bile , sputum , bone , and aqueous humor .
Cefuroxime is detectable in therapeutic concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) of adults and pediatric patients with meningitis .
The following table shows the concentrations of cefuroxime achieved in cerebrospinal fluid during multiple dosing of patients with meningitis .
Table 1 : Concentrations of Cefuroxime Achieved in Cerebrospinal FluidDuring Multiple Dosing of Patients with MeningitisPatients Dose Number of Patients Mean ( Range ) CSF Cefuroxime Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) Achieved Within 8 Hours Post Dose Pediatric patients ( 4 weeks to 6 . 5 years ) 200 mg / kg / day , divided q 6 hours 5 6 . 6 ( 0 . 9 - 17 . 3 ) Pediatric patients ( 7 months to 9 years ) 200 to 230 mg / kg / day , divided q 8 hours 6 8 . 3 ( < 2 - 22 . 5 ) Adults 1 . 5 grams q 8 hours 2 5 . 2 ( 2 . 7 - 8 . 9 ) Adults 1 . 5 grams q 6 hours 10 6 ( 1 . 5 - 13 . 5 ) Cefuroxime is approximately 50 % bound to serum protein .
Microbiology Cefuroxime has in vitro activity against a wide range of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms , and it is highly stable in the presence of beta - lactamases of certain gram - negative bacteria .
The bactericidal action of cefuroxime results from inhibition of cell - wall synthesis .
Cefuroxime is usually active against the following organisms in vitro .
Aerobes , Gram - positive : Staphylococcusaureus ; Staphylococcus epidermidis ; Streptococcus pneumoniae ; and Streptococcus pyogenes ( and other streptococci ) .
NOTE : Most strains of enterococci , e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis ( formerly Streptococcus faecalis ) , are resistant to cefuroxime .
Methicillin - resistant staphylococci and Listeria monocytogenes are resistant to cefuroxime .
Aerobes , Gram - negative : Citrobacter spp . , Enterobacter spp . , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , Haemophilusparainfluenzae , Klebsiella spp .
( including Klebsiella pneumoniae ) , Moraxella ( Branhamella ) catarrhalis ( including ampicillin - and cephalothin - resistant strains ) , Morganella morganii ( formerly Proteus morganii ) , Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Neisseria meningitidis , Proteusmirabilis , Providencia rettgeri ( formerly Proteus rettgeri ) , Salmonella spp . , and Shigella spp .
NOTE : Some strains of Morganella morganii , Enterobacter cloacae , and Citrobacter spp .
have been shown by in vitro tests to be resistant to cefuroxime and other cephalosporins .
Pseudomonas and Campylobacter spp . , Legionella spp . , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus , and most strains of Serratia spp .
and Proteus vulgaris are resistant to most first - and second - generation cephalosporins .
Anaerobes : Gram - positive and gram - negative cocci ( including Peptococcus and Peptostreptococcus spp . )
, gram - positive bacilli ( including Clostridium spp . )
, and gram - negative bacilli ( including Bacteroides and Fusobacterium spp . )
.
NOTE : Clostridium difficile and most strains of Bacteroides fragilis are resistant to cefuroxime .
Susceptibility Tests Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters give an estimate of antibiotic susceptibility .
One such standard procedure1 that has been recommended for use with disks to test susceptibility of organisms to cefuroxime uses the 30 mcg cefuroxime disk .
Interpretation involves the correlation of the diameters obtained in the disk test with the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for cefuroxime .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited by generally achievable blood levels .
A report of “ Moderately Susceptible ” suggests that the organism would be susceptible if high dosage is used or if the infection is confined to tissues and fluids in which high antibiotic levels are attained .
A report of “ Intermediate ” suggests an equivocable or indeterminate result .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that achievable concentrations of the antibiotic are unlikely to be inhibitory and other therapy should be selected .
Reports from the laboratory giving results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test for organisms other than Haemophilus spp .
and Neisseria gonorrhoeae with a 30 mcg cefuroxime disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 ( S ) Susceptible 15 - 17 ( MS ) Moderately Susceptible ≤ 14 ( R ) Resistant Results for Haemophilus spp .
should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 24 ( S ) Susceptible 21 - 23 ( I ) Intermediate ≤ 20 ( R ) Resistant Results for Neisseria gonorrhoeae should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 31 ( S ) Susceptible 26 - 30 ( MS ) Moderately Susceptible ≤ 25 ( R ) Resistant Organisms should be tested with the cefuroxime disk since cefuroxime has been shown by in vitro tests to be active against certain strains found resistant when other beta - lactam disks are used .
The cefuroxime disk should not be used for testing susceptibility to other cephalosporins .
Standardized procedures require the use of laboratory control organisms .
The 30 mcg cefuroxime disk should give the following zone diameters .
1 .
Testing for organisms other than Haemophilus spp .
and Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Organism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 27 - 35 Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 20 - 26 2 .
Testing for Haemophilus spp . : Organism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49766 28 - 36 3 .
Testing for Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Organism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 33 - 41 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 29 - 33 Dilution Techniques : Use a standardized dilution method1 ( broth , agar , microdilution ) or equivalent with cefuroxime powder .
The MIC values obtained for bacterial isolates other than Haemophilus spp .
and Neisseria gonorrhoeae should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 ( S ) Susceptible 16 ( MS ) Moderately Susceptible ≥ 32 ( R ) Resistant MIC values obtained for Haemophilus spp .
should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 4 ( S ) Susceptible 8 ( I ) Intermediate ≥ 16 ( R ) Resistant MIC values obtained for Neisseria gonorrhoeae should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 1 ( S ) Susceptible 2 ( MS ) Moderately Susceptible ≥ 4 ( R ) Resistant As with standard diffusion techniques , dilution methods require the use of laboratory control organisms .
Standard cefuroxime powder should provide the following MIC values .
1 .
For organisms other than Haemophilus spp .
and Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Organism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 5 - 2 Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 2 - 8 2 .
For Haemophilus spp : Organism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49766 0 . 25 - 1 3 .
For Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Organism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 0 . 25 - 1 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 25 - 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases : • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections , including pneumonia , caused by Streptococcuspneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , Klebsiella spp . , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Escherichia coli .
• Urinary Tract Infections caused by Escherichia coli and Klebsiella spp .
• Skin and Skin Structure Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Streptococcus pyogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella spp . , and Enterobacter spp .
• Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Streptococcuspneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , and Klebsiella spp .
• Meningitis caused by Streptococcuspneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , Neisseria meningitidis , and Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) .
• Gonorrhea : Uncomplicated and disseminated gonococcal infections due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) in both males and females .
• Bone and Joint Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) .
Clinical microbiological studies in skin and skin - structure infections frequently reveal the growth of susceptible strains of both aerobic and anaerobic organisms .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP has been used successfully in these mixed infections in which several organisms have been isolated .
In certain cases of confirmed or suspected gram - positive or gram - negative sepsis or in patients with other serious infections in which the causative organism has not been identified , Cefuroxime for Injection may be used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The recommended doses of both antibiotics may be given depending on the severity of the infection and the patient ’ s condition .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Prevention : The preoperative prophylactic administration of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may prevent the growth of susceptible disease - causing bacteria and thereby may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy ) that are classified as clean - contaminated or potentially contaminated procedures .
Effective prophylactic use of antibiotics in surgery depends on the time of administration .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should usually be given one - half to 1 hour before the operation to allow sufficient time to achieve effective antibiotic concentrations in the wound tissues during the procedure .
The dose should be repeated intraoperatively if the surgical procedure is lengthy .
Prophylactic administration is usually not required after the surgical procedure ends and should be stopped within 24 hours .
In the majority of surgical procedures , continuing prophylactic administration of any antibiotic does not reduce the incidence of subsequent infections but will increase the possibility of adverse reactions and the development of bacterial resistance .
The perioperative use of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP has also been effective during open heart surgery for surgical patients in whom infections at the operative site would present a serious risk .
For these patients it is recommended that therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP be continued for at least 48 hours after the surgical procedure ends .
If an infection is present , specimens for culture should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism , and appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be instituted .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFUROXIME FOR INJECTION , USP IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN CAUTIOUSLY TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFUROXIME FOR INJECTION , USP OCCURS , DISCONTINUE THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Cefuroxime for Injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
When the colitis is not relieved by drug discontinuation or when it is severe , oral vancomycin is the treatment of choice for antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile .
Other causes of colitis should also be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General Although Cefuroxime for Injection , USP rarely produces alterations in kidney function , evaluation of renal status during therapy is recommended , especially in seriously ill patients receiving the maximum doses .
Cephalosporins should be given with caution to patients receiving concurrent treatment with potent diuretics as these regimens are suspected of adversely affecting renal function .
The total daily dose of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be reduced in patients with transient or persistent renal insufficiency ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , because high and prolonged serum antibiotic concentrations can occur in such individuals from usual doses .
As with other antibiotics , prolonged use of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Broad - spectrum antibiotics should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of aminoglycoside antibiotics and cephalosporins .
As with other therapeutic regimens used in the treatment of meningitis , mild - to - moderate hearing loss has been reported in a few pediatric patients treated with cefuroxime .
Persistence of positive CSF ( cerebrospinal fluid ) cultures at 18 to 36 hours has also been noted with cefuroxime injection , as well as with other antibiotic therapies ; however , the clinical relevance of this is unknown .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment , or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous Vitamin K administered as indicated .
Prescribing Cefuroxime for Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefuroxime for Injection , USP or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions In common with other antibiotics , cefuroxime may affect the gut flora , leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduce efficacy of combined estrogen / progesterone oral contraceptives .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions A false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests ( Benedict ’ s or Fehling ’ s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets ) but not with enzyme - based tests for glycosuria .
As a false - negative result may occur in the ferricyanide test , it is recommended that either the glucose oxidase or hexokinase method be used to determine blood plasma glucose levels in patients receiving Cefuroxime for Injection , USP .
Cefuroxime does not interfere with the assay of serum and urine creatinine by the alkaline picrate method .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Although lifetime studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no mutagenic activity was found for cefuroxime in the mouse lymphoma assay and a battery of bacterial mutation tests .
Positive results were obtained in an in vitro chromosome aberration assay , however , negative results were found in an in vivo micronucleus test at doses up to 10 g / kg .
Reproduction studies in mice at doses up to 3 , 200 mg / kg per day ( 3 . 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) have revealed no impairment of fertility .
Reproductive studies revealed no impairment of fertility in animals .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in mice at doses up to 6 , 400 mg / kg per day ( 6 . 3 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) and rabbits at doses up to 400 mg / kg per day ( 2 . 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefuroxime .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Since cefuroxime is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established .
Accumulation of other members of the cephalosporin class in newborn infants ( with resulting prolongation of drug half - life ) has been reported .
Geriatric Use Of the 1 , 914 subjects who received cefuroxime in 24 clinical studies of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP , 901 ( 47 % ) were 65 and over while 421 ( 22 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater susceptibility of some older individuals to drug effects cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse effects have been local reactions following IV administration .
Other adverse reactions have been encountered only rarely .
Local Reactions : Thrombophlebitis has occurred with IV administration in 1 in 60 patients .
Gastrointestinal : Gastrointestinal symptoms occurred in 1 in 150 patients and included diarrhea ( 1 in 220 patients ) and nausea ( 1 in 440 patients ) .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in fewer than 1 % of the patients treated with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and include rash ( 1 in 125 ) .
Pruritus , urticaria , and positive Coombs ’ test each occurred in fewer than 1 in 250 patients , and , as with other cephalosporins , rare cases of anaphylaxis , drug fever , erythema multiforme , interstitial nephritis , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have occurred .
Blood : A decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit has been observed in 1 in 10 patients and transient eosinophilia in 1 in 14 patients .
Less common reactions seen were transient neutropenia ( fewer than 1 in 100 patients ) and leukopenia ( 1 in 750 patients ) .
A similar pattern and incidence were seen with other cephalosporins used in controlled studies .
As with other cephalosporins , there have been rare reports of thrombocytopenia .
Hepatic : Transient rise in SGOT and SGPT ( 1 in 25 patients ) , alkaline phosphatase ( 1 in 50 patients ) , LDH ( 1 in 75 patients ) , and bilirubin ( 1 in 500 patients ) levels has been noted .
Kidney : Elevations in serum creatinine and / or blood urea nitrogen and a decreased creatinine clearance have been observed , but their relationship to cefuroxime is unknown .
Postmarketing Experience with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP Products In addition to the adverse events reported during clinical trials , the following events have been observed during clinical practice in patients treated with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and were reported spontaneously .
Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation .
Immune System Disorders : Cutaneous vasculitis .
Neurologic : Seizure .
Non - site Specific : Angioedema .
Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefuroxime , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions : Vomiting , abdominal pain , colitis , vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis , toxic nephropathy , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage .
Several cephalosporins , including Cefuroxime for Injection , USP , have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy should occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
Altered Laboratory Tests : Prolonged prothrombin time , pancytopenia , agranulocytosis .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact WG Critical Care , LLC at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4708 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of cephalosporins can cause cerebral irritation leading to convulsions .
Serum levels of cefuroxime can be reduced by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage Adults : The usual adult dosage range for Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is 750 mg to 1 . 5 grams every 8 hours , usually for 5 to 10 days .
In uncomplicated urinary tract infections , skin and skin structure infections , disseminated gonococcal infections , and uncomplicated pneumonia , a 750 mg dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In severe or complicated infections , a 1 . 5 gram dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In bone and joint infections , a 1 . 5 gram dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In clinical trials , surgical intervention was performed when indicated as an adjunct to therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP .
A course of oral antibiotics was administered when appropriate following the completion of parenteral administration of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP .
In life - threatening infections or infections due to less susceptible organisms , 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours may be required .
In bacterial meningitis , the dosage should not exceed 3 grams every 8 hours .
The recommended dosage for uncomplicated gonococcal infection is 1 . 5 grams given intramuscularly as a single dose at 2 different sites together with 1 gram of oral probenecid .
For preventive use for clean - contaminated or potentially contaminated surgical procedures , a 1 . 5 gram dose administered intravenously just before surgery ( approximately one - half to 1 hour before the initial incision ) is recommended .
Thereafter , give 750 mg intravenously or intramuscularly every 8 hours when the procedure is prolonged .
For preventive use during open heart surgery , a 1 . 5 gram dose administered intravenously at the induction of anesthesia and every 12 hours thereafter for a total of 6 grams is recommended .
Impaired Renal Function : A reduced dosage must be employed when renal function is impaired .
Dosage should be determined by the degree of renal impairment and the susceptibility of the causative organism ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Dosage of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP in Adults With Reduced Renal FunctionCreatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) Dose Frequency > 20 750 mg - 1 . 5 grams q8h 10 - 20 750 mg q12h < 10 750 mg q24h [ 1 ] [ 1 ] Since Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is dialyzable , patients on hemodialysis should be given a further dose at the end of the dialysis .
When only serum creatinine is available , the following formula2 ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Males : Creatinine clearance ( mL / min ) = Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 – age ) 72 x serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) Females : 0 . 85 x male value NOTE : As with antibiotic therapy in general , administration of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained ; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is recommended in infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ; frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed ; persistent infections may require treatment for several weeks ; and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used .
In staphylococcal and other infections involving a collection of pus , surgical drainage should be carried out where indicated .
Pediatric Patients Above 3 Months of Age : Administration of 50 to 100 mg / kg per day in equally divided doses every 6 to 8 hours has been successful for most infections susceptible to cefuroxime .
The higher dosage of 100 mg / kg per day ( not to exceed the maximum adult dosage ) should be used for the more severe or serious infections .
In bone and joint infections , 150 mg / kg per day ( not to exceed the maximum adult dosage ) is recommended in equally divided doses every 8 hours .
In clinical trials , a course of oral antibiotics was administered to pediatric patients following the completion of parenteral administration of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP .
In cases of bacterial meningitis , a larger dosage of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is recommended , 200 to 240 mg / kg per day intravenously in divided doses every 6 to 8 hours .
In pediatric patients with renal insufficiency , the frequency of dosing should be modified consistent with the recommendations for adults .
Preparation of Solution and Suspension The directions for preparing Cefuroxime for Injection , USP for both IV and IM use are summarized in Table 3 .
For Intramuscular Use : Each 750 mg vial of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be constituted with 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
Shake gently to disperse and withdraw completely the resulting suspension for injection .
For Intravenous Use : Each 750 mg vial should be constituted with 8 . 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
Withdraw completely the resulting solution for injection .
Each 1 . 5 gram vial should be constituted with 16 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , and the solution should be completely withdrawn for injection .
Each 750 mg and 1 . 5 gram infusion bottle should be constituted with 100 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or any of the solutions listed under the Intravenous portion of the Compatibility and Stability section .
Table 3 : Preparation of Solution and SuspensionStrength Amount of Diluent to be Added ( mL ) Volume to be Withdrawn Approximate Cefuroxime Concentration ( mg / mL ) 750 mg Vial 3 ( IM ) Total [ 1 ] 225 750 mg Vial 8 . 3 ( IV ) Total 90 1 . 5 gram Vial 16 ( IV ) Total 90 750 mg Infusion bottle 100 ( IV ) - 7 . 5 1 . 5 gram Infusion bottle 100 ( IV ) - 15 [ 1 ] Note : Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is a suspension at IM concentrations .
Administration After constitution , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may be given intravenously or by deep IM injection into a large muscle mass ( such as the gluteus or lateral part of the thigh ) .
Before injecting intramuscularly , aspiration is necessary to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel .
Intravenous Administration : The IV route may be preferable for patients with bacterial septicemia or other severe or life - threatening infections or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance , particularly if shock is present or impending .
For direct intermittent IV administration , slowly inject the solution into a vein over a period of 3 to 5 minutes or give it through the tubing system by which the patient is also receiving other IV solutions .
For intermittent IV infusion with a Y - type administration set , dosing can be accomplished through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other IV solutions .
However , during infusion of the solution containing Cefuroxime for Injection , USP , it is advisable to temporarily discontinue administration of any other solutions at the same site .
For continuous IV infusion , a solution of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may be added to an IV infusion pack containing one of the following fluids : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose Injection ; 10 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; or 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection .
Solutions of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction .
However , if concurrent therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and an aminoglycoside is indicated , each of these antibiotics can be administered separately to the same patient .
Compatibility and Stability Intramuscular : When constituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , suspensions of cefuroxime for IM injection maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature and for 48 hours under refrigeration ( 5 ° C ) .
After the periods mentioned above any unused suspensions should be discarded .
Intravenous : When the 750 mg and 1 . 5 g vials are constituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , the solutions Cefuroxime for Injection , USP for IV administration maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature and for 48 hours ( 750 mg and 1 . 5 g vials ) under refrigeration ( 5 ° C ) .
More dilute solutions , such as 750 mg or 1 . 5 g plus 100 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , also maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature and for 7 days under refrigeration .
These solutions may be further diluted to concentrations of between 1 and 30 mg / mL in the following solutions and will lose not more than 10 % activity for 24 hours at room temperature or for at least 7 days under refrigeration : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection ; Ringer ’ s Injection , USP ; Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 225 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 10 % Dextrose Injection ; and 10 % Invert Sugar in Water for Injection .
Unused solutions should be discarded after the time periods mentioned above .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP has also been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature when admixed in IV infusion with heparin ( 10 and 50 U / mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection and Potassium Chloride ( 10 and 40 mEq / L ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP is not recommended for the dilution of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP .
Frozen Stability : Constitute the 750 mg or 1 . 5 g vial as directed for IV administration in Table 3 .
Immediately withdraw the total contents of the 750 mg or 1 . 5 g vial and add to a minibag containing 50 or 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection and freeze .
Frozen solutions are stable for 6 months when stored at - 20 ° C . Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen .
Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation .
Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days in a refrigerator .
Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration whenever solution and container permit .
As with other cephalosporins , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP powder as well as solutions and suspensions tend to darken , depending on storage conditions , without adversely affecting product potency .
HOW SUPPLIED Store Cefuroxime for Injection , USP at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect From Light .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is a dry , white to off - white powder supplied in vials and infusion bottles as follows : Cefuroxime for Injection , USP equivalent to 750 mg or 1 . 5 grams cefuroxime per vial or infusion bottle .
NDC 44567 - 710 - 10 750 mg vial ( Carton of 10 ) NDC 44567 - 711 - 10 1 . 5 gram vial ( Carton of 10 ) NDC 44567 - 720 - 10 750 mg infusion bottle ( Carton of 10 ) NDC 44567 - 722 - 10 1 . 5 gram infusion bottle ( Carton of 10 ) Also available : Cefuroxime for Injection , USP Pharmacy Bulk Package equivalent to 7 . 5 grams of cefuroxime per Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle .
NDC 44567 - 712 - 10 Pharmacy Bulk Package bottles - 7 . 5 grams ( Carton of 10 ) REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing .
Third Informational Supplement .
NCCLS Document M100 - S3 , Vol .
11 , No . 17 .
Villanova , Pa : NCCLS ; 1991 .
• Cockcroft DW , Gault MH .
Prediction of creatinine clearance from serum creatinine .
Nephron .
1976 ; 16 : 31 - 41 .
CLINITEST ® is a registered trademark of Ames Division , Miles Laboratories , Inc .
Manufactured for : WG Critical Care , LLC Paramus , NJ 07652 Revised : October 2012 SP100467 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 44567 - 710 - 10 Cefuroxime for Injection , USP 750 mg per vial Equivalent to 750 mg of cefuroxime activity For IV or IM Use Rx only WG Critical Care [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 44567 - 720 - 10 Cefuroxime for Injection , USP 750 mg per vial Equivalent to 750 mg of cefuroxime activity For IV Use Rx only WG Critical Care [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 44567 - 711 - 10 Cefuroxime for Injection , USP 1 . 5 gram per vial Equivalent to 1 . 5 grams of cefuroxime activity For IV Use Rx only WG Critical Care [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 44567 - 722 - 10 Cefuroxime for Injection , USP 1 . 5 gram per vial Equivalent to 1 . 5 grams of cefuroxime activity For IV Use Rx only WG Critical Care [ MULTIMEDIA ]
