CAUTION Mercaptopurine is a potent drug .
It should not be used unless a diagnosis of acute lymphatic leukemia has been adequately established and the responsible physician is experienced with the risks of mercatopurine and knowledgeable in assessing response to chemotherapy .
DESCRIPTION Mercaptopurine was synthesized and developed by Hitchings , Elion , and associates at the Wellcome Research Laboratories .
Mercaptopurine , known chemically as 1 , 7 - dihydro - 6 H - purine - 6 - thione monohydrate , is an analogue of the purine bases adenine and hypoxanthine .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mercaptopurine is available in tablet form for oral administration .
Each scored tablet contains 50 mg mercaptopurine and the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose NF , lactose monohydrate NF , stearic acid NF , and colloidal silicon dioxide NF .
Mercaptopurine Tablets USP meet USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Mercaptopurine ( 6 - MP ) competes with hypoxanthine and guanine for the enzyme hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase ( HGPRTase ) and is itself converted to thioinosinic acid ( TIMP ) .
This intracellular nucleotide inhibits several reactions involving inosinic acid ( IMP ) , including the conversion of IMP to xanthylic acid ( XMP ) and the conversion of IMP to adenylic acid ( AMP ) via adenylosuccinate ( SAMP ) .
In addition , 6 - methylthioinosinate ( MTIMP ) is formed by the methylation of TIMP .
Both TIMP and MTIMP have been reported to inhibit glutamine - 5 - phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase , the first enzyme unique to the de novo pathway for purine ribonucleotide synthesis .
Experiments indicate that radiolabeled mercaptopurine may be recovered from the DNA in the form of deoxythioguanosine .
Some mercaptopurine is converted to nucleotide derivatives of 6 - thioguanine ( 6 - TG ) by the sequential action of inosinate ( IMP ) dehydrogenase and xanthylate ( XMP ) aminase , converting TIMP to thioguanylic acid ( TGMP ) .
Animal tumors that are resistant to mercaptopurine often have lost the ability to convert mercaptopurine to TIMP .
However , it is clear that resistance to mercaptopurine may be acquired by other means as well , particularly in human leukemias .
It is not known exactly which of any one or more of the biochemical effects of mercaptopurine and its metabolites are directly or predominantly responsible for cell death .
Pharmacokinetics : Clinical studies have shown that the absorption of an oral dose of mercaptopurine in humans is incomplete and variable , averaging approximately 50 % of the administered dose .
The factors influencing absorption are unknown .
Intravenous administration of an investigational preparation of mercaptopurine revealed a plasma half - disappearance time of 21 minutes in pediatric patients and 47 minutes in adults .
The volume of distribution usually exceeded that of the total body water .
Following the oral administration of 35 S - 6 - mercaptopurine in one subject , a total of 46 % of the dose could be accounted for in the urine ( as parent drug and metabolites ) in the first 24 hours .
There is negligible entry of mercaptopurine into cerebrospinal fluid .
Plasma protein binding averages 19 % over the concentration range 10 to 50 mcg / mL ( a concentration only achieved by intravenous administration of mercaptopurine at doses exceeding 5 to 10 mg / kg ) .
A reduction in mercaptopurine dosage is required if patients are receiving both mercaptopurine and allopurinol ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Metabolism and Genetic Polymorphism : Variability in mercaptopurine metabolism is one of the major causes of interindividual differences in systemic exposure to the drug and its active metabolites .
Mercaptopurine activation occurs via hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( HGPRT ) and several enzymes to form 6 - thioguanine nucleotides ( 6 - TGNs ) .
The cytotoxicity of mercaptopurine is due , in part , to the incorporation of 6 - TGN into DNA .
Mercaptopurine is inactivated via two major pathways .
One is thiol methylation , which is catalyzed by the polymorphic enzyme thiopurine S - methyltransferase ( TPMT ) , to form the inactive metabolite methyl - 6 - MP .
TPMT activity is highly variable in patients because of a genetic polymorphism in the TPMT gene .
For Caucasians and African Americans , approximately 0 . 3 % ( 1 : 300 ) of patients have two non - functional alleles ( homozygous - deficient ) of the TPMT gene and have little or no detectable enzyme activity .
Approximately 10 % of patients have one TPMT non - functional allele ( heterozygous ) leading to low or intermediate TPMT activity and 90 % of individuals have normal TPMT activity with two functional alleles .
Homozygous - deficient patients ( two non - functional alleles ) , if given usual doses of mercaptopurine , accumulate excessive cellular concentrations of active thioguanine nucleotides predisposing them to mercaptopurine toxicity ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Heterozygous patients with low or intermediate TPMT activity accumulate higher concentrations of active thioguanine nucleotides than people with normal TPMT activity and are more likely to experience mercaptopurine toxicity ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
TPMT genotyping or phenotyping ( red blood cell TPMT activity ) can identify patients who are homozygous deficient or have low or intermediate TPMT activity ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections ) .
Another inactivation pathway is oxidation , which is catalyzed by xanthine oxidase ( XO ) and forms 6 - thiouric acid .
Xanthine oxidase is inhibited by ZYLOPRIM ® ( allopurinol ) .
Concomitant use of allopurinol with mercaptopurine decreases the catabolism of mercaptopurine and its active metabolites leading to mercaptopurine toxicity .
A reduction in mercaptopurine dosage is therefore required if patients are receiving both mercaptopurine and allopurinol ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
After oral administration of 35 S - 6 - mercaptopurine , urine contains intact mercaptopurine , thiouric acid ( formed by direct oxidation by xanthine oxidase , probably via 6 - mercapto - 8 - hydroxypurine ) , and a number of 6 - methylated thiopurines .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mercaptopurine tablets are indicated for maintenance therapy of acute lymphatic ( lymphocytic , lymphoblastic ) leukemia as part of a combination regimen .
The response to this agent depends upon the particular subclassification of acute lymphatic leukemia and the age of the patient ( pediatric or adult ) .
Mercaptopurine is not effective for prophylaxis or treatment of central nervous system leukemia .
Mercaptopurine is not effective in acute myelogenous leukemia , chronic lymphatic leukemia , the lymphomas ( including Hodgkins Disease ) , or solid tumors .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Mercaptopurine tablets should not be used in patients whose disease has demonstrated prior resistance to this drug .
In animals and humans , there is usually complete cross - resistance between mercaptopurine and thioguanine .
Mercaptopurine should not be used in patients who have a hypersensitivity to mercaptopurine or any component of the formulation .
WARNINGS Mercaptopurine is mutagenic in animals and humans , carcinogenic in animals , and may increase the patient ' s risk of neoplasia .
Cases of hepatosplenic T - cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with mercaptopurine for inflammatory bowel disease .
The safety and efficacy of mercaptopurine in patients with inflammatory bowel disease have not been established .
Bone Marrow Toxicity : The most consistent , dose - related toxicity is bone marrow suppression .
This may be manifest by anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , or any combination of these .
Any of these findings may also reflect progression of the underlying disease .
In many patients with severe depression of the formed elements of the blood due to mercaptopurine , the bone marrow appears hypoplastic on aspiration or biopsy , whereas in other cases it may appear normocellular .
The qualitative changes in the erythroid elements towards the megaloblastic series , characteristically seen with the folic acid antagonists and some other antimetabolites , are not seen with this drug .
Life - threatening infections and bleeding have been observed as a consequence of mercaptopurine - induced granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia .
Since mercaptopurine may have a delayed effect , it is important to withdraw the medication temporarily at the first sign of an unexpected abnormally large fall in any of the formed elements of the blood , if not attributable to another drug or disease process .
Individuals who are homozygous for an inherited defect in the TPMT ( thiopurine - S - methyltransferase ) gene are unusually sensitive to the myelosuppressive effects of mercaptopurine and prone to developing rapid bone marrow suppression following the initiation of treatment .
Laboratory tests are available , both genotypic and phenotypic , to determine the TPMT status .
Substantial dose reductions are generally required for homozygous - TPMT deficient patients ( two non - functional alleles ) to avoid the development of life threatening bone marrow suppression .
Although heterozygous patients with intermediate TPMT activity may have increased mercaptopurine toxicity , this is variable , and the majority of patients tolerate normal doses of mercaptopurine .
If a patient has clinical or laboratory evidence of severe toxicity , particularly myelosuppression , TPMT testing should be considered .
In patients who exhibit excessive myelosuppression due to 6 - mercaptopurine , it may be possible to adjust the mercaptopurine dose and administer the usual dosage of other myelosuppressive chemotherapy as required for treatment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Bone marrow toxicity may be more profound in patients treated with concomitant allopurinol ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
This problem could be exacerbated by coadministration with drugs that inhibit TPMT , such as olsalazine , mesalazine , or sulphasalazine .
Hepatotoxicity : Mercaptopurine is hepatotoxic in animals and humans .
A small number of deaths have been reported that may have been attributed to hepatic necrosis due to administration of mercaptopurine .
Hepatic injury can occur with any dosage , but seems to occur with more frequency when doses of 2 . 5 mg / kg / day are exceeded .
The histologic pattern of mercaptopurine hepatotoxicity includes features of both intrahepatic cholestasis and parenchymal cell necrosis , either of which may predominate .
It is not clear how much of the hepatic damage is due to direct toxicity from the drug and how much may be due to a hypersensitivity reaction .
In some patients jaundice has cleared following withdrawal of mercaptopurine and reappeared with its reintroduction .
Published reports have cited widely varying incidences of overt hepatotoxicity .
In a large series of patients with various neoplastic diseases , mercaptopurine was administered orally in doses ranging from 2 . 5 mg / kg to 5 . 0 mg / kg without evidence of hepatotoxicity .
It was noted by the authors that no definite clinical evidence of liver damage could be ascribed to the drug , although an occasional case of serum hepatitis did occur in patients receiving 6 - MP who previously had transfusions .
In reports of smaller cohorts of adult and pediatric leukemic patients , the incidence of hepatotoxicity ranged from 0 % to 6 % .
In an isolated report by Einhorn and Davidsohn , jaundice was observed more frequently ( 40 % ) , especially when doses exceeded 2 . 5 mg / kg .
Usually , clinically detectable jaundice appears early in the course of treatment ( 1 to 2 months ) .
However , jaundice has been reported as early as 1 week and as late as 8 years after the start of treatment with mercaptopurine .
The hepatotoxicity has been associated in some cases with anorexia , diarrhea , jaundice and ascites .
Hepatic encephalopathy has occurred .
Monitoring of serum transaminase levels , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin levels may allow early detection of hepatotoxicity .
It is advisable to monitor these liver function tests at weekly intervals when first beginning therapy and at monthly intervals thereafter .
Liver function tests may be advisable more frequently in patients who are receiving mercaptopurine with other hepatotoxic drugs or with known pre - existing liver disease .
The onset of clinical jaundice , hepatomegaly , or anorexia with tenderness in the right hypochondrium are immediate indications for withholding mercaptopurine until the exact etiology can be identified .
Likewise , any evidence of deterioration in liver function studies , toxic hepatitis , or biliary stasis should prompt discontinuation of the drug and a search for an etiology of the hepatotoxicity .
The concomitant administration of mercaptopurine with other hepatotoxic agents requires especially careful clinical and biochemical monitoring of hepatic function .
Combination therapy involving mercaptopurine with other drugs not felt to be hepatotoxic should nevertheless be approached with caution .
The combination of mercaptopurine with doxorubicin was reported to be hepatotoxic in 19 of 20 patients undergoing remission - induction therapy for leukemia resistant to previous therapy .
Immunosuppression : Mercaptopurine recipients may manifest decreased cellular hypersensitivities and decreased allograft rejection .
Induction of immunity to infectious agents or vaccines will be subnormal in these patients ; the degree of immunosuppression will depend on antigen dose and temporal relationship to drug .
This immunosuppressive effect should be carefully considered with regard to intercurrent infections and risk of subsequent neoplasia .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category D . Mercaptopurine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women receiving mercaptopurine in the first trimester of pregnancy have an increased incidence of abortion ; the risk of malformation in offspring surviving first trimester exposure is not accurately known .
In a series of 28 women receiving mercaptopurine after the first trimester of pregnancy , 3 mothers died undelivered , 1 delivered a stillborn child , and 1 aborted ; there were no cases of macroscopically abnormal fetuses .
Since such experience cannot exclude the possibility of fetal damage , mercaptopurine should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit clearly justifies the possible risk to the fetus , and particular caution should be given to the use of mercaptopurine in the first trimester of pregnancy .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking the drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
PRECAUTIONS General : The safe and effective use of mercaptopurine demands close monitoring of the CBC and patient clinical status .
After selection of an initial dosage schedule , therapy will frequently need to be modified depending upon the patient ' s response and manifestations of toxicity .
It is probably advisable to start with lower dosages in patients with impaired renal function , due to slower elimination of the drug and metabolites and a greater cumulative effects .
Information for Patients : Patients should be informed that the major toxicities of mercaptopurine are related to myelosuppression , hepatotoxicity , and gastrointestinal toxicity .
Patients should never be allowed to take the drug without medical supervision and should be advised to consult their physician if they experience fever , sore throat , jaundice , nausea , vomiting , signs of local infection , bleeding from any site , or symptoms suggestive of anemia .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Laboratory Tests : ( Also see WARNINGS , Bone Marrow Toxicity ) It is recommended that evaluation of the hemoglobin or hematocrit , total white blood cell count and differential count , and quantitative platelet count be obtained weekly while the patient is on therapy with mercaptopurine .
Bone marrow examination may also be useful for the evaluation of marrow status .
The decision to increase , decrease , continue , or discontinue a given dosage of mercaptopurine must be based upon the degree of severity and rapidity with which changes are occurring .
In many instances , particularly during the induction phase of acute leukemia , complete blood counts will need to be done more frequently than once weekly in order to evaluate the effect of the therapy .
If a patient has clinical or laboratory evidence of severe bone marrow toxicity , particularly myelosuppression , TPMT testing should be considered .
TPMT Testing : Genotypic and phenotypic testing of TPMT status are available .
Genotypic testing can determine the allelic pattern of a patient .
Currently , 3 alleles — TPMT * 2 , TPMT * 3 A and TPMT * 3 C — account for about 95 % of individuals with reduced levels of TPMT activity .
Individuals homozygous for these alleles are TPMT deficient and those heterozygous for these alleles have variable TPMT ( low or intermediate ) activity .
Phenotypic testing determines the level of thiopurine nucleotides or TPMT activity in erythrocytes and can also be informative .
Caution must be used with phenotyping since some co - administered drugs can influence measurement of TPMT activity in blood , and recent blood transfusions will misrepresent a patient ' s actual TPMT activity .
Drug Interactions : When allopurinol and mercaptopurine are administered concomitantly , the dose of mercaptopurine must be reduced to one third to one quarter of the usual dose to avoid severe toxicity .
There is usually complete cross - resistance between mercaptopurine and thioguanine .
The dosage of mercaptopurine may need to be reduced when this agent is combined with other drugs whose primary or secondary toxicity is myelosuppression .
Enhanced marrow suppression has been noted in some patients also receiving trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole .
Inhibition of the anticoagulant effect of warfarin , when given with mercaptopurine , has been reported .
As there is in vitro evidence that aminosalicylate derivatives ( e . g . , olsalazine , mesalazine , or sulphasalazine ) inhibit the TPMT enzyme , they should be administered with caution to patients receiving concurrent mercaptopurine therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Mercaptopurine causes chromosomal aberrations in animals and humans and induces dominant - lethal mutations in male mice .
In mice , surviving female offspring of mothers who received chronic low doses of mercaptopurine during pregnancy were found sterile , or if they became pregnant , had smaller litters and more dead fetuses as compared to control animals .
Carcinogenic potential exists in humans , but the extent of the risk is unknown .
The effect of mercaptopurine on human fertility is unknown for either males or females .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D . See WARNINGS section .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from mercaptopurine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of mercaptopurine therapy did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The principal and potentially serious toxic effects of mercaptopurine are bone marrow toxicity and hepatotoxicity ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hematologic : The most frequent adverse reaction to mercaptopurine is myelosuppression .
The induction of complete remission of acute lymphatic leukemia frequently is associated with marrow hypoplasia .
Patients without TPMT enzyme activity ( homozygous - deficient ) are particularly susceptible to hematologic toxicity , and some patients with low or intermediate TPMT enzyme activity are more susceptible to hematologic toxicity than patients with normal TPMT activity ( see WARNINGS : Bone Marrrow Toxicity ) , although the latter can also experience severe toxicity .
Maintenance of remission generally involves multiple - drug regimens whose component agents cause myelosuppression .
Anemia , leukopenia , and thrombocytopenia are frequently observed .
Dosages and also schedules are adjusted to prevent life - threatening cytopenias .
Renal : Hyperuricemia and / or hyperuricosuria may occur in patients receiving mercaptopurine as a consequence of rapid cell lysis accompanying the antineoplastic effect .
Renal adverse effects can be minimized by increased hydration , urine alkalinization , and the prophylactic administration of a xanthine oxidase inhibitor such as allopurinol .
The dosage of mercaptopurine should be reduced to one third to one quarter of the usual dose if allopurinol is given concurrently .
Gastrointestinal : Intestinal ulceration has been reported .
Nausea , vomiting , and anorexia are uncommon during initial administration , but may increase with continued administration .
Mild diarrhea and sprue - like symptoms have been noted occasionally , but it is difficult at present to attribute these to the medication .
Oral lesions are rarely seen , and when they occur they resemble thrush rather than antifolic ulcerations .
Miscellaneous : The administration of mercaptopurine has been associated with skin rashes and hyperpigmentation .
Alopecia has been reported .
Drug fever has been very rarely reported with mercaptopurine .
Before attributing fever to mercaptopurine , every attempt should be made to exclude more common causes of pyrexia , such as sepsis , in patients with acute leukemia .
Oligospermia has been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of overdosage may be immediate ( anorexia , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) ; or delayed ( myelosuppression , liver dysfunction , and gastroenteritis ) .
Dialysis cannot be expected to clear mercaptopurine .
Hemodialysis is thought to be of marginal use due to the rapid intracellular incorporation of mercaptopurine into active metabolites with long persistence .
The oral LD50 of mercaptopurine was determined to be 480 mg / kg in the mouse and 425 mg / kg in the rat .
There is no known pharmacologic antagonist of mercaptopurine .
The drug should be discontinued immediately if unintended toxicity occurs during treatment .
If a patient is seen immediately following an accidental overdosage of the drug , it may be useful to induce emesis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Maintenance Therapy : Once a complete hematologic remission is obtained , maintenance therapy is considered essential .
Maintenance doses will vary from patient to patient .
The usual daily maintenance dose of mercaptopurine is 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day as a single dose .
It is to be emphasized that in pediatric patients with acute lymphatic leukemia in remission , superior results have been obtained when mercaptopurine has been combined with other agents ( most frequently with methotrexate ) for remission maintenance .
Mercaptopurine should rarely be relied upon as a single agent for the maintenance of remissions induced in acute leukemia .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published .
1 - 8 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
Dosage with Concomitant Allopurinol : When allopurinol and mercaptopurine are administered concomitantly , the dose of mercaptopurine must be reduced to one third to one quarter of the usual dose to avoid severe toxicity .
Dosage in TPMT - deficient Patients : Patients with inherited little or no thiopurine - S - methyltransferase ( TPMT ) activity are at increased risk for severe mercaptopurine toxicity from conventional doses of mercaptopurine and generally require substantial dose reduction .
The optimal starting dose for homozygous deficient patients has not been established ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections ) .
Most patients with heterozygous TPMT deficiency tolerated recommended mercaptopurine doses , but some require dose reduction .
Genotypic and phenotypic testing of TPMT status are available .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS sections . )
Dosage in Renal and Hepatic Impairment : It is probably advisable to start with lower dosages in patients with impaired renal function , due to slower elimination of the drug and metabolites and a greater cumulative effect .
Consideration should be given to reducing the dosage in patients with impaired hepatic function .
HOW SUPPLIED Light yellow to off white , diamond shaped , scored tablets containing 50 mg mercaptopurine , debossed with “ P02 ” ; bottles of 60 ( NDC 49884 - 922 - 02 ) , and 250 ( NDC 49884 - 922 - 04 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) in a dry place .
See USP controlled room temperature .
REFERENCES • 1 .
ONS Clinical Practice Committee .
Cancer Chemotherapy Guidelines and Recommendations for Practice .
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society ; 1999 : 32 - 41 .
• 2 .
Recommendations for the safe handling of parenteral antineoplastic drugs .
Washington , DC : Division of Safety ; Clinical Center Pharmacy Department and Cancer Nursing Services , National Institutes of Health ; 1992 .
US Dept of Health and Human Services .
Public Health Service publication NIH 92 - 2621 .
• 3 .
AMA Council on Scientific Affairs .
Guidelines for handling parenteral antineoplastics .
JAMA .
1985 ; 253 : 1590 - 1591 .
• 4 .
National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure .
Recommendations for handling cytotoxic agents .
1987 .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure .
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , MA 02115 .
• 5 .
Clinical Oncological Society of Australia .
Guidelines and recommendations for safe handling of antineoplastic agents .
Med J Australia .
1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
• 6 .
Jones RB , Frank R , Mass T . Safe handling of chemotherapeutic agents : a report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA - A Cancer J for Clinicians .
1983 ; 33 : 258 - 263 .
• 7 .
American Society of Hospital Pharmacists .
ASHP technical assistance bulletin on handling cytotoxic and hazardous drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm .
1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• 8 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines . )
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
1996 ; 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
Distributed by : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES , INC .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 ZYLOPRIM ® is a registered trademark of Prometheus Laboratories Inc .
Revised : 05 / 12 OS922 - 02 - 1 - 06 MR001C Principal Display Panel 50 mg 60 tablets bottle NDC 49884 - 922 - 02 Mercaptopurine Tablets , USP 50 mg Rx only Cytotoxic agent 60 Tablets Par Pharmaceutical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
