40 mg * * 30 * mg Immediate Release & 10 mg Delayed Release beads Rx Only KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN The dosage of ORACEA differs from that of doxycycline used to treat infections .
To reduce the development of resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , ORACEA should be used only as indicated .
ORACEA is indicated for the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea in adult patients .
This formulation of doxycycline has not been evaluated as an antibacterial in the treatment of infections .
DESCRIPTION ORACEA ( doxycycline , USP ) capsules 40 mg are hard gelatin capsule shells filled with two types of doxycycline beads ( 30 mg immediate release and 10 mg delayed release ) that together provide a dose of 40 mg of anhydrous doxycycline ( C22H24N2O8 ) .
The structural formula of doxycycline , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] with an empirical formula of C22H24N2O8 • H2O and a molecular weight of 462 . 46 .
The chemical designation for doxycycline is 2 - Naphthacenecarboxamide , 4 - ( dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 5 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - pentahydroxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 11 - dioxo - , [ 4 S - ( 4aα , 4aα , 5α , 5aα , 6 a , 12aα ) ] - , monohydrate .
It is very slightly soluble in water .
Inert ingredients in the formulation are : hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol , Polysorbate 80 , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Active ingredients : Each capsule contains doxycycline , USP in an amount equivalent to 40 mg of anhydrous doxycycline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ORACEA capsules are not bioequivalent to other doxycycline products .
The pharmacokinetics of doxycycline following oral administration of ORACEA was investigated in 2 volunteer studies involving 61 adults .
Pharmacokinetic parameters for ORACEA following single oral doses and at steady - state in healthy subjects are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ Mean ( ± SD ) ] for ORACEA N Cmax * ( ng / mL ) Tmax ** ( hr ) AUC0 - ∞ * ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) t1 / 2 ( hr ) * Single Dose 40 mg capsules 30 510 ± 220 . 7 3 . 00 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 1 ) 9227 ± 3212 . 8 21 . 2 ± 7 . 6 Steady - State *** 40 mg capsules 31 600 ± 194 . 2 2 . 00 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 0 ) 7543 ± 2443 . 9 23 . 2 ± 6 . 2 * Mean ** Median *** Day 7 AbsorptionIn a single - dose food - effect study involving administration of ORACEA to healthy volunteers , concomitant administration with a 1000 calorie , high - fat , high - protein meal that included dairy products , resulted in a decrease in the rate and extent of absorption ( Cmax and AUC ) by about 45 % and 22 % , respectively , compared to dosing under fasted conditions .
This decrease in systemic exposure can be clinically significant , and therefore if ORACEA is taken close to meal times , it is recommended that it be taken at least one hour prior to or two hours after meals .
DistributionDoxycycline is greater than 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
MetabolismMajor metabolites of doxycycline have not been identified .
However , enzyme inducers such as barbiturates , carbamazepine , and phenytoin decrease the half - life of doxycycline .
ExcretionDoxycycline is excreted in the urine and feces as unchanged drug .
It is reported that between 29 % and 55 . 4 % of an administered dose can be accounted for in the urine by 72 hours .
Terminal half - life averaged 21 . 2 hours in subjects receiving a single dose of ORACEA .
Special PopulationsGeriatricDoxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in geriatric patients .
PediatricDoxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in pediatric patients ( see WARNINGS section ) .
GenderThe pharmacokinetics of ORACEA were compared in 16 male and 14 female subjects under fed and fasted conditions .
While female subjects had a higher Cmax and AUC than male subjects , these differences were thought to be due to differences in body weight / lean body mass .
RaceDifferences in doxycycline pharmacokinetics among racial groups have not been evaluated .
Renal InsufficiencyStudies have shown no significant difference in serum half - life of doxycycline in patients with normal and severely impaired renal function .
Hemodialysis does not alter the serum half - life of doxycycline .
Hepatic InsufficiencyDoxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Gastric InsufficiencyIn a study in healthy volunteers ( N = 24 ) the bioavailability of doxycycline is reported to be reduced at high pH . This reduced bioavailability may be clinically significant in patients with gastrectomy , gastric bypass surgery or who are otherwise deemed achlorhydric .
Drug Interactions ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) MICROBIOLOGY Doxycycline is a member of the tetracycline class of antibacterial drugs .
The plasma concentrations of doxycycline achieved with ORACEA during administration ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) are less than the concentration required to treat bacterial diseases .
In vivo microbiological studies utilizing a similar drug exposure for up to 18 months demonstrated no detectable long - term effects on bacterial flora of the oral cavity , skin , intestinal tract , and vagina .
ORACEA should not be used for treating bacterial infections , providing antibacterial prophylaxis , or reducing the numbers or eliminating microorganisms associated with any bacterial disease .
CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of ORACEA in the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea was evaluated in two randomized , placebo - controlled , multi - centered , double - blind , 16 - week Phase 3 studies involving 537 patients ( total of 269 patients on ORACEA from the two studies ) with rosacea ( 10 to 40 papules and pustules and two or fewer nodules ) .
Pregnant and nursing women , patients less than 18 years of age , and patients with ocular rosacea and / or blepharitis / meibomianitis who require ophthalmologic treatment were excluded from study .
Mean baseline lesion counts were 20 and 21 for ORACEA and placebo patient groups respectively .
At Week 16 , patients in the ORACEA group were evaluated using co - primary endpoints of mean reduction in lesion counts and a dichotomized static Investigator ' s Global Assessment of Clear or Almost Clear ( defined as 1 to 2 small papules or pustules ) when compared to the placebo group in both Phase 3 studies .
Table 2 : Clinical Results of ORACEA versus Placebo Study 1 Study 2 ORACEA 40 mg N = 127 Placebo N = 124 ORACEA 40 mg N = 142 Placebo N = 144 Mean Change in Lesion Count from Baseline - 11 . 8 - 5 . 9 - 9 . 5 - 4 . 3 No ( % ) of Subjects Clear or Almost Clear in the IGA * 39 ( 30 . 7 % ) 24 ( 19 . 4 % ) 21 ( 14 . 8 % ) 9 ( 6 . 3 % ) * Investigator ' s Global Assessment Patients treated with ORACEA did not demonstrate significant improvement in erythema when compared to those treated with placebo .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ORACEA is indicated for the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea in adult patients .
No meaningful effect was demonstrated for generalized erythema ( redness ) of rosacea .
ORACEA has not been evaluated for the treatment of the erythematous , telangiectatic , or ocular components of rosacea .
Efficacy of ORACEA beyond 16 weeks and safety beyond 9 months have not been established .
This formulation of doxycycline has not been evaluated in the treatment or prevention of infections .
ORACEA should not be used for treating bacterial infections , providing antibacterial prophylaxis , or reducing the numbers or eliminating microorganisms associated with any bacterial disease .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , ORACEA should be used only as indicated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to doxycycline or any of the other tetracyclines .
WARNINGS Teratogenic effects1 ) Doxycycline , like other tetracycline - class antibiotics , can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
If any tetracycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking these drugs , the patient should be informed of the potential hazard to the fetus and treatment stopped immediately .
ORACEA should not be used during pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy ) .
2 ) The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during tooth development ( last half of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
Tetracycline drugs , therefore , should not be used during tooth development unless other drugs are not likely to be effective or are contraindicated . 3 ) All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every 6 hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can cause retardation of skeletal development on the developing fetus .
Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy section ) .
Gastrointestinal effectsPseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents and may range from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of " antibiotic - associated colitis " .
If a diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis .
Metabolic effectsThe anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline - class antibiotics may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , lower than usual total doses are indicated , and if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
PhotosensitivityPhotosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Although this was not observed during the duration of the clinical studies with ORACEA , patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using ORACEA .
If patients need to be outdoors while using ORACEA , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
PRECAUTIONS GeneralSafety of ORACEA beyond 9 months has not been established .
As with other antibiotic preparations , use of ORACEA may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible microorganisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , ORACEA should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Although not observed in clinical trials with ORACEA , the use of tetracyclines may increase the incidence of vaginal candidiasis .
ORACEA should be used with caution in patients with a history of or predisposition to candidiasis overgrowth .
Bacterial resistance to tetracyclines may develop in patients using ORACEA .
Because of the potential for drug - resistant bacteria to develop during the use of ORACEA , it should be used only as indicated .
Autoimmune SyndromesTetracyclines have been associated with the development of autoimmune syndromes .
Symptoms may be manifested by fever , rash , arthralgia , and malaise .
In symptomatic patients , liver function tests , ANA , CBC , and other appropriate tests should be performed to evaluate the patients .
Use of all tetracycline - class drugs should be discontinued immediately .
Tissue HyperpigmentationTetracycline class antibiotics are known to cause hyperpigmentation .
Tetracycline therapy may induce hyperpigmentation in many organs , including nails , bone , skin , eyes , thyroid , visceral tissue , oral cavity ( teeth , mucosa , alveolar bone ) , sclerae and heart valves .
Skin and oral pigmentation has been reported to occur independently of time or amount of drug administration , whereas other pigmentation has been reported to occur upon prolonged administration .
Skin pigmentation includes diffuse pigmentation as well as over sites of scars or injury .
Pseudotumor cerebriBulging fontanels in infants and benign intracranial hypertension in adults have been reported in individuals receiving tetracyclines .
These conditions disappeared when the drug was discontinued .
Information for PatientsSee Patient Package Insert that accompanies this Package Insert for additional information to give patients .
• Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines , including doxycycline .
Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using doxycycline .
If patients need to be outdoors while using doxycycline , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
Treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of sunburn .
• Concurrent use of doxycycline may render oral contraceptives less effective ( see Drug Interactions ) .
• Autoimmune syndromes , including drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis , vasculitis and serum sickness have been observed with tetracycline - class antibiotics , including doxycycline .
Symptoms may be manifested by arthralgia , fever , rash and malaise .
Patients who experience such symptoms should be cautioned to stop the drug immediately and seek medical help .
• Patients should be counseled about discoloration of skin , scars , teeth or gums that can arise from doxycycline therapy .
• Take ORACEA exactly as directed .
Increasing doses beyond 40 mg every morning may increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by other antibacterial drugs in the future .
• It is recommended that ORACEA not be used by pregnant or breast feeding women .
( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility , Pregnancy and Nursing Mothers sections ) .
• It is recommended that ORACEA not be used by individuals of either gender who are attempting to conceive a child ( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility , and Pregnancy sections ) .
Laboratory TestsPeriodic laboratory evaluations of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal and hepatic studies should be performed .
Appropriate tests for autoimmune syndromes should be performed as indicated .
Drug Interactions • Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
• Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
• The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
• Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by bismuth subsalicylate , proton pump inhibitors , antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and iron - containing preparations .
• Doxycycline may interfere with the effectiveness of low dose oral contraceptives .
To avoid contraceptive failure , females are advised to use a second form of contraceptive during treatment with doxycycline .
• There have been reports of pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) associated with the concomitant use of isotretinoin and tetracyclines .
Since both oral retinoids , including isotretinoin and acitretin , and the tetracyclines , primarily minocycline , can cause increased intracranial pressure , the concurrent use of an oral retinoid and a tetracycline should be avoided .
Drug / Laboratory Test InteractionsFalse elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityDoxycycline was assessed for potential to induce carcinogenesis in a study in which the compound was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats by gavage at dosages of 20 , 75 , and 200 mg / kg / day for two years .
An increased incidence of uterine polyps was observed in female rats that received 200 mg / kg / day , a dosage that resulted in a systemic exposure to doxycycline approximately 12 . 2 times that observed in female humans who use ORACEA ( exposure comparison based upon area under the curve ( AUC ) values ) .
No impact upon tumor incidence was observed in male rats at 200 mg / kg / day , or in either gender at the other dosages studied .
Evidence of oncogenic activity was obtained in studies with related compounds , i . e . , oxytetracycline ( adrenal and pituitary tumors ) and minocycline ( thyroid tumors ) .
Doxycycline demonstrated no potential to cause genetic toxicity in an in vitro point mutation study with mammalian cells ( CHO / HGPRT forward mutation assay ) or in an in vivo micronucleus assay conducted in CD - 1 mice .
However , data from an in vitro assay with CHO cells for potential to cause chromosomal aberrations suggest that doxycycline is a weak clastogen .
Oral administration of doxycycline to male and female Sprague - Dawley rats adversely affected fertility and reproductive performance , as evidenced by increased time for mating to occur , reduced sperm motility , velocity , and concentration , abnormal sperm morphology , and increased pre - and post - implantation losses .
Doxycycline induced reproductive toxicity at all dosages that were examined in this study , as even the lowest dosage tested ( 50 mg / kg / day ) induced a statistically significant reduction in sperm velocity .
Note that 50 mg / kg / day is approximately 3 . 6 times the amount of doxycycline contained in the recommended daily dose of ORACEA for a 60 - kg human when compared on the basis of AUC estimates .
Although doxycycline impairs the fertility of rats when administered at sufficient dosage , the effect of ORACEA on human fertility is unknown .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category D ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Results from animal studies indicate that doxycycline crosses the placenta and is found in fetal tissues .
Nonteratogenic effects ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Labor and DeliveryThe effect of tetracyclines on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing MothersTetracyclines are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in infants from doxycycline , ORACEA should not be used in mothers who breastfeed .
( see WARNINGS section ) .
Pediatric UseORACEA should not be used in infants and children less than 8 years of age ( see WARNINGS section ) .
ORACEA has not been studied in children of any age with regard to safety or efficacy , therefore use in children is not recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of ORACEAIn controlled clinical trials of adult patients with mild to moderate rosacea , 537 patients received ORACEA or placebo over a 16 - week period .
The most frequent adverse reactions occurring in these studies are listed in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Incidence ( % ) of Selected Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of ORACEA ( n = 269 ) vs . Placebo ( n = 268 ) ORACEA Placebo Nasopharyngitis 13 ( 4 . 8 ) 9 ( 3 . 4 ) Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Sinusitis 7 ( 2 . 6 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Nasal Congestion 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Fungal Infection 5 ( 1 . 9 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Influenza 5 ( 1 . 9 ) 3 ( 1 . 1 ) Diarrhea 12 ( 4 . 5 ) 7 ( 2 . 6 ) Abdominal Pain Upper 5 ( 1 . 9 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Abdominal Distention 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Abdmonial Pain 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Stomach Discomfort 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Dry Mouth 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Hypertension 8 ( 3 . 0 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Blood Pressure Increase 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Aspartate Aminotransferase Increase 6 ( 2 . 2 ) 2 ( 0 . 7 ) Blood Lactate Dehydrogenase Increase 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Blood Glucose Increase 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Anxiety 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 0 ( 0 ) Pain 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( 0 . 4 ) Back Pain 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Sinus Headache 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Note : Percentages based on total number of study participants in each treatment group .
Adverse Reactions for TetracyclinesThe following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving tetracyclines at higher , antimicrobial doses : Gastrointestinal : anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , glossitis , dysphagia , enterocolitis , and inflammatory lesions ( with vaginal candidiasis ) in the anogenital region .
Hepatotoxicity has been reported rarely .
Rare instances of esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients receiving the capsule forms of the drugs in the tetracycline class .
Most of the patients experiencing esophagitis and / or esophageal ulceration took their medication immediately before lying down .
( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Skin : maculopapular and erythematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported but is uncommon .
Photosensitivity is discussed above .
( see WARNINGS section ) .
Renal toxicity : Rise in BUN has been reported and is apparently dose - related .
( see WARNINGS section ) .
Hypersensitivity reactions : urticaria , angioneurotic edema , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid purpura , serum sickness , pericarditis , and exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Blood : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and eosinophilia have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures .
Dialysis does not alter serum half - life and thus would not be of benefit in treating cases of overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE DOSAGE OF ORACEA DIFFERS FROM THAT OF DOXYCYCLINE USED TO TREAT INFECTIONS .
EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS INCLUDING THE DEVELOPMENT OF RESISTANT MICROORGANISMS .
One ORACEA Capsule ( 40 mg ) should be taken once daily in the morning on an empty stomach , preferably at least one hour prior to or two hours after meals .
Efficacy beyond 16 weeks and safety beyond 9 months have not been established .
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with the capsules is recommended to wash down the capsule to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration .
( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
HOW SUPPLIED ORACEA ( beige opaque capsule printed with CGPI 40 ) containing doxycycline , USP in an amount equivalent to 40 mg of anhydrous doxycycline .
Bottle of 30 ( NDC 54868 - 5676 - 0 ) .
StorageAll products are to be stored at controlled room temperatures of l5 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) and dispensed in tight , light - resistant containers ( USP ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Patent Information : U . S . Patents 5 , 789 , 395 ; 5 , 919 , 775 and patents pending .
Manufactured by : CardinalHealth Winchester , KY 40391 Marketed by : CollaGenex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Newtown , PA 18940 May 26 , 2006 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL ORACEA Capsule , 40 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
