Rx only DESCRIPTION : Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile , borate buffered , solution for topical ocular use .
The active ingredient is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H25NO3 • HCl Mol .
Wt .
327 . 85 Chemical name : 2 - ( Dimethylamino ) ethyl 1 - hydroxy - α - phenylcyclopentaneacetate hydrochloride .
Each mL Contains : ACTIVE : Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride , 10 mg ( 1 % ) INACTIVES : Boric Acid , Potassium Chloride , Edetate Disodium , Purified Water .
Sodium Carbonate and / or Hydrochloric Acid may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 0 - 5 . 5 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the accommodative muscle of the ciliary body to cholinergic stimulation , producing pupillary dilation ( mydriasis ) and paralysis of accommodation ( cycloplegia ) .
It acts rapidly , but has a shorter duration than atropine .
Maximal cycloplegia occurs within 25 to 75 minutes after instillation .
Complete recovery of accommodation usually takes 6 to 24 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require several days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is used to produce mydriasis and cycloplegia in diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Should not be used when narrow - angle glaucoma or anatomical narrow angles are present , or where there is hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS : For Topical Use Only - Not For Injection .
This preparation may cause CNS disturbances .
This is especially true in younger age groups , but may occur at any age , especially with the stronger cyclopentolate hydrochloride solution .
Premature and small infants are especially prone to CNS and cardiopulmonary side effects from systemic absorption of cyclopentolate .
To minimize absorption , use only 1 drop of a 0 . 5 % solution per eye followed by pressure applied over the nasolacrimal sac for two to three minutes .
Observe infants closely for at least 30 minutes following instillation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : To avoid inducing angle closure glaucoma , an estimation of the depth of the angle of the anterior chamber should be made .
The lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation to avoid excessive systemic absorption .
Caution should be observed when considering use of this medication in the presence of Down ’ s syndrome or mongolism , and in those predisposed to angle - closure glaucoma .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
A transient burning sensation may occur upon instillation .
Patients should be advised not to drive or engage in other hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patients may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ’ s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ’ s hands following administration .
Drug Interactions : Cyclopentolate may interfere with the antiglaucoma action of carbachol or pilocarpine ; also , concurrent use of these medications may antagonize the anti - glaucoma and miotic actions of ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies in animals or humans have not been conducted to evaluate the potential of these effects .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with cyclopentolate .
It is also not known whether cyclopentolate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cyclopentolate should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when cyclopentolate hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Increased susceptibility to cyclopentolate has been reported in pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage .
Therefore , cyclopentolate should be used with great caution in these patients .
Feeding intolerance may follow ophthalmic use of this product in neonates .
It is recommended that feeding be withheld for four ( 4 ) hours after examination .
Do not use concentrations higher than 0 . 5 % in small infants ( see WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use : In the elderly and others where increased intraocular pressure may be encountered , mydriatics and cycloplegics should be used cautiously .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Ocular : Increased intraocular pressure , burning , photophobia , blurred vision , irritation , hyperemia , conjunctivitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , punctate keratitis , synechiae .
Systemic : Use of cyclopentolate has been associated with psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances , usually in pediatric patients , especially with a 2 % concentration .
These disturbances include ataxia , incoherent speech , restlessness , hallucinations , hyperactivity , seizures , disorientation as to time and place , and failure to recognize people .
This drug produces reactions similar to those of other anticholinergic drugs , but the central nervous system manifestations as noted above are more common .
Other toxic manifestations of anticholinergic drugs are skin rash , abdominal distention in infants , unusual drowsiness , tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , vasodilation , urinary retention , diminished gastrointestinal motility and decreased secretion in salivary and sweat glands , pharynx , bronchi and nasal passages .
Severe manifestations of toxicity include coma , medullary paralysis and death .
OVERDOSAGE : Excessive dosage may produce exaggerated symptoms as noted in ADVERSE REACTIONS .
When administration of the drug product is discontinued , the patient usually recovers spontaneously .
In case of severe manifestations of toxicity the antidote of choice is physostigmine salicylate .
Pediatric Dose : As an antidote , slowly inject intravenously 0 . 5 mg physostigmine salicylate .
If toxic symptoms persist and no cholinergic symptoms are produced repeat at five minute intervals to a maximum cumulative dose of 2 mg .
Adolescent and Adult : As an antidote , slowly inject 2 mg physostigmine salicylate intravenously .
A second dose of 1 to 2 mg may be given after 20 minutes if no reversal of toxic manifestations has occurred .
1 , 2 , 3 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults : One or two drops of 0 . 5 % , 1 % or 2 % solution in the eye , which may be repeated in five to ten minutes if necessary .
Complete recovery usually occurs in 24 hours .
Pediatric Patients : One or two drops of 0 . 5 % , 1 % or 2 % solution in the eye , which may be repeated five to ten minutes later by a second application of 0 . 5 % or 1 % solution if necessary .
Small Infants : A single instillation of one drop of 0 . 5 % solution in the eye .
To minimize absorption , apply pressure over the nasolacrimal sac for two to three minutes .
Observe infant closely for at least 30 minutes following instillation .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irises may require higher strengths .
HOW SUPPLIED : Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % is available in multidose plastic squeeze bottles with a controlled drop tip and red cap in the following sizes : 15 mL bottle - NDC 42254 - 013 - 15 Storage : Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
1 .
Rumack , B . H . : Anticholinergic Poisoning : Treatment with Physostigmine .
Pediatrics 52 ( 6 ) : 449 - 51 , 1973 .
2 .
Duvoisin , R . C . and Katz , R . : Reversal of Central Anticholinergic Syndromes in Man by Physostigmine , J . Am .
Med .
Assn . 206 ( 9 ) : 1963 - 65 , 1968 .
3 .
Grant , W . M . : Toxicology of the Eye .
Second Edition , Volume 1 .
Springfield , Illinois , Charles C . Thomas : 1974 .
Revised November 2007 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Relabeled by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42254 - 013 - 15 Rebel Distributors Corp Cyclopentolate Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % ( Sterile ) Rx only [ icon - eye ] [ icon - 1 % ] [ icon - solution ] [ icon - 15 mL ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
