Active Ingredients Avobenzone , Homosalate , Octisalate , Octocrylene Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approacing a souce of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
 contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Conrol Center right away Direction ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics of surfaces Oxybenzone & Octinoxate free This product is not manufactured or distributed by S . C . Johnson & Sons , Inc . , distributor of Sun Burn Premium Moisturizing Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
DISTRUBUTED BY DOLGENCORP , LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 100 % Satisfaction Guaranteed !
( 888 ) 309 - 9030 Principal Display Panel Wild Tropics SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 OCTINOXAQTE & OXYBENZONE FREE HYPOALLERGENIC DERMATP ; PGOST TESTED WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) FRESH BANANA SCENT Compare to Sun Bum Premium Moiturizing Sunscreen Spray SPF 50 NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
