ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : ALCOHOL 68 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Methylparaben , Butylene Glycol , Fragaria Chiloensis ( Strawberry ) Fruit Extract , Pyrus Malus ( Apple ) Fruit Extract , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Citrullus Vulgaris ( Watermelon ) Fruit Extract , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Capsicum Annuum Fruit Extract , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Glycosaminoglycans PURPOSE Purpose : SANITIZER WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Do not use the product on the following body parts : Around the eyes and ears , in the mouth , large body parts and damaged skin ( Irritation may occur ) 2 .
If you experience any of the following symptoms , discontinue use of the product immediately and consult a physician or pharmacist .
1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms , e . g . rash , erythema , itchiness , and edema 2 ) Skin irritation symptoms 3 .
Other precautions 1 ) For external use only ( do not swallow ) .
2 ) Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , wash with clean water and consult a doctor or pharmacist .
3 ) Be careful not to inhale vapors in cases of extended or prolonged use .
( Repeating inhaling of large amounts of ethanol vapor may cause irritation of the mucous membranes and headaches ) .
( Limited to ethanol - containing products ) 4 ) If used repeatedly in the same area , care should be provided as the skin may become rough due to excessive oil removal .
5 ) Do not use sealed bandages , cast bandages , or packs as they may cause irritation .
6 ) Do not use this drug on the anal or vagina areas , or with hot packs , as it may cause irritation or chemical burns .
7 ) Use only for the intended purposes .
4 .
Precautions for storage 1 ) Keep away from direct sunlight and do not expose the product to heating devices or flame .
2 ) Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed .
3 ) After use , close the lid completely to prevent the product from drying or foreign objects from getting inside the container .
4 ) Storing the product in a different container may cause accidents or deterioration of quality .
Therefore , keep the product in its original container .
Dust or foreign substances may get on the product while using it .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed .
Uses Uses : It contains 68 % ethanol and sterilizes 99 . 9 % virus while also being mild and soft on your hands .
Directions Directions : Take an appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly to dry PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
