Rx Only For external use only DESCRIPTION Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designed as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; molecular weight is 110 . 11 g / mol .
The chemical structure is in the diagram below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Clear contains : Active ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive ingredients : water , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , lactic acid , tocopheryl acetate , ascorbic acid , sodium metabisulfite , disodium EDTA , methylparaben , BHT , propylparaben , saponins , butylparaben Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Blender contains : Active ingredient : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) Inactive ingredients : water , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , sodium lauryl sulfate , TEA - salicylate , lactic acid , phenyl trimethicone , tocopheryl acetate , sodium metabisulfite , ascorbic acid , methylparaben , disodium EDTA , propylparaben , saponins , BHT Each gram of Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader contains : Active ingredients : Hydroquinone USP , 4 % ( 40 mg / g ) ; Octinoxate USP , 7 . 5 % ; Oxybenzone USP , 5 . 5 % Inactive ingredients : water , cetyl alcohol , glycerin , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , ascorbic acid , sodium metabisulfite , disodium EDTA , methylparaben , BHT , saponins , propylparaben , butylparaben [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunblocking agents or sunscreen agents contained in Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader and Obagi Nu - Derm Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS People with prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients should not use it .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Hydroquinone is a skin - bleaching agent , which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this product .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , product should be discontinued and physician consulted .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Warnings : Avoid contact with eyes , nose , mouth , and lips . In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse thoroughly with water and contact a physician .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS ( Also see WARNINGS ) Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation , which does not preclude treatment .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
Pediatric Usage Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the product should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin application should be applied once or twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure should be limited by using a sunscreen agent , a sunblocking agent , or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent darkening from reoccurring .
HOW SUPPLIED Obagi Nu - Derm Clear is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 101 - 36 Obagi Nu - Derm Blender is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 36 Net wt .
1 oz .
( 28 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 100 - 10 Obagi Nu - Derm Sunfader is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 116 - 36 Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° C - 25 ° C ( 59 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Keep out of direct sunlight .
⍰ 1 - 800 - 636 - 7546 Manufactured for : Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC , Long Beach , CA 90806 All products / brand names , whether designated by notice or not ( ® / TM ) , are trademarks of Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC © 2018 Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC .
All rights reserved .
www . obagi . com Revised 03 / 2018 9458403 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g Bottle Label - 3 OBAGI NU - DERM ® NDC 62032 - 101 - 36 AM CLEAR PM 3 SKIN BLEACHING & CORRECTOR CREAM HYDROQUINONE USP , 4 % Rx ONLY Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g Bottle Label - 5 OBAGI NU - DERM ® NDC 62032 - 100 - 36 BLENDER ® PM 5 SKIN LIGHTENER & BLENDING CREAM HYDROQUINONE USP , 4 % Rx ONLY Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g Bottle Label - 6 OBAGI NU - DERM ® NDC 62032 - 116 - 36 AM 6 SUNFADER ® HYDROQUINONE USP , 4 % SKIN LIGHTENER WITH SUNSCREEN ( SPF 15 ) PABA - FREE Rx only Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
