1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Darifenacin extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency and frequency .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency and frequency ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets is 7 . 5 mg orally once daily .
Based upon individual response , the dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily , as early as two weeks after starting therapy .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be taken orally once daily with water .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets may be taken with or without food , and should be swallowed whole and not chewed , divided or crushed .
For patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) or when co - administered with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , nelfinavir , clarithromycin and nefazadone ) , the daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets should not exceed 7 . 5 mg .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended starting dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets is 7 . 5 mg once daily .
Based upon individual response , the dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily , as early as two weeks after starting therapy ( 2 ) The daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets should not exceed 7 . 5 mg in the following patients : • Patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) ( 2 , 8 . 6 ) • Patients taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2 , 7 . 1 ) Darifenacin extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) ( 2 , 8 . 6 ) Darifenacin extended - release tablets may be taken with or without food .
The tablet should be swallowed whole with water and not chewed , divided or crushed ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg are white colored , round convex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ Z ” on one side and “ 22 ” on other side .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg are light peach colored , round convex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ Z ” on one side and “ 23 ” on other side .
Extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Darifenacin extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with , or at risk for , the following conditions : • urinary retention • gastric retention , or • uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with , or at risk for , the following conditions ( 4 ) : • urinary retention , • gastric retention , or • uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention ( 5 . 1 ) • Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention ( 5 . 2 ) • Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma and only where the potential benefits outweigh the risks ( 5 . 3 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how darifenacin extended - release tablets affect them ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Urinary Retention Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
5 . 2 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as severe constipation , ulcerative colitis , and myasthenia gravis .
5 . 3 Controlled Narrow - Angle Glaucoma Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma and only where the potential benefits outweigh the risks .
5 . 4 Angioedema Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue , and / or larynx have been reported with darifenacin .
In some cases angioedema occurred after the first dose .
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening .
If involvement of the tongue , hypopharynx , or larynx occurs , darifenacin should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided .
5 . 5 Central Nervous System Effects Darifenacin extended - release tablets are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including headache , confusion , hallucinations and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how darifenacin extended - release tablets affect them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
5 . 6 Patients with Hepatic Impairment The daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets should not exceed 7 . 5 mg for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) and therefore are not recommended for use in this patient population [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( greater than 3 % ) for darifenacin extended - release tablets are : constipation , dry mouth , headache , dyspepsia , nausea , urinary tract infection , accidental injury , and flu symptoms ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of darifenacin extended - release tablets was evaluated in controlled clinical trials in a total of 8 , 830 patients , 6 , 001 of whom were treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Of this total , 1 , 069 patients participated in three , 12 - week , randomized , placebo - controlled , fixed - dose efficacy and safety studies ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) .
Of this total , 337 and 334 patients received darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg daily and 15 mg daily , respectively .
In all long - term trials combined , 1 , 216 and 672 patients received treatment with darifenacin extended - release tablets for at least 24 and 52 weeks , respectively .
In Studies 1 , 2 and 3 combined , the serious adverse reactions to darifenacin extended - release tablets were urinary retention and constipation .
In Studies 1 , 2 and 3 combined , dry mouth leading to study discontinuation occurred in 0 % , 0 . 9 % , and 0 % of patients treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg daily , darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg daily and placebo , respectively .
Constipation leading to study discontinuation occurred in 0 . 6 % , 1 . 2 % , and 0 . 3 % of patients treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg daily , darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg daily and placebo , respectively .
Table 1 lists the rates of identified adverse reactions , derived from all reported adverse events in 2 % or more of patients treated with 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg darifenacin extended - release tablets , and greater than placebo in Studies 1 , 2 and 3 .
In these studies , the most frequently reported adverse reactions were dry mouth and constipation .
The majority of the adverse reactions were mild or moderate in severity and most occurred during the first two weeks of treatment .
Table 1 : Incidence of Identified Adverse Reactions , Derived from All Adverse Events Reported in greater than or equal to 2 % of Patients Treated with Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets and More Frequent with Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets than with Placebo in Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 Body System Adverse Reaction % of Subjects Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg N = 337 Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 15 mg N = 334 Placebo N = 388 Digestive Dry Mouth 20 . 2 35 . 3 8 . 2 Constipation 14 . 8 21 . 3 6 . 2 Dyspepsia 2 . 7 8 . 4 2 . 6 Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 3 . 9 0 . 5 Nausea 2 . 7 1 . 5 1 . 5 Diarrhea 2 . 1 0 . 9 1 . 8 Urogenital Urinary Tract Infection 4 . 7 4 . 5 2 . 6 Nervous Dizziness 0 . 9 2 . 1 1 . 3 Body as a Whole Asthenia 1 . 5 2 . 7 1 . 3 Eye Dry Eyes 1 . 5 2 . 1 0 . 5 Other adverse reactions reported by 1 % to 2 % of darifenacin extended - release tablets - treated patients include : abnormal vision , accidental injury , back pain , dry skin , flu syndrome , hypertension , vomiting , peripheral edema , weight gain , arthralgia , bronchitis , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis , rash , pruritus , urinary tract disorder and vaginitis .
Study 4 was a randomized , 12 - week , placebo - controlled , dose - titration regimen study in which darifenacin extended - release tablets was administered in accordance with dosing recommendations [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
All patients initially received placebo or darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg daily , and after two weeks , patients and physicians were allowed to adjust upward to darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg if needed .
In this study , the most commonly reported adverse reactions were also constipation and dry mouth .
Table 2 lists the identified adverse reactions , derived from all adverse events reported in greater than 3 % of patients treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets and greater than placebo .
Table 2 : Number ( % ) of Adverse Reactions , Derived from All Adverse Events Reported in greater than 3 % of Patients Treated with Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets , and More Frequent with Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets than Placebo , in Study 4 Adverse Reaction Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg / 15 mg N = 268 Placebo N = 127 Constipation 56 ( 20 . 9 % ) 10 ( 7 . 9 % ) Dry Mouth 50 ( 18 . 7 % ) 11 ( 8 . 7 % ) Headache 18 ( 6 . 7 % ) 7 ( 5 . 5 % ) Dyspepsia 12 ( 4 . 5 % ) 2 ( 1 . 6 % ) Nausea 11 ( 4 . 1 % ) 2 ( 1 . 6 % ) Urinary Tract Infection 10 ( 3 . 7 % ) 4 ( 3 . 1 % ) Accidental Injury 8 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 2 . 4 % ) Flu Syndrome 8 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 2 . 4 % ) 6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Dermatologic : erythema multiforme , interstitial granuloma annulare General : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema with airway obstruction and anaphylactic reaction Central Nervous : confusion , hallucinations and somnolence Cardiovascular : palpitations and syncope 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Caution should be taken when darifenacin extended - release tablets are used concomitantly with medications that are predominantly metabolized by CYP2D6 and which have a narrow therapeutic window , such as flecainide , thioridazine and tricyclic antidepressants ( 7 . 2 ) • The concomitant use of darifenacin extended - release tablets with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to effects of gastrointestinal motility ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors The systemic exposure of darifenacin from darifenacin extended - release tablets is increased in the presence of CYP3A4 inhibitors .
The daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets should not exceed 7 . 5 mg when co - administered with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( for example , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , nelfinavir , clarithromycin and nefazadone ) .
No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( for example , erythromycin , fluconazole , diltiazem and verapamil ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of CYP2D6 inhibitors ( for example , paroxetine , fluoxetine , quinidine and duloxetine ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 CYP2D6 Substrates Caution should be taken when darifenacin extended - release tablets are used concomitantly with medications that are predominantly metabolized by CYP2D6 and which have a narrow therapeutic window ( for example , flecainide , thioridazine and tricyclic antidepressants ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 CYP3A4 Substrates Darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) did not have a significant impact on midazolam ( 7 . 5 mg ) pharmacokinetics [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Combination oral contraceptives Darifenacin ( 10 mg three times daily ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of the combination oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 6 Warfarin Darifenacin had no significant effect on prothrombin time when a single dose of warfarin 30 mg was co - administered with darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) at steady - state .
Standard therapeutic prothrombin time monitoring for warfarin should be continued .
7 . 7 Digoxin Darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin ( 0 . 25 mg ) at steady - state .
Routine therapeutic drug monitoring for digoxin should be continued [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 8 Other Anticholinergic Agents The concomitant use of darifenacin extended - release tablets with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to effects on gastrointestinal motility .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus ( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether darifenacin is excreted into human milk and therefore caution should be exercised before darifenacin extended - release tablets are administered to a nursing woman ( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of darifenacin extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established ( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on darifenacin extended - release tablets use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , darifenacin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at plasma exposures of free drug ( via AUC ) up to 59 and 28 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 15 mg , respectively .
Effects on embryofetal development were observed following administration of darifenacin during pregnancy ( dilated ureter and / or kidney pelvis in rabbits at about 9 times the MRHD , post - implantation loss in rabbits at about 28 times , and delayed ossification in rats at about 59 times ) and during pregnancy and lactation ( developmental delays in rats at about 17 times the MRHD ) , which was associated with maternal toxicity ( see Data ) .
Dystocia was observed in rat dams at about 17 times the MRHD .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal development studies were conducted with oral darifenacin in female rats ( 0 , 3 , 10 , and 50 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( 0 , 3 , 10 , and 30 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis ( gestation days 6 to 17 in the rat and gestation days 6 to 18 in the rabbit ) .
Darifenacin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at plasma exposures of free drug ( via AUC ) up to 59 times and 28 times , respectively ( doses up to 50 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively ) the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 15 mg .
At approximately 59 times the MRHD in pregnant rats , there was a delay in the ossification of the sacral and caudal vertebrae ( associated with a decrease in maternal and pup body weight gains ) which was not observed at an exposure approximately 13 times the AUC at the MRHD .
At five times the AUC ( 3 mg / kg / day ) , there were no effects on dams or pups .
In pregnant rabbits , an exposure of darifenacin approximately 28 times the AUC at the MRHD of 15 mg ( 30 mg / kg / day ) was shown to increase post - implantation loss ( associated with decreased maternal body weight gain ) , with a no effect level at 10 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the AUC at the MRHD ) .
Dilated ureter and / or kidney pelvis was also observed in offspring at this highest dose along with urinary bladder dilation consistent with the pharmacological action of darifenacin , with one case observed at the mid dose of 10 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD ) .
No effect was observed at the lowest dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( ( approximately 2 . 8 times the AUC at the MRHD ) .
A pre - and post - natal development study was conducted with oral darifenacin in female rats ( 0 , 3 , 10 , and 50 mg / kg / day ) throughout gestation and lactation .
Decreased body weight gain and dystocia were observed in dams at 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 17 times the MRHD ) and above .
Slight developmental delays ( surface righting reflex , incisor eruption , eyelid opening , vaginal opening , preputial separation ) were observed in pups at these doses .
At 5 times the AUC at the MRHD ( 3 mg / kg / day ) , there were no effects on dams or pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of darifenacin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of darifenacin extended - release tablets on milk production .
Darifenacin is present in rat milk [ see Data ] .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for darifenacin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from darifenacin or from the underlying maternal conditions .
Data After a single oral dose of 14 C radiolabeled darifenacin to lactating rats , darifenacin was detected in maternal milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of darifenacin extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the fixed - dose , placebo - controlled , clinical studies , 30 % of patients treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets were over 65 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between patients over 65 years ( n = 207 ) and younger patients less than 65 years ( n = 464 ) .
No dose adjustment is recommended for elderly patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have not been studied , therefore darifenacin extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
The daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets should not exceed 7 . 5 mg once daily for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
After adjusting for plasma protein binding , unbound darifenacin exposure was estimated to be 4 . 7 - fold higher in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment than subjects with normal hepatic function .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment A study of subjects with varying degrees of renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 10 and 136 mL / min ) demonstrated no clear relationship between renal function and darifenacin clearance .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Gender No dose adjustment is recommended based on gender [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with antimuscarinic agents , including darifenacin extended - release tablets , can result in severe antimuscarinic effects .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
In the event of overdosage , ECG monitoring is recommended .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets have been administered in clinical trials at doses up to 75 mg ( five times the maximum therapeutic dose ) and signs of overdose were limited to abnormal vision .
11 DESCRIPTION Darifenacin is an extended - release tablet for oral administration which contains 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg darifenacin as its hydrobromide salt .
The active moiety , darifenacin , is a potent muscarinic receptor antagonist .
Chemically , darifenacin hydrobromide is ( S ) - 2 - { 1 - [ 2 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydrobenzofuran - 5 - yl ) ethyl ] - 3 - pyrrolidinyl } - 2 , 2 - diphenylacetamide hydrobromide .
The molecular formula of darifenacin hydrobromide is C28H30N2O2 • HBr .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Darifenacin hydrobromide is a white to off - white powder , with a molecular weight of 507 . 5 .
Darifenacin is a once - a - day extended - release tablet and contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , ethyl cellulose , hydroxy ethyl cellulose , hydroxy propyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , povidone , talc , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 15 mg tablet also contains red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Darifenacin is a competitive muscarinic receptor antagonist .
Muscarinic receptors play a role in cholinergically mediated functions , including contractions of the urinary bladder smooth muscle .
In vitro studies using human recombinant muscarinic receptor subtypes show that darifenacin has greater affinity for the M3 receptor than for the other known muscarinic receptors ( 9 - and 12 - fold greater affinity for M3 compared to M1 and M5 , respectively , and 59 - fold greater affinity for M3 compared to both M2 and M4 ) .
M3 receptors are involved in contraction of human bladder .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In three cystometric studies performed in patients with involuntary detrusor contractions , increased bladder capacity was demonstrated by an increased volume threshold for unstable contractions and diminished frequency of unstable detrusor contractions after darifenacin extended - release tablets treatment .
These findings are consistent with an antimuscarinic action on the urinary bladder .
Electrophysiology The effect of a six - day treatment of 15 mg and 75 mg darifenacin extended - release tablets on QT / QTc interval was evaluated in a multiple - dose , double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) parallel - arm design study in 179 healthy adults ( 44 % male , 56 % female ) aged 18 to 65 .
Subjects included 18 % poor metabolizers ( PMs ) and 82 % extensive metabolizers ( EMs ) .
The QT interval was measured over a 24 - hour period both predosing and at steady - state .
The 75 mg darifenacin extended - release tablets dose was chosen because this achieves exposure similar to that observed in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers administered the highest recommended dose ( 15 mg ) of darifenacin in the presence of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor .
At the doses studied , darifenacin extended - release tablets did not result in QT / QTc interval prolongation at any time during the steady - state , while moxifloxacin treatment resulted in a mean increase from baseline QTcF of about 7 msec when compared to placebo .
In this study , darifenacin 15 mg and 75 mg doses demonstrated a mean heart rate change of 3 . 1 and 1 . 3 bpm , respectively , when compared to placebo .
However , in the clinical efficacy and safety studies , the change in median HR following treatment with darifenacin extended - release tablets was no different from placebo .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration of darifenacin extended - release tablets to healthy volunteers , peak plasma concentrations of darifenacin are reached approximately seven hours after multiple dosing and steady - state plasma concentrations are achieved by the sixth day of dosing .
The mean ( SD ) steady - state time course of darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg is depicted in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 Mean ( SD ) Steady - State Darifenacin Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles for Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg in Healthy Volunteers Including Both CYP2D6 EMs and PMs * [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Includes 95 EMs and 6 PMs for 7 . 5 mg ; 104 EMs and 10 PMs for 15 mg .
A summary of mean ( standard deviation , SD ) steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg in EMs and PMs of CYP2D6 is provided in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean ( SD ) Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameters from Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg Based on Pooled Data by Predicted CYP2D6 Phenotype Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg ( N = 68 EM , 5 PM ) Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 15 mg ( N = 102 EM , 17 PM ) AUC24 ( ng • h / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Cavg ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( h ) t1 / 2 ( h ) AUC24 ( ng • h / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Cavg ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( h ) t1 / 2 ( h ) EM 29 . 24 ( 15 . 47 ) 2 . 01 ( 1 . 04 ) 1 . 22 ( 0 . 64 ) 6 . 49 ( 4 . 19 ) 12 . 43 ( 5 . 64 ) a 88 . 9 ( 67 . 87 ) 5 . 76 ( 4 . 24 ) 3 . 7 ( 2 . 83 ) 7 . 61 ( 5 . 06 ) 12 . 05 ( 12 . 37 ) b PM 67 . 56 ( 13 . 13 ) 4 . 27 ( 0 . 98 ) 2 . 81 ( 0 . 55 ) 5 . 2 ( 1 . 79 ) 19 . 95 c - 157 . 71 ( 77 . 08 ) 9 . 99 ( 5 . 09 ) 6 . 58 ( 3 . 22 ) 6 . 71 ( 3 . 58 ) 7 . 4 d - aN = 25 ; bN = 8 ; cN = 2 ; dN = 1 ; AUC24 = Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve for 24 h ; Cmax = Maximum observed plasma concentration ; Cavg = Average plasma concentration at steady - state ; Tmax = Time of occurrence of Cmax ; t1 / 2 = Terminal elimination half - life .
Regarding EM and PM [ see Clinical Pharmacology , Pharmacokinetics , Variability in Metabolism ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The mean oral bioavailability of darifenacin extended - release tablets in EMs at steady - state is estimated to be 15 % and 19 % for 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg tablets , respectively .
Effect of Food Following single dose administration of darifenacin extended - release tablets with food , the AUC of darifenacin was not affected , while the Cmax was increased by 22 % and Tmax was shortened by 3 . 3 hours .
There is no effect of food on multiple - dose pharmacokinetics from darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Distribution Darifenacin is approximately 98 % bound to plasma proteins ( primarily to alpha - 1 - acid - glycoprotein ) .
The steady - state volume of distribution ( Vss ) is estimated to be 163 L . Metabolism Darifenacin is extensively metabolized by the liver following oral dosing .
Metabolism is mediated by cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 .
The three main metabolic routes are as follows : ( i ) monohydroxylation in the dihydrobenzofuran ring ; ( ii ) dihydrobenzofuran ring opening ; ( iii ) N - dealkylation of the pyrrolidine nitrogen .
The initial products of the hydroxylation and N - dealkylation pathways are the major circulating metabolites but they are unlikely to contribute significantly to the overall clinical effect of darifenacin .
Variability in Metabolism A subset of individuals ( approximately 7 % Caucasians and 2 % African Americans ) are poor metabolizers ( PMs ) of CYP2D6 metabolized drugs .
Individuals with normal CYP2D6 activity are referred to as extensive metabolizers ( EMs ) .
The metabolism of darifenacin in PMs will be principally mediated via CYP3A4 .
The darifenacin ratios ( PM versus EM ) for Cmax and AUC following darifenacin 15 mg once daily at steady - state were 1 . 9 and 1 . 7 , respectively .
Excretion Following administration of an oral dose of 14 C - darifenacin solution to healthy volunteers , approximately 60 % of the radioactivity was recovered in the urine and 40 % in the feces .
Only a small percentage of the excreted dose was unchanged darifenacin ( 3 % ) .
Estimated darifenacin clearance is 40 L / h for EMs and 32 L / h for PMs .
The elimination half - life of darifenacin following chronic dosing is approximately 13 to 19 hours .
Drug - Drug Interactions Effects of Other Drugs on Darifenacin Darifenacin metabolism is primarily mediated by the cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 .
Therefore , inducers of CYP3A4 or inhibitors of either of these enzymes may alter darifenacin pharmacokinetics [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors : In a drug interaction study , when a 7 . 5 mg once daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets was given to steady - state and co - administered with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole 400 mg , mean darifenacin Cmax increased to 11 . 2 ng / mL for EMs ( n = 10 ) and 55 . 4 ng / mL for one PM subject ( n = 1 ) .
Mean AUC increased to 143 and 939 ng • h / mL for EMs and for one PM subject , respectively .
When a 15 mg daily dose of darifenacin extended - release tablets was given with ketoconazole , mean darifenacin Cmax increased to 67 . 6 ng / mL and 58 . 9 ng / mL for EMs ( n = 3 ) and one PM subject ( n = 1 ) , respectively .
Mean AUC increased to 1110 and 931 ng • h / mL for EMs and for one PM subject , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The mean Cmax and AUC of darifenacin following 30 mg once daily dosing at steady - state were 128 % and 95 % higher , respectively , in the presence of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor , erythromycin .
Co - administration of fluconazole , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and darifenacin 30 mg once daily at steady - state increased darifenacin Cmax and AUC by 88 % and 84 % , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The mean Cmax and AUC of darifenacin following 30 mg once daily at steady - state were 42 % and 34 % higher , respectively , in the presence of cimetidine , a mixed CYP P450 enzyme inhibitor .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors : Darifenacin exposure following 30 mg once daily at steady - state was 33 % higher in the presence of the potent CYP2D6 inhibitor paroxetine 20 mg [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Effects of Darifenacin on Other Drugs In Vitro Studies : Based on in vitro human microsomal studies , darifenacin extended - release tablets are not expected to inhibit CYP1A2 or CYP2C9 at clinically relevant concentrations .
In Vivo Studies : The potential for clinical doses of darifenacin extended - release tablets to act as inhibitors of CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 substrates was investigated in specific drug interaction studies .
CYP2D6 Substrates : The mean Cmax and AUC of imipramine , a CYP2D6 substrate , were increased by 57 % and 70 % , respectively , in the presence of steady - state darifenacin 30 mg once daily .
The mean Cmax and AUC of desipramine , the active metabolite of imipramine , were increased by 260 % [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Substrates : Darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) co - administered with a single oral dose of midazolam 7 . 5 mg resulted in a 17 % increase in midazolam exposure .
Combination Oral Contraceptives : Darifenacin ( 10 mg three times daily ) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of a combination oral contraceptive containing levonorgestrel ( 0 . 15 mg ) and ethinyl estradiol ( 0 . 03 mg ) .
Warfarin : Darifenacin had no significant effect on prothrombin time when a single dose of warfarin 30 mg was co - administered with darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) at steady - state [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
Digoxin : Darifenacin ( 30 mg daily ) co - administered with digoxin ( 0 . 25 mg ) at steady - state resulted in a 16 % increase in digoxin exposure [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Age : A population pharmacokinetic analysis of patient data indicated a trend for clearance of darifenacin to decrease with age ( 6 % per decade relative to a median age of 44 ) .
Following administration of darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg once daily , darifenacin exposure at steady - state was approximately 12 % to 19 % higher in volunteers between 45 and 65 years of age compared to younger volunteers aged 18 to 44 years [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of darifenacin extended - release tablets has not been studied in the pediatric population [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Gender : PK parameters were calculated for 22 male and 25 female healthy volunteers .
Darifenacin Cmax and AUC at steady - state were approximately 57 % to 79 % and 61 % to 73 % higher in females than in males , respectively [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : A study of subjects with varying degrees of renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 10 and 136 mL / min ) given darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg once daily to steady - state demonstrated no clear relationship between renal function and darifenacin clearance [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : Darifenacin extended - release tablets pharmacokinetics were investigated in subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh A ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) impairment of hepatic function given darifenacin extended - release tablets 15 mg once daily to steady - state .
Mild hepatic impairment had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of darifenacin .
However , protein binding of darifenacin was affected by moderate hepatic impairment .
After adjusting for plasma protein binding , unbound darifenacin exposure was estimated to be 4 . 7 - fold higher in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment than subjects with normal hepatic function .
Subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) have not been studied [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies with darifenacin were conducted in mice and rats .
No evidence of drug - related carcinogenicity was revealed in a 24 - month study in mice at dietary doses up to 100 mg / kg / day or approximately 32 times the estimated free plasma AUC reached at the maximum recommended human dose ( the AUC at the MRHD ) of 15 mg and in a 24 - month study in rats at doses up to 15 mg / kg / day or up to approximately 12 times the AUC at the MRHD in female rats and approximately eight times the AUC at the MRHD in male rats .
Mutagenesis Darifenacin was not genotoxic in the bacterial mutation assay ( Ames test ) , the Chinese hamster ovary assay , the human lymphocyte assay , or the in vivo mouse bone marrow cytogenetics assay .
Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence for effects on fertility in male or female rats treated at oral doses associated with up to approximately 78 times ( 50 mg / kg / day ) the AUC at the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Darifenacin extended - release tablets were evaluated for the treatment of patients with overactive bladder with symptoms of urgency , urge urinary incontinence , and increased urinary frequency in three randomized , fixed - dose , placebo - controlled , multicenter , double - blind , 12 - week studies ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) and one randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter , dose - titration study ( Study 4 ) .
For study eligibility in all four studies , patients with symptoms of overactive bladder for at least six months were required to demonstrate at least eight micturitions and at least one episode of urinary urgency per day , and at least five episodes of urge urinary incontinence per week .
The majority of patients were white ( 94 % ) and female ( 84 % ) , with a mean age of 58 years , range 19 to 93 years .
Thirty - three percent of patients were greater than or equal to 65 years of age .
These characteristics were well balanced across treatment groups .
The study population was inclusive of both naïve patients who had not received prior pharmacotherapy for overactive bladder ( 60 % ) and those who had ( 40 % ) .
Table 4 shows the efficacy data collected from 7 - or 14 - day voiding diaries in the three fixed - dose placebo - controlled studies of 1 , 059 patients treated with placebo , 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg once daily darifenacin extended - release tablets for 12 weeks .
A significant decrease in the primary endpoint , change from baseline in average weekly urge urinary incontinence episodes was observed in all three studies .
Data is also shown for two secondary endpoints , change from baseline in the average number of micturitions per day ( urinary frequency ) and change from baseline in the average volume voided per micturition .
Table 4 : Difference Between Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets ( 7 . 5 mg , 15 mg ) and Placebo for the Week 12 Change from Baseline ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) Study 1 Study 2 Study 3 Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 15 mg Placebo Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 15 mg Placebo Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 15 mg Placebo No .
of Patients Entered 229 115 164 108 107 109 112 115 Urge Incontinence Episodes per Week Median Baseline 16 . 3 17 16 . 6 14 17 . 3 16 . 1 16 . 2 15 . 5 Median Change from Baseline - 9 - 10 . 4 - 7 . 6 - 8 . 1 - 10 . 4 - 5 . 9 - 11 . 4 - 9 Median Difference to Placebo - 1 . 5 * - 2 . 1 * - - 2 . 8 * - 4 . 3 * - - 2 . 4 * - Micturitions per Day Median Baseline 10 . 1 10 . 1 10 . 1 10 . 3 11 10 . 1 10 . 5 10 . 4 Median Change from Baseline - 1 . 6 - 1 . 7 - 0 . 8 - 1 . 7 - 1 . 9 - 1 . 1 - 1 . 9 - 1 . 2 Median Difference to Placebo - 0 . 8 * - 0 . 9 * - - 0 . 5 - 0 . 7 * - - 0 . 5 - Volume of Urine Passed per Void ( mL ) Median Baseline 160 . 2 151 . 8 162 . 4 161 . 7 157 . 3 162 . 2 155 147 . 1 Median Change from Baseline 14 . 9 30 . 9 7 . 6 16 . 8 23 . 6 7 . 1 26 . 7 4 . 6 Median Difference to Placebo 9 . 1 * 20 . 7 * - 9 . 2 16 . 6 * - 20 . 1 * - * Indicates statistically significant difference versus placebo ( p less than 0 . 05 , Wilcoxon rank - sum test ) Table 5 shows the efficacy data from the dose - titration study in 395 patients who initially received 7 . 5 mg darifenacin extended - release tablets or placebo daily with the option to increase to 15 mg darifenacin extended - release tablets or placebo daily after two weeks .
Table 5 : Difference between Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets ( 7 . 5 mg / 15 mg ) and Placebo for the Week 12 Change from Baseline ( Study 4 ) Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets 7 . 5 mg / 15 mg Placebo No .
of Patients Treated 268 127 Urge Incontinence Episodes per Week Median Baseline 16 14 Median Change from Baseline - 8 . 2 - 6 Median Difference to Placebo - 1 . 4 * - Micturitions per Day Median Baseline 9 . 9 10 . 4 Median Change from Baseline - 1 . 9 - 1 Median Difference to Placebo - 0 . 8 * - Volume of Urine Passed per Void ( mL ) Median Baseline 173 . 7 177 . 2 Median Change from Baseline 18 . 8 6 . 6 Median Difference to Placebo 13 . 3 * - * Indicates statistically significant difference versus placebo ( p less than 0 . 05 , Wilcoxon rank - sum test ) As seen in Figures 2 a , 2 b and 2 c , reductions in the number of urge incontinence episodes per week were observed within the first two weeks in patients treated with darifenacin extended - release tablets 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg once daily compared to placebo .
Further , these effects were sustained throughout the 12 - week treatment period .
Figures 2 a , 2 b , 2 c .
Median Change from Baseline at Weeks 2 , 6 , 12 for Number of Urge Incontinence Episodes per Week ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets , 7 . 5 mg are white colored , round convex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ Z ” on one side and “ 22 ” on other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 65862 - 861 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 65862 - 861 - 90 Bottles of 500 NDC 65862 - 861 - 05 Bottles of 1 , 000 NDC 65862 - 861 - 99 Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets , 15 mg are light peach colored , round convex , film - coated tablets debossed with “ Z ” on one side and “ 23 ” on other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 65862 - 862 - 30 Bottles of 90 NDC 65862 - 862 - 90 Bottles of 500 NDC 65862 - 862 - 05 Bottles of 1 , 000 NDC 65862 - 862 - 99 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Patients should be informed that anticholinergic agents , such as darifenacin extended - release tablets , may produce clinically significant adverse effects related to anticholinergic pharmacological activity including constipation , urinary retention and blurred vision .
Heat prostration ( due to decreased sweating ) can occur when anticholinergics such as darifenacin extended - release tablets are used in a hot environment .
Because anticholinergics , such as darifenacin extended - release tablets , may produce dizziness or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until the drug ’ s effects have been determined .
Patients should read the patient information leaflet before starting therapy with darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Patients should be informed that darifenacin may produce clinically significant angioedema that may result in airway obstruction .
Patients should be advised to promptly discontinue darifenacin therapy and seek immediate medical attention if they experience edema of the tongue or laryngopharynx , or difficulty breathing .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be taken once daily with water .
They may be taken with or without food , and should be swallowed whole and not chewed , divided or crushed .
FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Patient Information Darifenacin Extended - Release Tablets [ Darifenacin ( dar e FEN a sin ) ] Read this Patient Information leaflet about darifenacin extended - release tablets before you start taking them and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Darifenacin extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine for adults used to treat the following symptoms due to a condition called overactive bladder : • Urge urinary incontinence : a strong need to urinate with leaking or wetting accidents • Urgency : a strong need to urinate right away • Frequency : urinating often It is unknown if darifenacin extended - release tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Do not take darifenacin extended - release tablets if you : • are not able to empty your bladder ( “ urinary retention ” ) • have delayed or slow emptying of your stomach ( “ gastric retention ” ) • have an eye problem called “ uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ” What should I tell my healthcare provider before starting darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Before starting darifenacin extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have trouble emptying your bladder or if you have a weak urine stream • have any stomach or intestinal problems , or problems with constipation • have liver problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if darifenacin extended - release tablets can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if darifenacin passes into breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Darifenacin extended - release tablets and certain other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take a : • antifungal medicine ketoconazole ( Nizoral ® ) or itraconazole ( Sporanox ® ) • antibiotic medicine clarithromycin ( Biaxin ® ) • anti - HIV medicine ritonavir ( Norvir ® ) or nelfinavir ( Viracept ® ) • medicine to treat depression nefazadone ( Serzone ® ) • medicine to treat an abnormal heartbeat flecainide ( Tambocor ™ ) • antipsychotic medicine thioridazine ( Mellaril ® ) • medicine to treat depression called a tricyclic antidepressant Know all the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
• Take darifenacin extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed .
Your doctor will prescribe the dose that is right for you .
Take darifenacin extended - release tablets 1 time daily with water .
• Darifenacin extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not chew , cut or crush darifenacin extended - release tablet .
• Darifenacin extended - release tablets may be taken with or without food .
• If you take too much darifenacin call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Darifenacin extended - release tablets can cause blurred vision or dizziness .
Do not drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how darifenacin extended - release tablets affect you .
What are the possible side effects of darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Darifenacin extended - release tablets may cause serious side effects including : • Serious allergic reaction .
Stop taking darifenacin extended - release tablets and get medical help right away if you have : • hives , skin rash or swelling • severe itching • swelling of your face , mouth or tongue • trouble breathing The most common side effects with darifenacin extended - release tablets are : • constipation • dry mouth • headache • heartburn • nausea • urinary tract infection • blurred vision • heat exhaustion or heat - stroke .
This can happen when darifenacin extended - release tablets are used in hot environments .
Symptoms of heat exhaustion may include : • decreased sweating • dizziness • tiredness • nausea • increase body temperature Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of darifenacin extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
• Store darifenacin extended - release tablets at room temperature , between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Keep darifenacin extended - release tablets out of the light .
Keep darifenacin extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about darifenacin extended - release tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use darifenacin extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give darifenacin extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
They may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about darifenacin extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about darifenacin extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in darifenacin extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : darifenacin hydrobromide Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , ethyl cellulose , hydroxy ethyl cellulose , hydroxy propyl cellulose , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , povidone , talc , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 15 mg tablet also contains red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
The brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Aurobindo Pharma Limited .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 09 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 7 . 5 mg ( 30 Tablet Bottle ) NDC 65862 - 861 - 30 Rx only Darifenacin Extended - release Tablets 7 . 5 mg AUROBINDO 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mg ( 30 Tablet Bottle ) NDC 65862 - 862 - 30 Rx only Darifenacin Extended - release Tablets 15 mg AUROBINDO 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
