Fliptop Vials For subcutaneous , intramuscular or intravenous administration .
DESCRIPTION Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP , is an iron - chelating agent , available in vials for intramuscular , subcutaneous , and intravenous administration .
Deferoxamine mesylate is supplied as vials containing 500 mg and 2 g of deferoxamine mesylate USP in sterile , lyophilized form .
Deferoxamine mesylate is N - [ 5 - [ 3 - [ ( 5 - aminopentyl ) hydroxycarbamoyl ] propionamido ] pentyl ] - 3 - [ [ 5 - ( N - hydroxyacetamido ) pentyl ] carbamoyl ] propionohydroxamic acid monomethanesulfonate ( salt ) , and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Deferoxamine mesylate USP is a white to off - white powder .
It is freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol .
Its molecular weight is 656 . 79 g / mol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Deferoxamine mesylate chelates iron by forming a stable complex that prevents the iron from entering into further chemical reactions .
It readily chelates iron from ferritin and hemosiderin but not readily from transferrin ; it does not combine with the iron from cytochromes and hemoglobin .
Deferoxamine mesylate does not cause any demonstrable increase in the excretion of electrolytes or trace metals .
Theoretically , 100 parts by weight of deferoxamine mesylate is capable of binding approximately 8 . 5 parts by weight of ferric iron .
Deferoxamine mesylate is metabolized principally by plasma enzymes , but the pathways have not yet been defined .
The chelate is readily soluble in water and passes easily through the kidney , giving the urine a characteristic reddish color .
Some is also excreted in the feces via the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of acute iron intoxication and of chronic iron overload due to transfusion - dependent anemias .
Acute Iron Intoxication Deferoxamine mesylate is an adjunct to , and not a substitute for , standard measures used in treating acute iron intoxication , which may include the following : induction of emesis with syrup of ipecac ; gastric lavage ; suction and maintenance of a clear airway ; control of shock with intravenous fluids , blood , oxygen , and vasopressors ; and correction of acidosis .
Chronic Iron Overload Deferoxamine mesylate can promote iron excretion in patients with secondary iron overload from multiple transfusions ( as may occur in the treatment of some chronic anemias , including thalassemia ) .
Long - term therapy with deferoxamine mesylate slows accumulation of hepatic iron and retards or eliminates progression of hepatic fibrosis .
Iron mobilization with deferoxamine mesylate is relatively poor in patients under the age of 3 years with relatively little iron overload .
The drug should ordinarily not be given to such patients unless significant iron mobilization ( e . g . , 1 mg or more of iron per day ) can be demonstrated .
Deferoxamine mesylate is not indicated for the treatment of primary hemochromatosis , since phlebotomy is the method of choice for removing excess iron in this disorder .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to the active substance .
Deferoxamine mesylate is contraindicated in patients with severe renal disease or anuria , since the drug and the iron chelate are excreted primarily by the kidney ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Ocular and auditory disturbances have been reported when deferoxamine mesylate was administered over prolonged periods of time , at high doses , or in patients with low ferritin levels .
The ocular disturbances observed have been blurring of vision ; cataracts after prolonged administration in chronic iron overload ; decreased visual acuity including visual loss , visual defects , scotoma ; impaired peripheral , color , and night vision ; optic neuritis , cataracts , corneal opacities , and retinal pigmentary abnormalities .
The auditory abnormalities reported have been tinnitus and hearing loss including high frequency sensorineural hearing loss .
In most cases , both ocular and auditory disturbances were reversible upon immediate cessation of treatment ( see PRECAUTIONS / Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS / Special Senses ) .
Visual acuity tests , slit - lamp examinations , funduscopy and audiometry are recommended periodically in patients treated for prolonged periods of time .
Toxicity is more likely to be reversed if symptoms or test abnormalities are detected early .
Increases in serum creatinine ( possibly dose - related ) , acute renal failure and renal tubular disorders , associated with the administration of deferoxamine , have been reported in postmarketing experience ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Monitor patients for changes in renal function .
High doses of deferoxamine mesylate and concomitant low ferritin levels have also been associated with growth retardation .
After reduction of deferoxamine mesylate dose , growth velocity may partially resume to pre - treatment rates ( see PRECAUTIONS / Pediatric Use ) .
Adult respiratory distress syndrome , also reported in children , has been described following treatment with excessively high intravenous doses of deferoxamine mesylate in patients with acute iron intoxication or thalassemia .
PRECAUTIONS General Flushing of the skin , urticaria , hypotension , and shock has occurred in a few patients when deferoxamine mesylate was administered by rapid intravenous injection .
THEREFORE , DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE SHOULD BE GIVEN INTRAMUSCULARLY OR BY SLOW SUBCUTANEOUS OR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION .
Iron overload increases susceptibility of patients to Yersinia enterocolitica and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis infections .
In some rare cases , treatment with deferoxamine mesylate has enhanced this susceptibility , resulting in generalized infections by providing these bacteria with a siderophore otherwise missing .
In such cases , deferoxamine mesylate treatment should be discontinued until the infection is resolved .
In patients receiving deferoxamine mesylate , rare cases of mucormycosis , some with a fatal outcome , have been reported .
If any of the suspected signs or symptoms occur , deferoxamine mesylate should be discontinued , mycological tests carried out and appropriate treatment instituted immediately .
In patients with severe chronic iron overload , impairment of cardiac function has been reported following concomitant treatment with deferoxamine mesylate and high doses of vitamin C ( more than 500 mg daily in adults ) .
The cardiac dysfunction was reversible when vitamin C was discontinued .
The following precautions should be taken when vitamin C and deferoxamine mesylate are to be used concomitantly : • • Vitamin C supplements should not be given to patients with cardiac failure .
• • Start supplemental vitamin C only after an initial month of regular treatment with deferoxamine mesylate .
• • Give vitamin C only if the patient is receiving deferoxamine mesylate regularly , ideally soon after setting up the infusion pump .
• • Do not exceed a daily vitamin C dose of 200 mg in adults , given in divided doses .
• • Clinical monitoring of cardiac function is advisable during such combined therapy .
In patients with aluminum - related encephalopathy and receiving dialysis , deferoxamine mesylate may cause neurological dysfunction ( seizures ) , possibly due to an acute increase in circulating aluminum ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Deferoxamine mesylate may precipitate the onset of dialysis dementia .
Treatment with deferoxamine mesylate in the presence of aluminum overload may result in decreased serum calcium and aggravation of hyperparathyroidism .
Drug Interactions Vitamin C : Patients with iron overload usually become vitamin C deficient , probably because iron oxidizes the vitamin .
As an adjuvant to iron chelation therapy , vitamin C in doses up to 200 mg for adults may be given in divided doses , starting after an initial month of regular treatment with deferoxamine mesylate ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Vitamin C increases availability of iron for chelation .
In general , 50 mg daily suffices for children under 10 years old and 100 mg daily for older children .
Larger doses of vitamin C fail to produce any additional increase in excretion of iron complex .
Prochlorperazine : Concurrent treatment with deferoxamine mesylate and prochlorperazine , a phenothiazine derivative , may lead to temporary impairment of consciousness .
Gallium - 67 : Imaging results may be distorted because of the rapid urinary excretion of deferoxamine mesylate - bound gallium - 67 .
Discontinuation of deferoxamine mesylate 48 hours prior to scintigraphy is advisable .
Information for Patients Patients experiencing dizziness or other nervous system disturbances , or impairment of vision or hearing , should refrain from driving or operating potentially hazardous machines ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients should be informed that occasionally their urine may show a reddish discoloration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed with deferoxamine mesylate .
Cytotoxicity may occur , since deferoxamine mesylate has been shown to inhibit DNA synthesis in vitro .
Delayed ossification in mice and skeletal anomalies in rabbits were observed after deferoxamine mesylate was administered in daily doses up to 4 . 5 times the maximum daily human dose .
No adverse effects were observed in similar studies in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Deferoxamine mesylate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when deferoxamine mesylate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients receiving deferoxamine mesylate should be monitored for body weight and growth every 3 months .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 3 years have not been established ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS / Drug Interactions / Vitamin C , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical Studies of deferoxamine mesylate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from the younger subjects .
Postmarketing reports suggest a possible trend for an increased risk of eye disorders in the geriatric population , specifically the occurrence of color blindness , maculopathy , and scotoma .
However , it is unclear if these eye disorders were dose related .
Although the number of reports was very small , certain elderly patients may be predisposed to eye disorders when taking deferoxamine mesylate .
Postmarketing reports also suggest that there may be an increased risk of deafness and hearing loss in the geriatric population ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Hepatic Impairment No studies have been performed in patients with hepatic impairment .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed , but there are not enough data to support an estimate of their frequency .
At the Injection Site : Localized irritation , pain , burning , swelling , induration , infiltration , pruritus , erythema , wheal formation , eschar , crust , vesicles , local edema .
Injection site reactions may be associated with systemic allergic reactions ( see Body as a Whole , below ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions and Systemic Allergic Reactions : Generalized rash , urticaria , anaphylactic reaction with or without shock , angioedema .
Body as a Whole : Local injection site reactions may be accompanied by systemic reactions like arthralgia , fever , headache , myalgia , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , or asthma .
Infections with Yersinia and Mucormycosis have been reported in association with deferoxamine mesylate use ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , hypotension , shock .
Digestive : Abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting .
Hematologic : Blood dyscrasia ( thrombocytopenia , leukopenia ) .
Hepatic : Increased transaminases , hepatic dysfunction .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasms .
Growth retardation and bone changes ( e . g . , metaphyseal dysplasia ) are common in chelated patients given doses above 60 mg / kg , especially those who begin iron chelation in the first three years of life .
If doses are kept to 40 mg / kg or below , the risk may be reduced ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS / Pediatric Use ) .
Nervous System : Neurological disturbances including dizziness , peripheral sensory , motor , or mixed neuropathy , paresthesias , seizures ; exacerbation or precipitation of aluminum - related dialysis encephalopathy ( see PRECAUTIONS / Information for Patients ) .
Special Senses : High - frequency sensorineural hearing loss and / or tinnitus are uncommon if dosage guidelines are not exceeded and if dose is reduced when ferritin levels decline .
Visual disturbances are rare if dosage guidelines are not exceeded .
These may include decreased acuity , blurred vision , loss of vision , dyschromatopsia , night blindness , visual field defects , scotoma , retinopathy ( pigmentary degeneration ) , optic neuritis , and cataracts ( see WARNINGS ) .
Respiratory : Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( with dyspnea , cyanosis , and / or interstitial infiltrates ) ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : Very rare generalized rash .
Urogenital : Dysuria , acute renal failure , increased serum creatinine and renal tubular disorders ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Postmarketing Reports There are postmarketing reports of deferoxamine - associated renal dysfunction , including renal failure .
Monitor patients for changes in renal function ( e . g . , increased serum creatinine ) .
OVERDOSAGE Acute Toxicity Intravenous LD50s ( mg / kg ) : mice , 287 ; rats , 329 .
Signs and Symptoms Inadvertent administration of an overdose or inadvertent intravenous bolus administration / rapid intravenous infusion may be associated with hypotension , tachycardia and gastrointestinal disturbances ; acute but transient loss of vision , aphasia , agitation , headache , nausea , pallor , CNS depression including coma , bradycardia and acute renal failure have been reported .
Acute respiratory distress syndrome has been reported following treatment with excessively high intravenous doses of Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP in patients with acute iron intoxication and in patients with thalassemia .
Treatment There is no specific antidote .
Deferoxamine mesylate should be discontinued and appropriate symptomatic measures undertaken .
Deferoxamine mesylate is readily dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Iron Intoxication Intramuscular Administration This route is preferred and should be used for ALL PATIENTS NOT IN SHOCK .
A dose of 1 , 000 mg should be administered initially .
This may be followed by 500 mg every 4 hours for two doses .
Depending upon the clinical response , subsequent doses of 500 mg may be administered every 4 to 12 hours .
The total amount administered should not exceed 6 , 000 mg in 24 hours .
For reconstitution instructions for intramuscular administration see Table 1 .
Intravenous Administration THIS ROUTE SHOULD BE USED ONLY FOR PATIENTS IN A STATE OF CARDIOVASCULAR COLLAPSE AND THEN ONLY BY SLOW INFUSION .
THE RATE OF INFUSION SHOULD NOT EXCEED 15 MG / KG / HR FOR THE FIRST 1 , 000 MG ADMINISTERED .
SUBSEQUENT IV DOSING , IF NEEDED , MUST BE AT A SLOWER RATE , NOT TO EXCEED 125 MG / HR .
For reconstitution instructions for intravenous administration see Table 2 .
The reconstituted solution is added to physiologic saline , ( e . g . , 0 . 9 % sodium chloride , 0 . 45 % sodium chloride ) , glucose in water , or Ringer ' s lactate solution .
An initial dose of 1 , 000 mg should be administered at a rate NOT TO EXCEED 15 mg / kg / hr .
This may be followed by 500 mg over 4 hours for two doses .
Depending upon the clinical response , subsequent doses of 500 mg may be administered over 4 to 12 hours .
The total amount administered should not exceed 6 , 000 mg in 24 hours .
As soon as the clinical condition of the patient permits , intravenous administration should be discontinued and the drug should be administered intramuscularly .
Chronic Iron Overload Subcutaneous Administration A daily dose of 1 , 000 to 2 , 000 mg ( 20 to 40 mg / kg / day ) should be administered over 8 to 24 hours , utilizing a small portable pump capable of providing continuous mini - infusion .
The duration of infusion must be individualized .
In some patients , as much iron will be excreted after a short infusion of 8 to 12 hours as with the same dose given over 24 hours .
For reconstitution instructions for subcutaneous administration see Table 3 .
Intravenous Administration The standard recommended method of Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP administration is via slow subcutaneous infusion over 8 to 12 hours .
In patients with intravenous access , the daily dose of Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP can be administered intravenously .
The standard dose is 20 to 40 mg / kg / day for children and 40 to 50 mg / kg / day over 8 to 12 hours in adults for 5 to 7 days per week .
In children , average doses should not exceed 40 mg / kg / day until growth has ceased .
In adults , average doses should not exceed 60 mg / kg / day .
The intravenous infusion rate should not exceed 15 mg / kg / hour .
For reconstitution instructions for intravenous administration see Table 2 .
In patients who are poorly compliant , Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP may be administered prior to or following same day blood transfusion ( for example 1 gram over 4 hours on the day of transfusion ) ; however , the contribution of this mode of administration to iron balance is limited .
Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP should not be administered concurrently with the blood transfusion as this can lead to errors in interpreting side effects such as rash , anaphylaxis and hypotension .
Intramuscular Administration A daily dose of 500 to 1 , 000 mg may be administered intramuscularly .
The total daily dose should not exceed 1 , 000 mg .
For reconstitution instructions for intramuscular administration see Table 1 .
Reconstitution and Preparation Table 1 : Preparation for Intramuscular AdministrationRECONSTITUTE DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE FOR INJECTION , USP WITH STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION Vial Size Amount of Sterile Water for Injection Required for Reconstitution Total Drug Content after Reconstitution Final Concentration per mL after Reconstitution 500 mg 2 mL 500 mg / 2 . 35 mL 213 mg / mL 2 grams 8 mL 2 grams / 9 . 4 mL 213 mg / mL Table 2 : Preparation for Intravenous AdministrationRECONSTITUTE DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE FOR INJECTION , USP WITH STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION Vial Size Amount of Sterile Water for Injection Required for Reconstitution Total Drug Content after Reconstitution Final Concentration per mL after Reconstitution 500 mg 5 mL 500 mg / 5 . 3 mL 95 mg / mL 2 grams 20 mL 2 grams / 21 . 1 mL 95 mg / mL Table 3 : Preparation for Subcutaneous AdministrationRECONSTITUTE DEFEROXAMINE MESYLATE FOR INJECTION , USP WITH STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION Vial Size Amount of Sterile Water for Injection Required for Reconstitution Total Drug Content after Reconstitution Final Concentration per mL after Reconstitution 500 mg 5 mL 500 mg / 5 . 3 mL 95 mg / mL 2 grams 20 mL 2 grams / 21 . 1 mL 95 mg / mL The reconstituted deferoxamine mesylate solution is an isotonic , clear and colorless to slightly - yellowish solution .
The drug should be completely dissolved before the solution is withdrawn .
Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection IS FOR SINGLE - DOSE ONLY .
Discard unused portion .
The product should be used immediately after reconstitution ( commencement of treatment within 3 hours ) for microbiological safety .
When reconstitution is carried out under validated aseptic conditions ( in a sterile laminar flow hood using aseptic technique ) , the product may be stored at room temperature for a maximum period of 24 hours before use .
Do not refrigerate reconstituted solution .
Reconstituting Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP in solvents or under conditions other than indicated may result in precipitation .
Turbid solutions should not be used .
HOW SUPPLIED Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 2336 - 10 500 mg Carton of 4 Single - dose Fliptop vials NDC 0409 - 2337 - 25 2 g Carton of 4 Single - dose Fliptop vials Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
For single - dose only .
Discard unused portion .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1006 - 3 . 0 Revised : 8 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Vial Label Single - dose Vial Rx only Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP 500 mg / vial INTRAVENOUS , INTRAMUSCULAR , SUBCUTANEOUS USE Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Vial Carton 4 Single - dose Vials Rx only NDC 0409 - 2336 - 10 Contains 4 of NDC 0409 - 2336 - 01 Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP 500 mg / vial Hospira Each vial contains deferoxamine mesylate USP , 500 mg in lyophilized form .
INTRAVENOUS , INTRAMUSCULAR , SUBCUTANEOUS USE Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 g Vial Label Fliptop Vial Rx only Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP 2 g / vial For single - dose only .
For S . C . , I . M . or I . V . Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 g Vial Carton 4 Fliptop Vials Rx only NDC 0409 - 2337 - 25 Contains 4 of NDC 0409 - 2337 - 15 Deferoxamine Mesylate for Injection , USP 2 g / vial Hospira Each vial contains deferoxamine mesylate USP , 2 g in lyophilized form .
For subcutaneous , intramuscular or intravenous administration .
For single - dose only .
Discard unused portion .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
