Active Ingredients Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 0 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Storage Other information protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Alcohol denat . , Tribehenin , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Niacinamide , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Panthenol , Polysorbate 20 , Tocopheryl acetate , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Dimethiconol , Caprylyl glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium benzoate , Bisabolol , Xanthan gum , Ethylhexylglycerin , Dipropylene glycol , Citric acid , Sphinganine , Simethicone , Tetrasodium EDTA , Potassium hydroxide , T - butyl alcohol , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Camellia sinensis leaf extract , BHT .
Description All day hydration for dry skin CO - CREATED with MENOPAUSAL WOMEN Hydrates skin sypically associated with menopause .
Formulated with SPF to help protect your skin from UV damage and aging .
Proven to moisturize unbalanced skin , to leave it feeling less dry and sensitive in 1 week .
Dermatologist approved for menopausal skin .
Moisturizing Niacinamide Hydrating complex SPF 30 with Broad Spectrum Protection SUITABLE FOR SENSITIVE SKIN The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . No7beauty . com Carton carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
