Rev 02 / 09 Rx Only DESCRIPTION Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets contain 0 . 375 mg hyoscyamine sulfate in a formulation designed for oral b . i . d . dosage .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is one of the principal anticholinergic / antispasmodic components of belladonna alkaloids .
The empirical formula is ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • 2H2O and the molecular weight is 712 . 85 .
Chemically , it is benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] oct - 3 - yl ester , [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] - , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , dihydrate with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet also contains as inactive ingredients : Colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits specifically the actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of the smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node and the exocrine glands .
At therapeutic doses , it is completely devoid of any action on the autonomic ganglia .
Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits gastrointestinal propulsive motility and decreases gastric acid secretion .
Hyoscyamine sulfate also controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal and bronchial secretions .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is absorbed totally and completely by oral administration .
Once absorbed , hyoscyamine sulfate disappears rapidly from the blood and is distributed throughout the entire body .
The half - life of hyoscyamine sulfate is 2 to 3 1 / 2 hours .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is partly hydrolyzed to tropic acid and tropine but the majority of the drug is excreted in the urine unchanged within the first 12 hours .
Only traces of this drug are found in breast milk .
Hyoscyamine sulfate passes the blood brain barrier and the placental barrier .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets release 0 . 375 mg hyoscyamine sulfate at a controlled and predictable rate for 12 hours .
Tablets may not completely disintegrate and may be excreted by some patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets are effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
They can also be used to control gastric secretions , visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis , spastic bladder , cystitis , pylorospasm and associated abdominal cramps .
May be used in functional intestinal disorders to reduce symptoms such as those seen in mild dysenteries , diverticulitis and acute enterocolitis .
For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and functional gastrointestinal disorders .
Also used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder and neurogenic bowel disturbances ( including the splenic flexure syndrome and neurogenic colon ) .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets are indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic ; as a “ drying agent ” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis ; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis .
May be used in the therapy of poisoning by anticholinesterase agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of elderly or debilitated patients ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
WARNINGS In the presence of high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Like other anticholinergic agents , hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs including hyoscyamine sulfate .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , short - term memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , coma , euphoria , anxiety , decreased anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
PRECAUTIONS General : Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension and renal disease .
Investigate any tachycardia before giving any anticholinergic drugs since they may increase the heart rate .
Use with caution in patients with hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Information for Patients : Like other anticholinergic agents , hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Use of hyoscyamine sulfate may decrease sweating resulting in heat prostration , fever or heat stroke ; febrile patients or those who may be exposed to elevated environmental temperatures should use caution .
Tablets may not completely disintegrate and may be excreted by some patients .
Drug Interactions : Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade may occur when hyoscyamine sulfate is administered concomitantly with other antimuscarinics , amantadine , haloperidol , phenothiazines , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants or some antihistamines .
Antacids may interfere with the absorption of hyoscyamine sulfate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential of hyoscyamine sulfate ; however , 40 years of marketing experience with hyoscyamine sulfate shows no demonstrable evidence of a problem .
Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with hyoscyamine sulfate .
It is also not known whether hyoscyamine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Hyoscyamine sulfate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use : Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in safety between patients aged 65 and over and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported for hyoscyamine sulfate and for pharmacologically similar drugs with anticholinergic / antispasmodic action .
Adverse reactions may include dryness of the mouth ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; fatigue ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; abdominal pain ; diarrhea ; allergic reactions or drug idiosyncrasies ; urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; ataxia ; speech disturbance ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement ( especially in elderly persons ) ; short - term memory loss ; hallucinations ; and decreased sweating .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing and CNS stimulation .
Measures to be taken are immediate lavage of the stomach and injection of physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg .
Fever may be treated symptomatically ( tepid water sponge baths , hypothermic blanket ) .
Excitement to a degree which demands attention may be managed with sodium thiopental 2 % solution given slowly intravenously or chloral hydrate ( 100 - 200 mL of a 2 % solution ) by rectal infusion .
In the event of progression of the curare - like effect to paralysis of the respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
In rats , the LD50 for hyoscyamine is 375 mg / kg .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : 1 to 2 tablets every 12 hours .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
Do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets , 0 . 375 mg are white , capsule shaped , biconvex tablets debossed with “ CL ” on one side and “ 14 ” on the other .
Bottles of 180 NDC 33261 - 0907 - 99 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Please refer to current USP .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Manufactured for : County Line Pharmaceuticals , LLC Brookfield , WI 53005 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 For inquiries call toll free 1 - 866 - 207 - 5636 .
PI - 9328 Rev 02 / 09 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 33261 - 0907 - 99 180 Tablets Hyoscyamine Sulfate Extended - Release Tablets 0 . 375 mg Rx Only Each tablet contains 0 . 375 mg hyoscyamine sulfate , USP .
USUAL DOSAGE : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Please refer to the current USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
