1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are indicated as a treatment to improve walking in adult patients with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Dalfampridine is a potassium channel blocker indicated to improve walking in adult patients with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed ( 1 , 14 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The maximum recommended dosage is 10 mg twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) .
There is no evidence of additional benefit with doses greater than 10 mg twice daily .
Adverse reactions , including seizures , were more frequent at higher doses .
( 2 . 1 ) • Take with or without food .
Administer tablets whole ; do not divide , crush , chew , or dissolve ( 2 . 2 ) • Patients should not take double or extra doses if they miss a dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • Estimated creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) should be known before initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
In patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 to 80 mL / min ) , dalfampridine extended - release tablets may reach plasma levels associated with a greater risk of seizures , and the potential benefits of dalfampridine extended - release tablets should be carefully considered against the risk of seizures in these patients ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information The maximum recommended dosage of dalfampridine extended - release tablet is one 10 mg tablet twice daily and should not be exceeded .
Take doses approximately 12 hours apart .
There is no evidence of additional benefit at doses greater than 10 mg twice daily .
Adverse reactions , including seizures , and discontinuations because of adverse reactions were more frequent at higher doses .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions Dalfampridine extended - release tablet can be taken with or without food .
Administer tablets whole ; do not divide , crush , chew , or dissolve dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
If a dose is missed , patients should not take double or extra doses .
2 . 3 Renal Monitoring Prior to and During Treatment Estimated creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) should be known before initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended - release tablets , and monitored at least annually during treatment with dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
CrCl can be estimated using the following equation ( multiply by 0 . 85 for women ) : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 to 80 mL / min ) , dalfampridine extended - release tablet plasma levels may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily , a dose that is 1 . 5 times the maximum recommended dose and may be associated with an increased risk of seizures .
As mild renal impairment is common after age 50 , estimating CrCl is particularly important in these patients .
The potential benefits of dalfampridine extended - release tablet should be carefully considered against the risk of seizures in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablet is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 50 mL / min ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are available in a 10 mg strength and is a white to off white , biconvex , oval shaped , beveled edge , film coated tablets , debossed “ D 10 ” on one side and plain on other side .
10 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of dalfampridine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions : • History of seizure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Moderate or severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 50 mL / min ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • History of hypersensitivity to dalfampridine extended - release tablets or 4 - aminopyridine ; reactions have included anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • History of seizure ( 4 ) • Moderate or severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 50 mL / min ) ( 4 ) • History of hypersensitivity to dalfampridine extended - release tablets or 4 - aminopyridine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause seizures ; the risk of seizures increases with increasing dalfampridine extended - release tablets doses ; discontinue dalfampridine extended - release tablets and do not restart if a seizure occurs ( 5 . 1 ) • Avoid concomitant use with other forms of 4 - aminopyridine ( 4 - AP , fampridine ) , since the active ingredient is the same ( 5 . 3 ) • Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause anaphylaxis .
Discontinue and do not restart dalfampridine extended - release tablets if this occurs ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Seizures Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause seizures .
Increased incidence of seizures has been observed at 20 mg twice daily ( 2 times the maximum recommended dosage ) in controlled clinical studies of 9 to 14 weeks duration with dalfampridine in patients with MS . In open - label extension trials in MS patients , the incidence of seizures during treatment with dalfampridine 15 mg twice daily ( 1 . 7 / 100 PY ) was over 4 times higher than the incidence during treatment with 10 mg twice daily ( 0 . 4 / 100 PY ) .
In the post - marketing period seizures have been reported .
The majority of seizures occurred at the recommended dose and in patients without a history of seizures , and generally within days to weeks of starting therapy .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets has not been evaluated in patients with a history of seizures or with evidence of epileptiform activity on an EEG , as these patients were excluded from clinical trials .
The risk of seizures in patients with epileptiform activity on an EEG is unknown , and could be substantially higher than that observed in dalfampridine extended - release tablets clinical studies .
Permanently discontinue dalfampridine extended - release tablets in patients who have a seizure while on treatment .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of seizures [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Renal Impairment Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are eliminated through the kidneys primarily as unchanged drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 50 mL / min ) would require a dose lower than 10 mg twice daily and no strength smaller than 10 mg is available , dalfampridine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in these patients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 to 80 mL / min ) , dalfampridine extended - release tablets plasma levels may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily , a dose that may be associated with an increased risk of seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Concurrent Treatment with Other Forms of 4 - Aminopyridine Avoid concomitant use with other forms of 4 - aminopyridine ( 4 - AP , fampridine ) since the active ingredient is the same .
Instruct patients to discontinue use of any product containing 4 - aminopyridine prior to initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended - release tablets in order to reduce the potential for dose - related adverse reactions .
5 . 4 Anaphylaxis Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause anaphylaxis and severe allergic reactions .
Signs and symptoms have included respiratory compromise , urticaria , and angioedema of the throat and or tongue .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to dalfampridine extended - release tablets or 4 - aminopyridine .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and instruct them to discontinue dalfampridine extended - release tablets and seek immediate medical care should these signs and symptoms occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in more detail elsewhere in the labeling : • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse events ( incidence ≥ 2 % and at a rate greater than the placebo rate ) for dalfampridine extended - release tablets were urinary tract infection , insomnia , dizziness , headache , nausea , asthenia , back pain , balance disorder , multiple sclerosis relapse , paresthesia , nasopharyngitis , constipation , dyspepsia , and pharyngolaryngeal pain ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In three placebo - controlled clinical trials of up to 14 weeks duration , 4 % ( 15 / 400 ) of patients treated with dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily experienced one or more adverse reactions leading to discontinuation , compared to 2 % ( 5 / 238 ) of placebo - treated patients .
The adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of at least 2 patients treated with dalfampridine extended - release tablets and that led to discontinuation more frequently compared to placebo were headache ( dalfampridine extended - release tablets 0 . 5 % , placebo 0 % ) , balance disorder ( dalfampridine extended - release tablets 0 . 5 % , placebo 0 % ) , dizziness ( dalfampridine extended - release tablets 0 . 5 % , placebo 0 % ) , and confusional state ( dalfampridine extended - release tablets 0 . 3 % , placebo 0 % ) .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily , and more frequently than in placebo - treated patients , in controlled clinical trials .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions with an Incidence ≥ 2 % of dalfampridine extended - release tablets - Treated Adult MS Patients and More Frequent with dalfampridine extended - release tablets Compared to Placebo in Controlled Clinical Trials Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 238 ) % Dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily ( N = 400 ) % Urinary tract infection 8 12 Insomnia 4 9 Dizziness 4 7 Headache 4 7 Nausea 3 7 Asthenia 4 7 Back pain 2 5 Balance disorder 1 5 Multiple sclerosis relapse 3 4 Paresthesia 3 4 Nasopharyngitis 2 4 Constipation 2 3 Dyspepsia 1 2 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 1 2 Other Adverse Reactions Dalfampridine extended - release tablets has been evaluated in a total of 1 , 952 subjects , including 917 MS patients .
A total of 741 patients have been treated with dalfampridine extended - release tablets for over six months , 501 for over one year and 352 for over two years .
The experience in open - label clinical trials is consistent with the safety profile observed in the placebo - controlled clinical trials .
As in controlled clinical trials , a dose - dependent increase in the incidence of seizures has been observed in open - label clinical trials with dalfampridine extended - release tablets in patients with MS as follows : dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily 0 . 41 per 100 person - years ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 13 to 0 . 96 ) ; dalfampridine 15 mg twice daily 1 . 7 per 100 person - years ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 21 to 6 . 28 ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use with dalfampridine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : vomiting , vertigo .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS OCT2 Inhibitors : Concomitant use may cause an increased exposure and potential risk of seizures ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 OCT2 Inhibitors Concurrent treatment with OCT2 inhibitors , such as cimetidine , may cause increased exposure to dalfampridine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Elevated levels of dalfampridine increase the risk of seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
The potential benefits of taking OCT2 inhibitors concurrently with dalfampridine extended - release tablets should be considered against the risk of seizures in these patients .
7 . 2 Baclofen No interaction was identified between dalfampridine and baclofen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) • Geriatric use : Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it is particularly important to know the estimated CrCl in these patients before initiating dalfampridine extended - release tablets treatment ( 4 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use of dalfampridine extended - release tablets in pregnant women .
Administration of dalfampridine to animals during pregnancy and lactation resulted in decreased offspring viability and growth at clinically relevant doses [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of dalfampridine to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis resulted in no evidence of developmental toxicity in either species .
The highest doses tested ( 10 mg / kg / day in rats , 5 mg / kg / day in rabbits ) , which were associated with maternal toxicity , are approximately 5 times the MRHD on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Oral administration of dalfampridine ( 0 , 1 , 3 , and 9 to 6 mg / kg / day ; high dose reduced during the second week of dosing ) to female rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in decreased offspring viability at the highest dose tested and decreased body weight in offspring at the mid and high doses .
The no - effect dose for pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity in rats ( 1 mg / kg / day ) is less than the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dalfampridine in human milk , the effects of dalfampridine on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for dalfampridine extended - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from dalfampridine extended - release tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of dalfampridine extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
A population PK analysis showed that dalfampridine clearance modestly decreased with increasing age , but not sufficiently to necessitate a modification of dose with age .
Other reported clinical experience has identified no differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are known to be substantially excreted by the kidneys and the risk of adverse reactions , including seizures , is greater with increasing exposure of dalfampridine .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it is particularly important to know the estimated creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Impaired Renal Function Clearance of dalfampridine is decreased in patients with renal impairment and is significantly correlated with creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 50 mL / min ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The risk of seizures in patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 to 80 mL / min ) is unknown , but dalfampridine plasma levels in these patients may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily , a dose that may be associated with an increased risk of seizures .
If unknown , estimated creatinine clearance should be calculated prior to initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended - release tablets [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Three cases of overdose were reported in controlled clinical trials with dalfampridine extended - release tablets , involving two MS patients .
The first patient took six times the currently recommended dose ( 60 mg ) and was taken to the emergency room with altered mental state .
The second patient took 40 mg doses on two separate occasions .
In the first instance , she experienced a complex partial seizure and , in the second instance , a period of confusion .
Both patients recovered by the following day without sequelae .
Several cases of overdose are found in the scientific literature in which various formulations of dalfampridine were used , resulting in numerous adverse events including seizure , confusion , tremulousness , diaphoresis , and amnesia .
In some instances , patients developed status epilepticus , requiring intensive supportive care and were responsive to standard therapy for seizures .
In one published case report , an MS patient who ingested 300 mg of 4 - aminopyridine ( dalfampridine ) developed a condition that resembled limbic encephalitis .
This patient developed weakness , reduced awareness , memory loss , hypophonic speech , and temporal lobe hyperintensities on MRI .
The patient ’ s speech and language and ambulation improved over time , and an MRI at 4 months after the overdose no longer showed signal abnormalities .
At one year , the patient continued to have difficulty with short term memory and learning new tasks .
11 DESCRIPTION Dalfampridine is a potassium channel blocker , available in a 10 mg tablet strength .
Each tablet contains 10 mg dalfampridine , formulated as an extended - release tablet for twice - daily oral administration .
Dalfampridine is also known by its chemical name , 4 - aminopyridine , with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are available in a 10 mg strength and are white to off white , biconvex , oval shaped , beveled edge , film coated tablets , debossed “ D 10 ” on one side and plain on other side , containing 10 mg of dalfampridine .
Inactive ingredients consist of colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
Dalfampridine is a White to off white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 94 . 1 , CAS 504 - 24 - 5 , and a molecular formula of C5H6N2 .
At ambient conditions , dalfampridine is soluble in water , methanol , acetone , isopropanol , acetonitrile and N , N - dimethylformamide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of action The mechanism by which dalfampridine exerts its therapeutic effect has not been fully elucidated .
Dalfampridine is a broad spectrum potassium channel blocker .
In animal studies , dalfampridine has been shown to increase conduction of action potentials in demyelinated axons through inhibition of potassium channels .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Dalfampridine extended - release tablets does not prolong the QTc interval and does not have a clinically important effect on QRS duration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Distribution Orally administered dalfampridine is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Absolute bioavailability of dalfampridine extended - release tablets has not been assessed , but relative bioavailability is 96 % when compared to an aqueous oral solution .
The extended release tablet delays absorption of dalfampridine relative to the solution formulation , giving a slower rise to a lower peak concentration ( Cmax ) , with no effect on the extent of absorption ( AUC ) .
Single dalfampridine extended - release tablet 10 mg doses administered to healthy volunteers in a fasted state gave peak concentrations ranging from 17 . 3 ng / mL to 21 . 6 ng / mL occurring 3 to 4 hours post - administration ( Tmax ) .
In comparison , Cmax with the same 10 mg dose of dalfampridine in an oral solution was 42 . 7 ng / mL and occurred approximately 1 . 3 hours after dosing .
Exposure increased proportionally with dose .
Dalfampridine is largely unbound to plasma proteins ( 97 to 99 % ) .
The apparent volume of distribution is 2 . 6 L / kg .
There is no apparent difference in pharmacokinetic parameter values following administration of dalfampridine extended - release tablets to either healthy volunteers or patients with MS . When dalfampridine is taken with food , there is a slight increase in Cmax ( 12 to 17 % ) and a slight decrease in AUC ( 4 to 7 % ) .
These changes in exposure are not clinically significant , and therefore the drug may be taken with or without food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Metabolism and Elimination Dalfampridine and metabolites elimination is nearly complete after 24 hours , with 95 . 9 % of the dose recovered in urine and 0 . 5 % recovered in feces .
Most of the excreted radioactivity in urine was parent drug ( 90 . 3 % ) .
Two metabolites were identified : 3 - hydroxy - 4 - aminopyridine ( 4 . 3 % ) and 3 - hydroxy - 4 - aminopyridine sulfate ( 2 . 6 % ) .
These metabolites have been shown to have no pharmacologic activity on potassium channels .
The apparent elimination half - life of dalfampridine following administration of the extended release tablet formulation of dalfampridine is 5 . 2 to 6 . 5 hours .
The plasma half - life of the sulfate conjugate is approximately 7 . 6 hours and the half - life of 3 - hydroxy - 4 - aminopyridine could not be calculated because concentrations for most subjects were close to or below the limit of quantitation .
In vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicate that CYP2E1 was the major enzyme responsible for the 3 - hydroxylation of dalfampridine .
The identity of the CYP enzymes suspected of playing a minor role in the 3 - hydroxylation of dalfampridine could not be established unequivocally .
Specific Populations Pediatric The safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 18 years of age have not been established .
Geriatric A population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that dalfampridine clearance modestly decreased with increasing age , but not sufficiently to necessitate a modification of dose .
Gender A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggested that female patients would be expected to have higher maximum dalfampridine plasma concentration than male patients .
The magnitude of these differences is small and does not necessitate any dose modification .
Renal Impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of dalfampridine was studied in 9 male and 11 female subjects with varying degrees of renal function .
Elimination of the drug is significantly correlated with the creatinine clearance .
Total body clearance of dalfampridine was reduced by about 45 % in patients with mild renal impairment ( CrCl 51 to 80 mL / min ) , by about 50 % in patients with moderate renal impairment ( CrCl = 30 to 50 mL / min ) , and by about 75 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
The terminal half - life of dalfampridine is about 3 . 3 times longer in patients with severe renal impairment but is not prolonged in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of dalfampridine in hepatically impaired subjects has not been studied .
Since dalfampridine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine , hepatic impairment is not expected to significantly affect dalfampridine pharmacokinetics or recommended dosing .
Race There were too few non - Caucasians in the patient population to evaluate the effect of race .
Drug Interactions Effects of Co - administered Drugs on Dalfampridine Interferon Dalfampridine kinetics were not affected by co - administration of subcutaneous injections of 8 million units interferon beta - 1 b .
Baclofen Based on a population analysis , dalfampridine kinetics were not affected by baclofen .
Cimetidine In a single - dose clinical study , 23 healthy volunteers took the OCT2 inhibitor cimetidine 400 mg every 6 hours concurrently with dalfampridine 10 mg single dose .
The test - reference ratio for AUC0 –∞ was 125 % ( 90 % confidence interval : 121 % to 130 % ) due to a reduction in the clearance of dalfampridine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Effects of Dalfampridine on Co - administered Drugs In vitro data with human liver microsomes showed that dalfampridine was not a direct or time - dependent inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 / 5 .
Dalfampridine is not likely to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of these enzymes .
Other in vitro studies with cultured human hepatocytes with 0 . 025 μM , 0 . 25 μM , 2 . 5 μM , and 25 μM dalfampridine had little or no effect on CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2E1 , or CYP3A4 / 5 enzyme activities .
Consequently , the potential for dalfampridine to induce human hepatocytes at therapeutic concentrations is remote .
In vitro , dalfampridine is not a substrate or an inhibitor for the p - glycoprotein transporter .
The pharmacokinetics of dalfampridine extended - release tablets are unlikely to be affected by drugs that inhibit the p - glycoprotein transporter , and dalfampridine is not likely to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates of the p - glycoprotein transporter .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Two - year dietary carcinogenicity studies of dalfampridine were conducted in mice and rats .
In mice , the doses tested ( approximately 2 , 12 . 5 , and 80 mg / kg / day ) were associated with plasma exposures ( AUC ) up to 11 times the plasma AUC in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg / day .
There was no evidence of drug - related carcinogenicity .
In rats , the doses tested ( approximately 2 , 6 , and 18 mg / kg / day ) were approximately 1 , 3 , and 9 times the MRHD on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
There was a significant increase in uterine polyps at the highest dose tested .
MutagenesisDalfampridine was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , mouse lymphoma tk , chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse bone marrow , rat erythrocyte micronucleus ) genetic toxicology assays .
Impairment of Fertility Oral administration of dalfampridine ( 0 , 1 , 3 , and 9 mg / kg / day ) to male and female rats prior to and throughout mating , and continuing in females through early pregnancy ( to gestation day 13 ) or throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in no adverse effects on fertility .
Reduced offspring viability and body weight were observed at 9 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects on fertility ( 9 mg / kg / day ) and reproductive performance ( 3 mg / kg / day ) are 4 times and similar to , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of dalfampridine extended - release tablets in improving walking in patients with multiple sclerosis was evaluated in two adequate and well controlled trials involving 540 patients .
Patients in these two clinical trials had a mean disease duration of 13 years and a mean Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) score of 6 .
Trial 1 was a randomized , placebo - controlled , parallel group , 21 - week study ( one week post screening , two - week , single - blind placebo run - in , 14 - week double - blind treatment , and 4 - week no treatment follow - up ) in 301 patients with multiple sclerosis at 33 centers in the U . S . and Canada : 229 patients assigned to dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily and 72 patients assigned to placebo .
A total of 283 patients ( 212 dalfampridine extended - release tablets and 71 placebo ) completed all study visits .
Patient inclusion criteria included the ability to walk 25 feet in 8 to 45 seconds .
Patient exclusion criteria included a history of seizures or evidence of epileptiform activity on a screening EEG , and onset of an MS exacerbation within 60 days .
Trial 2 was a randomized , placebo - controlled , parallel group , 14 - week study ( one week post - screening , two weeks of single - blind , placebo run - in , nine weeks of double - blind treatment , and two weeks of no - treatment follow - up ) in 239 patients with multiple sclerosis at 39 centers in the U . S . and Canada : 120 patients assigned to 10 mg twice daily and 119 assigned to placebo .
A total of 227 patients ( 113 dalfampridine extended - release tablets and 114 placebo ) completed all study visits .
The patient inclusion and exclusion criteria used in Trial 1 were employed in Trial 2 , and in addition patients with severe renal impairment were also excluded .
The primary measure of efficacy in both trials was walking speed ( in feet per second ) as measured by the Timed 25 - foot Walk ( T25FW ) , using a responder analysis .
A responder was defined as a patient who showed faster walking speed for at least three visits out of a possible four during the double - blind period than the maximum value achieved in the five non - double - blind no treatment visits ( four before the double - blind period and one after ) .
A significantly greater proportion of patients taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily were responders , compared to patients taking placebo , as measured by the T25FW ( Trial 1 : 34 . 8 % vs . 8 . 3 % ; Trial 2 : 42 . 9 % vs . 9 . 3 % ) .
The increased response rate in the dalfampridine extended - release tablets group was observed across all four major types of MS disease course .
During the double - blind treatment period , a significantly greater proportion of patients taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets 10 mg twice daily had increases in walking speed of at least 10 % , 20 % , or 30 % from baseline , compared to placebo ( Figure 1 and Figure 2 ) .
Figure 1 : Average walking speed change ( % ) from baseline during the double - blind phase of Trial 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Average walking speed change ( % ) from baseline during the double - blind phase of Trial 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In Trial 1 and Trial 2 , consistent improvements in walking speed were shown to be associated with improvements on a patient self - assessment of ambulatory disability , the 12 - item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale ( MSWS - 12 ) , for both drug and placebo treated patients .
However , a drug - placebo difference was not established for that outcome measure .
The majority of patients in these trials ( 63 % ) were using immunomodulatory drugs ( interferons , glatiramer acetate , or natalizumab ) , but the magnitude of improvement in walking ability was independent of concomitant treatment with these drugs .
No differences in effectiveness based on degree of impairment , age , gender , or body mass index were detected .
There were too few non - Caucasians in the patient population to evaluate the effect of race .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dalfampridine extended - release tablets , 10 mg are white to off white , biconvex , oval shaped , beveled edge , film coated tablets , debossed “ D 10 ” on one side and plain on other side and are available in bottles of 60 , 90 & 500 .
• NDC 67877 - 444 - 60 bottles of 60 tablets • NDC 67877 - 444 - 90 bottles of 90 tablets • NDC 67877 - 444 - 05 bottles of 500 tablets Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15ºC to 30ºC ( 59ºF to 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Risk of Seizures Inform patients that dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause seizures , and that they must discontinue use of dalfampridine extended - release tablets if they experience a seizure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets dosing Instruct patients to take dalfampridine extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed .
Instruct patients not to take a double dose after they miss a dose , as this would increase their risk of seizure .
Instruct patients not to take more than 2 tablets in a 24 - hour period and to make sure that there is an approximate 12 - hour interval between doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
Effects on Driving or Using Machinery Counsel patients that central nervous system - related adverse reactions , such as vertigo and dizziness , associated with the use of dalfampridine extended - release tablets might impair their ability to drive or use machinery should they develop these symptoms .
Anaphylaxis Advise patients to discontinue dalfampridine extended - release tablets and seek medical care if they develop signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider prior to starting any new medication , including over - the - counter drugs .
Storage Advise patients to store dalfampridine extended - release tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , with excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Advise patients to safely throw away dalfampridine extended - release tablets that are out of date or no longer needed .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : June , 2022 PT2220 - 04 MEDICATION GUIDE Dalfampridine extended - release tablets ( dal FAM pri dine ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can cause seizures .
• You could have a seizure even if you never had a seizure before .
• Your chance of having a seizure is higher if you take too much dalfampridine extended - release tablets or if your kidneys have a mild decrease of function , which is common after age 50 .
• Your doctor may do a blood test to check how well your kidneys are working , if that is not known before you start taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
• Do not take dalfampridine extended - release tablets if you have ever had a seizure .
• Before taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets tell your doctor if you have kidney problems .
• Take dalfampridine extended - release tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
See “ How should I take dalfampridine extended - release tablets ? ”
Stop taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets and call your doctor right away if you have a seizure while taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
What is dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Dalfampridine extended - release tablet is a prescription medicine used to help improve walking in adults with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
This was shown by an increase in walking speed .
It is not known if dalfampridine extended - release tablets are safe or effective in children less than 18 years of age .
Who should not take dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Do not take dalfampridine extended - release tablets if you : • have ever had a seizure • have certain types of kidney problems • are allergic to dalfampridine ( 4 - aminopyridine ) , the active ingredient in dalfampridine extended - release tablets What should I tell my doctor before taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Before you take dalfampridine extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have any other medical conditions • are taking compounded 4 - aminopyridine ( fampridine , 4 - AP ) • are taking any other medicines , including over - the - counter medicines such as cimetidine • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if dalfampridine extended - release tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if dalfampridine extended - release tablets passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
• Take dalfampridine extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Do not change your dose of dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
• Take one tablet of dalfampridine extended - release tablets 2 times each day about 12 hours apart .
Do not take more than 2 dalfampridine extended - release tablets in a 24 - hour period .
• Take dalfampridine extended - release tablets whole .
Do not break , crush , chew or dissolve dalfampridine extended - release tablets before swallowing .
If you cannot swallow dalfampridine extended - release tablets whole , tell your doctor .
• Dalfampridine extended - release tablets are released slowly over time .
If the tablet is broken , the medicine may be released too fast .
This can raise your chance of having a seizure .
• Dalfampridine extended - release tablets can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose of dalfampridine extended - release tablets , do not make up the missed dose .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
Take your next dose at your regular scheduled time .
• If you take too much dalfampridine extended - release tablets , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Do not take dalfampridine extended - release tablets together with other aminopyridine medications , including compounded 4 - AP ( sometimes called 4 - aminopyridine , fampridine ) .
What should I avoid while taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets may cause dizziness or vertigo .
If you have these symptoms , do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities .
What are the possible side effects of dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Dalfampridine extended - release tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • serious allergic reactions .
Stop taking dalfampridine extended - release tablets and call your doctor right away or get emergency medical help if you have : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • swelling of your throat or tongue • hives See “ What is the most important information I should know about dalfampridine extended - release tablets ? ”
The most common side effects of dalfampridine extended - release tablets include : • urinary tract infection • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • dizziness • headache • nausea • weakness • back pain • problems with balance • multiple sclerosis relapse • burning , tingling or itching of your skin • irritation in your nose and throat • constipation • indigestion • pain in your throat Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
• Store dalfampridine extended - release tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Safely throw away dalfampridine extended - release tablets that are out of date or no longer needed .
Keep dalfampridine extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of dalfampridine extended - release tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use dalfampridine extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give dalfampridine extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about dalfampridine extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about dalfampridine extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) .
What are the ingredients in dalfampridine extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : dalfampridine ( previously called fampridine ) Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : June , 2022 PT 2221 - 05 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Dalfampridine Extended - release Tablets Rx ONLY 10 mg PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient 60 tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
