DESCRIPTION Each mL of Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion , 10 % contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide in a vehicle consisting of edetic acid , hydroxyethyl cellulose , lauramide DEA , methylparaben , PEG - 400 monolaurate , propylene glycol , purified water , silicone emulsion , sodium chloride , sodium metabisulfite , and xanthan gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is N ' - [ ( 4 - amino phenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , based on sulfonamides acting as a competitive inhibitor of para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) utilization , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin in humans has not been determined , in vitro studies with human cadaver skin indicated a percutaneous absorption of about 4 % .
Sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has been reported to be between 7 to 13 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of sulfacetamide and its major metabolite sulfaniliamide in Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion was evaluated in adult subjects ( N = 14 ) with acne vulgaris .
The subjects applied Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion to their face , back , chest , and shoulders every 12 hours for 28 days .
The percentage of the applied dose of Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion excreted in the urine as sulfacetamide plus sulfanilamide ranged from 0 . 08 to 0 . 33 % .
INDICATIONS Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion is indicated in the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or any other component of this preparation ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
Sensitivity reactions have been reported in individuals with no prior history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , skin rash , or other reactions , discontinue use of this preparation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General For external use only .
Keep away from eyes .
If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration , and cross - sensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
Sodium sulfacetamide can cause reddening and scaling of the skin .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of involved skin to be treated are denuded or abraded .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Kernicterus may occur in the newborn as a result of treatment of a pregnant woman at term with orally administered sulfonamide .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion in pregnant women , and it is not known whether topically applied sulfonamides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion .
Systemically administered sulfonamides are capable of producing kernicterus in the infants of lactating women .
Small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised in prescribing for nursing women .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials for the management of acne vulgaris , the occurrence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion was infrequent and restricted to local events .
The total incidence of adverse reactions reported in these studies was less than 2 % .
Only one of 105 patients treated with Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion had adverse reactions of erythema , itching , and edema .
It has been reported that sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation , stinging , and burning .
While the irritation may be transient , occasionally the use of medication has to be discontinued .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oceanside Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to affected areas twice daily .
HOW SUPPLIED 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) Bottles NDC 68682 - 010 - 04 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Shake well before using .
Keep tightly closed .
Distributed by : Oceanside Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc .
Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada © 2019 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9473904 Rev . 05 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton NDC 68682 - 010 - 04 Rx only Sodium Sulfacetamide Lotion , 10 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING One 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) Bottle OCEANSIDE PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
