ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Alcohol 1 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Rose Extract , Onsen - Sui , Decyl Glucoside , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Extract , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Arginine , Lactic Acid , Polyglyceryl - 4 Caprate , Salicornia Herbacea Extract , Phragmites Communis Extract , Lactuca Indica Extract , Corydalis Ochotensis Extract , Draba Nemorosa Extract , Chenopodium Album Flower Extract , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Ficus Carica ( Fig ) Fruit Extract , Morus Alba Fruit Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Nut Extract , Soy Isoflavones , Cimicifuga Racemosa Root , Polygonum Cuspidatum Root Extract , Pueraria Lobata Root Extract , Angelica Polymorpha Sinensis Root Extract , Punica Granatum Extract , Trifolium Pratense ( Clover ) Flower Extract , Pueraria Mirifica Root Extract , Butylene Glycol , Larix Sibirica Wood Extract , Chrysanthellum Indicum Extract , Rheum Palmatum Root / Stalk Extract , Asarum Sieboldi Root Extract , Quercus Mongolia Leaf Extract , Persicaria Hydropiper Extract , Illicium Verum ( Anise ) Fruit Extract , Corydalis Turtschaninovii Root Extract , Coptis Japonica Root Extract , Machilus Thunbergii Bark Extract , Pyridoxine HCl , Rosa Damascena Flower Oil , Sapindus Mukurossi Fruit Extract , RH - Oligopeptide - 1 , Disodium EDTA , Menthol PURPOSE Purpose : Sanitizer WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only 1 .
Please discontinue use immediately in the event that you experience any of the following side effects from using this product , and consult a dermatologist as the symptoms may get worse with continued use .
( a ) Adverse skin reactions occur upon its application which may involve red spots , swelling , itchiness , and other skin irritation .
( b ) The applied part shows signs of any of the symptoms mentioned above after exposure to the direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not apply to wounds and the area affected by dermatitis , eczema , and other irritations .
3 .
Precautions for handling and storage ( a ) Always close the cap after each use .
( b ) Always keep the product out of the reach of infants .
( c ) Do not store the product in high and low temperatures .
It should also be kept out of direct sunlight .
4 .
Vulvar Cleanser ( a ) It should only be used on the vulva .
( b ) It should not be used for long periods of time .
( c ) It should be used with extreme caution when there are affected areas on the ( vulvar ) skin or the surrounding area has become contaminated .
( d ) It should not be used on children under 3 years of age .
( e ) It is not recommended for use during pregnancy and it is advised that you discontinue its use on the vulva until you deliver a baby as it may get into the eyes of the newborn baby .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Always keep the product out of the reach of infants .
Uses Uses : It keeps women ' s sensitive and precious area safe and fresh by relaxing the unpleasant smell of women .
Directions Directions : Wet your vulva thoroughly with running water ( preferably mild in temperature ) .
Apply a suitable amount ( 2 - 3 g ) evenly to the region and massage gently .
Rinse thoroughly in clean , lukewarm water .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
