DESCRIPTION Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension contains betaxolol hydrochloride , a cardiovascular ( beta1 ) adrenoceptor antagonist and pilocarpine hydrochloride , a cholinergic parasympathomimetic agent .
Betaxolol hydrochloride is a white , crystalline powder .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 1 [ p - ( cyclopropylmethoxy ) ethyl ] phenoxy ] - 3 - ( isopropylamino ) - 2 - propanol hydrochloride with an empirical formula of C18H29NO3HCl and a molecular weight of 343 . 89 .
The chemical structure of betaxolol hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pilocarpine hydrochloride is a white powder .
Its chemical name is 2 ( 3 H ) - furanone , 3 - ethyldihydro - 4 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 5 - yl ) - methyl ] - , monohydrochloride , ( 3 S - cis ) - with an empirical formula of C11H16N2O2HCl and a molecular weight of 244 . 72 .
The chemical structure of pilocarpine hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension contains the following : Active : Betaxolol hydrochloride 2 . 8 mg equivalent to 2 . 5 mg betaxolol base and pilocarpine hydrochloride 17 . 5 mg ; Preservative : Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactive : Mannitol , poly ( styrene - divinyl benzene ) sulfonic acid , carbomer 934 P , boric acid , edetate disodium , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to adjust to a pH 6 . 0 - 8 . 0 and purified water .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is provided as a two - part unit for combination by the Pharmacist .
It consists of the following components : Part I – a glass syringe containing pilocarpine hydrochloride 8 . 75 % , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( pH 5 . 0 ± 0 . 2 ) and purified water to 1 . 6 mL ; and Part II – a DROP - TAINER ® containing betaxolol 0 . 313 % , poly ( styrene - divinyl benzene ) sulfonic acid , carbomer 934 P , boric acid , mannitol , edetate disodium , benzalkonium chloride , sodium hydroxide ( pH 8 . 0 ± 0 . 2 ) and purified water to 6 . 4 mL .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is prepared by affixing a one - inch , blunt , 27 gauge cannula ( supplied ) to the syringe containing the pilocarpine hydrochloride solution and adding the entire contents of the syringe through the opening in the dropper tip to the DROP - TAINER ® containing the betaxolol suspension and mixing well .
The final pH of the combination suspension is 6 . 0 to 8 . 0 Remove Cap from DropTainer Add Contents of Syringe through Orifice in DropTainer Cap and Mix Well .
Label with a 2 - Week Expiry Period ADD CONTENTS OF PART I TO PART II AND MIX WELL IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO DISPENSING AND LABEL WITH A TWO ( 2 ) WEEK EXPIRATION DATE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Betaxolol hydrochloride , a cardioselective ( beta1 ) adrenoceptor antagonist , does not have significant membrane - stabilizing ( local anesthetic ) activity and is devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic action .
Orally administered beta - adrenergic blocking agents reduce cardiac output in healthy subjects and subjects with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor antagonists may inhibit the sympathetic stimulatory effect necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Pilocarpine is a direct acting cholinergic parasympathomimetic agent which acts through direct stimulation of muscarinic neuroreceptors and smooth muscle such as the iris and secretory glands .
Each of these compounds lowers elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) by different mechanisms of action .
Betaxolol lowers IOP predominately by decreasing aqueous humor production .
Pilocarpine lowers IOP predominantly by increasing the outflow of aqueous humor from the eye .
The efficacy and safety of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension dosed TID was evaluated in two prospective , multicenter , controlled clinical trials .
In both controlled studies , Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension dosed TID provide up to an additional 1 - 3 mmHg IOP lowering from the BETOPTIC ® - S BID baseline .
Betoptic ® Pilo has not been shown to be superior to any other beta - blocker aside from Betoptic ® - S .
The potential for systemic absorption was evaluated following topical use of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension TID .
After five and eight days of dosing with Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension TID , plasma levels of betaxolol were below the level of quantification ( 2 . 0 ng / mL ) indicating that TID dosing results in a low systemic exposure to the drug .
Plasma concentrations of pilocarpine were higher following topical ocular administration of Pilocarpine HCl Solution 4 % QID than after dosing with Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension TID .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with primary open - angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to Betoptic ® - S ( failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time ) .
It is not known whether Betoptic ® Pilo is equivalent in IOP lowering efficacy to the administration of Betoptic ® - S 0 . 25 % and pilocarpine 1 . 75 % dosed separately .
It is not known whether Betoptic ® Pilo is equivalent to other beta - blockers given in combination with pilocarpine .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia , greater than a first degree atrioventricular heart block , cardiogenic shock or patients with overt cardiac failure .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is also contraindicated in conditions where miosis is undesirable ( e . g . , peripheral anterior synechia , trauma , acute inflammatory disease of the anterior chamber , glaucoma occurring or persisting after extracapsular cataract extraction when posterior synechia may occur , and papillary block glaucoma ) .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION OR ORAL ADMINISTRATION .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
COMBINE PARTS I AND II PRIOR TO DISPENSING AND LABEL WITH A TWO ( 2 ) WEEK EXPIRATION DATE Topically applied beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma and , rarely , death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported with topical application of beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
Betaxolol has been shown to have a minor effect on heart rate and blood pressure in clinical studies .
Caution should be used in treating patients with a history of cardiac failure or heart block .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension should be discontinued at the first signs of cardiac failure .
PRECAUTIONS General Ocular .
Pilocarpine - induced miosis may cause difficulty in dark adaptation .
Patients should be advised to exercise caution in night driving and hazardous tasks performed in poor illumination .
In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate treatment objective is to re - open the angle by constriction of the pupil with a miotic agent .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension contains pilocarpine HCl 1 . 75 % , a miotic , which , while having an effect on the pupil , is unlikely to be sufficient to effectively treat an angle closure event .
Diabetes Mellitus .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
Muscle Weakness .
Beta - adrenergic blockage has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis and generalized weakness ) .
Major Surgery .
Consideration should be given to the gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to general anesthesia because of reduced ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated sympathetic reflex stimuli .
Pulmonary .
Caution should be exercised in the treatment of glaucoma patients with excessive restriction of pulmonary function .
There have been reports of asthmatic attacks and pulmonary distress during betaxolol treatment .
Although rechallenges of such patients with ophthalmic betaxolol have not adversely affected pulmonary function test results , the possibility of adverse pulmonary effects in patients sensitive to beta blockers cannot be ruled out .
Risk from Anaphylactic Reaction .
While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
Information for Patients There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
The preservative in Betoptic ® Pilo , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Betoptic ® Pilo should not be administered while wearing soft contact lenses .
Drug Interactions Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension should be observed for a potential additive effect on the intraocular pressure or on the known systemic effects of beta blockade .
Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) or calcium - channel blockers because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Betaxolol is an adrenergic blocking agent ; therefore , caution should be exercised in patients using concomitant adrenergic psychotropic drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Lifetime studies with betaxolol hydrochloride have been completed in mice at oral doses of 6 , 20 , or 60 mg / kg / day and in rats at 3 , 12 , or 48 mg / kg / day ; betaxolol hydrochloride demonstrated no carcinogenic effect .
Higher dose levels were not tested .
In a variety of in vitro bacterial and mammalian cell assays , betaxolol hydrochloride was nonmutagenic .
There have been no long - term studies done using pilocarpine in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Reproduction , teratology , and peri - and postnatal studies have been conducted with orally administered betaxolol HCl in rats and rabbits .
There was evidence of drug related post - implantation loss in rabbits and rats at dose levels above 12 mg / kg and 128 mg / kg , respectively .
Betaxolol HCl was shown not to be teratogenic , however , and there were no other adverse effects on reproduction at subtoxic dose levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of betaxolol HCl or pilocarpine in pregnant women .
Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ocular betaxolol , pilocarpine or Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is excreted in human milk ; however , oral betaxolol is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension usage , taking into account the benefit of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In multi - center controlled clinical trials of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension the adverse events reported in an approximately 5 to 20 % incidence of patients were : headaches , blurred vision , dim vision , abnormal vision , and vitreous disorder .
In the 3 - month controlled clinical trials , 12 % of patients enrolled on Betoptic ® Pilo treatment discontinued the therapy within the first two weeks of treatment because of intolerance due to adverse reactions .
In a 24 - month long - term safety study , by Month - 12 , 20 % of patients had discontinued and by the Month - 24 endpoint , 55 % of patients had discontinued Betoptic ® Pilo therapy .
The following adverse events were reported at an incidence of 1 to 4 % of patients : bronchitis , browache , constipation , dizziness , hyperemia , ocular discomfort , nausea , and pain .
The following adverse events were reported in less than 1 % of the patients : abnormal dreams , asthenia , asthma , blepharitis , conjunctival edema , lid erythema , lid margin crusting , lid spasm , palpitation , periorbital edema , photophobia , scotoma , synechiae , and tearing .
In addition , the following adverse events have been associated with ophthalmic formulations containing betaxolol or pilocarpine : Ocular : Discomfort characterized by burning and stinging upon instillation , ciliary spasm , conjunctival vascular congestion , myopia ( especially in younger individuals who have recently started therapy ) , and reduced visual acuity in poor illumination ( frequently experienced by older individuals and individuals with lens opacity ) , corneal punctate keratitis , itching , dryness of eyes , erythema , inflammation , discharge , ocular pain , decreased visual acuity and crusty lashes .
Retinal detachments have been reported with the use of miotics such as pilocarpine and cataracts may occur with prolonged use of pilocarpine .
Additional ocular events reported with other formulations of betaxolol or pilocarpine include allergic reactions , decreased corneal sensitivity , edema , anisocoria , lacrimation , and superficial keratitis ( corneal granularity ) .
Systemic : Cardiovascular ; Bradycardia , heart block , and congestive heart failure ; Pulmonary ; Pulmonary distress characterized by dyspnea , bronchospasm , thickened bronchial secretions , asthma , and respiratory failure ; Nervous System ; Insomnia , dizziness , vertigo , temporal or supraorbital headaches , depression , lethargy , and increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis ; Other : Hives , toxic epidermal necrolysis , hair loss and glossitis .
Overdosage No information is available on overdosage of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension in humans .
The symptoms which might be expected with an overdose of a systemically administered beta - 1 - adrenergic blocking agent are bradycardia , hypotension and acute cardiac failure .
Symptoms associated with pilocarpine toxicity include sweating , salivation , gastrointestinal over activity ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) , tremors , bradycardia , hypotension , atrioventricular block , mental status changes , and bronchial constriction ( in asthmatic patients ) .
Dosage and Administration One or two drops of Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension should be instilled in the affected eye ( s ) three - times daily .
How Supplied Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is supplied as two parts requiring mixing before dispensing .
Part I consists of a glass syringe containing pilocarpine hydrochloride sealed in a sterile blister pack also containing a sterile , one inch , blunt , 27 gauge cannula .
Part II consists of a DROP - TAINER ® containing betaxolol hydrochloride ophthalmic suspension .
Once Part I is added into Part II and mixed , the resulting Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension is to be used for no longer than two ( 2 ) weeks .
At this time , the reconstituted Betoptic ® Pilo Ophthalmic Suspension should be replaced .
Storage : Store at 4 – 30 ° C ( 40 – 86 ° F ) .
Shake well before using .
Discard reconstituted suspension two ( 2 ) weeks after combining .
Caution : Federal ( USA ) Law Prohibits Dispensing Without a Prescription .
U . S . Patent No ’ s .
: 4 , 252 , 984 ; 4 , 311 , 708 ; 4 , 342 , 783 ; and 4 , 911 , 920 March 26 , 1997 Alcon ® Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134
