Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 1 . 00 % Purpose Acne Treatment Purpose Acne Treatment Uses - Treats acne - Hepls prevent development of new acne blemishes Warnings For external use only When using this product - Apply to affected areas only - Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen - Do not use in or near the eyes - Using other topical acne drugs at the same time or right after use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
Only one drug should be used unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children , if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children , if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Clean skin well before applying this product - Moisten ( do not soak ) cotton with this product .
- Swipe gently over affected areas on face and body skin .
Avoid mucosal ( wet ) areas of eyes , nostrils and mouth - Follow with a sunscreen - Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start applying 2 x - a - week only , very slowly increasing until 2 x - a - day usage is achieved ( no earlier than week 8 ) .
Do not rush .
- If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , stop for 5 - 7 days and restart application frequency at 2 x - a - week , slowly increasing over several weeks .
- Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
- Before use , test a tiny amount on skin ( we omit allergens , but you may be sensitive to an ingredient that is not an allergen .
- Introduce new skin products one at a time , with at least 3 days in between .
- Do not ( re ) introduce removed portions of product or other substances into container .
Inactive ingredients Alcohol , Aqua / Water / Eau , Butylene Glycol , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Gyceryl Laurate , Hamamelis Virginiana Water , PEG - 40 Castor Oil , Sodium Phytate , Tromethamine Notes : If contact with eyes occurs , flush out with plenty of water .
This product is meant to be washed off quickly , not left on the skin for longer than a few seconds while cleansing .
Prolonged exposure without rinsing immediately may cause irritation to skin .
Stop use and consult your doctor in the unlikely event of discomfort or sensitivity .
1 ST - TIME USERS : Some first - time users may experience an initial acne break - out due to the deeper exfoliation of the pores ' inner walls .
If your pores have not been regularly cleaned at this level , existing pore cloggers are brought to the surface .
As therapy continues , this deeper - cleaned state is maintained and acne is markedly reduced .
With correct use - following instructions carefully , the slow increase in application frequency , the use of hypoallergenic , non - comedogenic and pH - appropriate support products in the Id system - as well as prevention with non - comedo - genic products such as Essence Skin - Saving Hair , Body + Bath Care , Armada Sun + Light Screens , Skintelligent Beauty Makeup , this initial reaction soon disappears .
If it does occur , stop use for 1 week and restart therapy at the beginning , with 2 x - a - week applications .
CYSTIC ACNE can be internally caused .
If you have cystic acne , consult your dermatologist as you may need additional medication and / or other management .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ID TONER VMV HYPOALLERGENICS validated hypoallergenic .
randomized , blinded , published & awarded clinical studies .
since 1979 Id ANTI - ACNE TONER Face + body Clarifier Salicylic acid + monolaurin + witch hazel ; antioxidants : green tea + rice phytic acid clarifying , smoothening + exfoliating system Validated Hypoallergenic : VH - 109 / 109 sans all common allergens , extended allergen series : North American Contact Dermatitis Group + European Surveillance System on Contact Allergies 100 % All - Types - Of - Fragrance - Free .
100 % Dye , Phthalate , Paraben + Preservative - Free .
Usage , Patch + Clinically - Tested ( in vitro + in vivo ; evidence - based : double - blind , randomized ) .
Non - Comedogenic .
Non - Drying .
For All Skin Types .
For Men + Women , 18 + .
120 mL ( 4 Fl .
Oz . )
- 120 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
