DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) of elixir contains : Phenobarbital , USP ............................................. 16 . 2 mg ( WARNING : may be habit forming ) Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP .............................. 0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP .....................................
0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP ................... 0 . 0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23 . 8 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Artificial Grape Flavor , Ethyl Alcohol , FD and C Blue # 1 , FD and C Red # 40 , Glycerin , Purified Water USP , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol Solution 70 % , and Sucrose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This drug combination provides peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATION AND USAGE FDA has classified the following indications as “ possibly ” effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS RE - PB Hyos Elixir is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in patients with acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in which phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
It is also contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , obstructive uropathy ; paralytic ileus ; myasthenia gravis ; intestinal atony ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ; or severe ulcerative colitis WARNINGS Heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids in high temperatures .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug could be harmful .
RE - PB Hyos Elixir may produce drowsiness and blurred vision .
The patient should be warned about engaging in hazardous work or activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and larger doses of the anticoagulant may be needed for optimal effect .
When phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to patients who are susceptible to addiction or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological drug dependence .
Barbiturates should be used with caution in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL : Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension .
Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with RE - PB Hyos Elixir .
It is not known whether RE - PB Hyos Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
RE - PB Hyos Elixir should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when RE - PB Hyos Elixir is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with anticholinergics and / or anticonvulsants are : dry mouth ; tachycardia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; palpitation ; blurred vision ; prolonged pupil dilation ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , hives and / or other dermal manifestations ; decreased sweating ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling and musculoskeletal pain .
Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation and drowsiness to even small doses of the drug .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Call your doctor or local Poison Control Center if overdosage is suspected .
The dosage of RE - PB Hyos Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Adults : One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms .
Pediatric patients : may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours .
Starting Dosage Body Weight q4h q6h 10 lb .
( 4 . 5 kg ) 0 . 5 mL 0 . 75 mL 20 lb .
( 9 . 1 kg ) 1 . 0 mL 1 . 5 mL 30 lb .
( 13 . 6 kg ) 1 . 5 mL 2 . 0 mL 50 lb .
( 22 . 7 kg ) 1 / 2 tsp 3 / 4 tsp 75 lb .
( 34 kg ) 3 / 4 tsp 1 tsp 100 lb .
( 45 . 4 kg ) 1 tsp 1 1 / 2 tsp HOW SUPPLIED RE - PB Hyos Elixir is a purple colored , grape flavored liquid .
NDC 21695 - 594 - 16 in bottles of 16 oz .
WARNINGS : KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Manufactured by : Great Southern Laboratories Houston , TX 77099 - 3405 Manufactured for : River ’ s Edge Pharmaceuticals , LLC Suwanee , GA 30024 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
