Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 . 0 % Purpose Acne Treatment Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • Treats acne • Clears acne blemishes • Helps prevent development of new acne blemishes Warnings For external use only When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children , if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • In the shower or bath , lather and massage gently over body skin ( not for use on facial skin ) .
• Do not scrub vigorously { a gentle massage is all you need ) , or any one area of skin for longer than 1 to 2 seconds at a time .
• For facial cleansing try Id Skin - Buffing Cleansing Scrub .
• Before use , test a tiny amount on skin ( we omit allergens , but you may be sensitive to an ingredient that is not an allergen .
• Introduce new skin products one at a time , with at least 3 days in between .
• Do not ( re ) introduce removed portions of product or other substances into container NOTE : Before using any product , test a tiny amount of it on skin ( we omit allergens , but you may be sensitive to an ingredient that is not an allergen ) .
Introduce new products one at a time , with at least 3 days in between to make sure you are not allergic .
IMPORTANT : For external use only as directed .
This product is meant to be washed off quickly , not left on the skin / body for longer than a few seconds while bathing .
Excess use or prolonged exposure without rinsing immediately may cause irritation to skin and / or urinary tract .
Do not store in extreme heat or cold .
Do not return removed portions of product or introduce water or other substances into container .
If contact with eyes occurs , flush out with plenty of water .
Stop use and consult your doctor in the unlikely event of sensitivity .
Keep out of reach of children .
If large quantities of this product are ingested , get medical help right away .
CYSTIC ACNE can be internally caused .
While these products can help , if you have cystic acne , consult your dermatologist as you may need additional medication and / or other management .
Inactive ingredients Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Aqua / Water / Eau , Sodium Hydroxide , Cocamlde DEA , Glycerin , Prunus Armeniaca ( Apricot ) Kernel , C177891 ( Titanium Dioxide ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] VMV HYPOALLERGENICS validated hypoallergenic .
randomized , blinded , published & awarded clinical studies .
since 1979 id CLARIFYING BODY SOAP exfoliating body cleanser salicylic acid + apricot kernels Validated Hypoallergenic : VH - 108 / 109 sans common allergens : NACDG + ESSCA 100 % All - Types - Of - Fragrance - Dye - Phthalate - Paraben - Preservative - SLS + SLES - Free .
Usage + Patch - Tested ( in vivo + in vitro ) .
Non - Drying .
Non - Comedogenic .
For All Skin Types .
For Men + Women , 18 + .
135 g ( 4 . 76 Oz . )
- 135 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
