1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are a glucocorticosteroid indicated for : • Treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
( ) • 1 . 1 • Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months .
( ) • 1 . 2 1 . 1 Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
1 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are indicated for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease : 9 mg once daily in the morning for up to 8 weeks .
Repeated 8 week courses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) can be given for recurring episodes of active disease .
( ) • 2 . 1 • Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease : 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months .
Continued treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
( ) • 2 . 2 2 . 1 Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease The recommended adult dosage for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon is 9 mg orally taken once daily in the morning for up to 8 weeks .
Repeated 8 week courses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) can be given for recurring episodes of active disease .
2 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease Following an 8 week course ( s ) of treatment for active disease and once the patient ’ s symptoms are controlled ( CDAI less than 150 ) , budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg orally is recommended once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months .
If symptom control is still maintained at 3 months an attempt to taper to complete cessation is recommended .
Continued treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency .
Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly , tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) treatment .
2 . 3CYP3A4 inhibitors If concomitant administration with ketoconazole , or any other CYP3A4 inhibitor , is indicated , patients should be closely monitored for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism .
Grapefruit juice , which is known to inhibit CYP3A4 , should also be avoided when taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
In these cases , reduction in the dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) should be considered [ ] .
see and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 3 mg have a red opaque cap and red opaque body , hard shell gelatin capsule filled with white to off - white enteric - coated pellets with no markings .
The capsules are axially printed with over in black ink on both the cap and body .
MYLAN7155 Capsules : 3 mg ( ) 3 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Anaphylactic reactions have occurred [ ] .
see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
( ) 4 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Since budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are a glucocorticosteroid , general warnings concerning glucocorticoids should be followed .
( ) • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression : 5 . 1 • Care is needed in patients who are transferred from glucocorticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects to corticosteroids with lower systemic availability , such as budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
( ) • Transferring patients from systemic glucocorticosteroid therapy : 5 . 2 • Potential worsening of infections ( e . g . , existing tuberculosis , fungal , bacterial , viral , or parasitic infection ) .
Use with caution in patients with these infections .
More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients .
( ) • Immunosuppression : 5 . 3 5 . 1 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When glucocorticosteroids are used chronically , systemic effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur .
Glucocorticosteroids can reduce the response of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis to stress .
In situations where patients are subject to surgery or other stress situations , supplementation with a systemic glucocorticosteroid is recommended .
Since budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are a glucocorticosteroid , general warnings concerning glucocorticoids should be followed .
5 . 2 Transferring Patients from Systemic Glucocorticosteroid Therapy Care is needed in patients who are transferred from glucocorticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects to corticosteroids with lower systemic availability , such as budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , since symptoms attributed to withdrawal of steroid therapy , including those of acute adrenal suppression or benign intracranial hypertension , may develop .
Adrenocortical function monitoring may be required in these patients and the dose of glucocorticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects should be reduced cautiously .
5 . 3 Immunosuppression Patients who are on drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infection than healthy individuals .
Chicken pox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible patients or patients on immunosuppressant doses of glucocorticosteroids .
In patients who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route and duration of glucocorticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior glucocorticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed , therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) , as appropriate , may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See prescribing information for VZIG and IG . )
If chicken pox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Glucocorticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections .
Replacement of systemic glucocorticosteroids with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may unmask allergies ( e . g . , rhinitis and eczema ) , which were previously controlled by the systemic drug .
5 . 4 Increased Systemic Glucocorticosteroid Susceptibility Reduced liver function affects the elimination of glucocorticosteroids , and increased systemic availability of oral budesonide has been demonstrated in patients with liver cirrhosis [ ] .
see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) 5 . 5 Other Glucocorticosteroid Effects Caution should be taken in patients with hypertension , diabetes mellitus , osteoporosis , peptic ulcer , glaucoma or cataracts , or with a family history of diabetes or glaucoma , or with any other condition where glucocorticosteroids may have unwanted effects .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic glucocorticosteroid use may result in the following : • Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression [ ] • see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) • Symptoms of steroid withdrawal in those patients transferring from Systemic Glucocorticosteroid Therapy [ ] • see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) • Immunosuppression [ ] • see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) • Increased Systemic Glucocorticosteroid Susceptibilty [ ] • see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) • Other Glucocorticosteroid Effects [ ] • see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are headache , respiratory infection , nausea , back pain , dyspepsia , dizziness , abdominal pain , flatulence , vomiting , fatigue , pain .
( ) 6 . 1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contactMylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 orwww . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) was evaluated in 651 patients in five short - term , active disease state studies .
They ranged in age from 17 to 74 ( mean 35 ) , 40 % were male and 97 % were white , 2 . 6 % were greater than or equal to 65 years of age .
Five hundred and twenty patients were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg ( total daily dose ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported were headache , respiratory infection , nausea , and symptoms of hypercorticism .
Clinical studies have shown that the frequency of glucocorticosteroid - associated adverse reactions was substantially reduced with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) compared with prednisolone at therapeutically equivalent doses .
Adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of the patients are listed in Table 1 : Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater Than or Equal to 5 % of the Patients in Any Treated Group Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 9 mg n = 520 Placebo n = 107 Prednisolone 40 mg n = 145 Comparator [ 1 ] n = 88 Adverse Reaction Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Headache 107 ( 21 ) 19 ( 18 ) 31 ( 21 ) 11 ( 13 ) Respiratory Infection 55 ( 11 ) 7 ( 7 ) 20 ( 14 ) 5 ( 6 ) Nausea 57 ( 11 ) 10 ( 9 ) 18 ( 12 ) 7 ( 8 ) Back Pain 36 ( 7 ) 10 ( 9 ) 17 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Dyspepsia 31 ( 6 ) 4 ( 4 ) 17 ( 12 ) 3 ( 3 ) Dizziness 38 ( 7 ) 5 ( 5 ) 18 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Abdominal Pain 32 ( 6 ) 18 ( 17 ) 6 ( 4 ) 10 ( 11 ) Flatulence 30 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 12 ( 8 ) 5 ( 6 ) Vomiting 29 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 6 ( 4 ) 6 ( 7 ) Fatigue 25 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 11 ( 8 ) 0 ( 0 ) Pain 24 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 17 ( 12 ) 2 ( 2 ) [ 1 ] This drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ’ s disease in the United States .
The safety of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) was evaluated in 233 patients in four long - term clinical trials ( 52 weeks ) .
A total of 145 patients were treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg .
A total of 8 % of budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) patients discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared with 10 % in the placebo group .
The adverse reaction profile in long - term treatment of Crohn ’ s disease was similar to that of short - term treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg in active Crohn ’ s disease .
In the long - term clinical trials , the following adverse reactions occurred in greater than or equal to 5 % of the 6 mg budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) patients and are not listed in ( Table 1 ) or by body system below : diarrhea ( 10 % ) ; sinusitis ( 8 % ) ; infection viral ( 6 % ) ; and arthralgia ( 5 % ) .
Adverse reactions , occurring in patients treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg ( total daily dose ) in short - term active disease state studies and / or budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg ( total daily dose ) long - term , with an incidence less than 5 % and greater than placebo are listed below by system organ class : • leukocytosis Blood and lymphatic system disorders : • palpitation , tachycardia Cardiac disorders : • eye abnormality , vision abnormal Eye disorders : • asthenia , chest pain , dependent edema , face edema , flu - like disorder , malaise , fever General disorders and administration site conditions : • anus disorder , Crohn ’ s disease aggravated , enteritis , epigastric pain , gastrointestinal fistula , glossitis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , tongue edema , tooth disorder Gastrointestinal disorders : • Ear infection - not otherwise specified , bronchitis , abscess , rhinitis , urinary tract infection , thrush Infections and infestations : • c - reactive protein increased , weight increased Investigations : • appetite increased , hypokalemia Metabolism and nutrition disorders : • arthritis , cramps , myalgia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : • hyperkinesia , parasthesia , tremor , vertigo , dizziness , somnolence , amnesia Nervous system disorders : • agitation , confusion , insomnia , nervousness , sleep disorder Psychiatric disorders : • dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia Renal and urinary disorders : • intermenstrual bleeding , menstrual disorder Reproductive system and breast disorders : • dyspnea , pharynx disorder Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : • acne , alopecia , dermatitis , eczema , skin disorder , sweating increased , purpura Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : • flushing , hypertension Vascular disorders : Table 2 displays the frequency and incidence of signs / symptoms of hypercorticism by active questioning of patients in short - term clinical trials .
Table 2 .
Summary and Incidence of Signs / Symptoms of Hypercorticism in Short - Term Studies Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 9 mg n = 427 Placebo n = 107 Prednisolone Taper 40 mg n = 145 Signs / Symptom Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Acne 63 ( 15 ) 14 ( 13 ) 33 ( 23 ) [ 1 ] Bruising Easily 63 ( 15 ) 12 ( 11 ) 13 ( 9 ) Moon Face 46 ( 11 ) 4 ( 4 ) 53 ( 37 ) null Swollen Ankles 32 ( 7 ) 6 ( 6 ) 13 ( 9 ) Hirsutism [ 2 ] 22 ( 5 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Buffalo Hump 6 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Skin Striae 4 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) [ 1 ] Statistically significantly different from budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg .
[ 2 ] Adverse reaction dictionary included term hair growth increased , local and hair growth increased , general .
Table 3 displays the frequency and incidence of signs / symptoms of hypercorticism by active questioning of patients in long - term clinical trials .
Table 3 .
Summary and Incidence of Symptoms of Hypercorticism in Long - Term Studies Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 3 mg n = 88 Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 6 mg n = 145 Placebo n = 143 Signs / Symptom Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Bruising Easily 4 ( 5 ) 15 ( 10 ) 5 ( 4 ) Acne 4 ( 5 ) 14 ( 10 ) 3 ( 2 ) Moon Face 3 ( 3 ) 6 ( 4 ) 0 Hirsutism 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) 1 ( 1 ) Swollen Ankles 2 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) Buffalo Hump 1 ( 1 ) 1 ( 1 ) 0 Skin Striae 2 ( 2 ) 0 0 The incidence of signs / symptoms of hypercorticism as described above in long - term clinical trials was similar to that seen in the short - term clinical trials .
A randomized , open , parallel - group multicenter safety study specifically compared the effect of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( less than 9 mg per day ) and prednisolone ( less than 40 mg per day ) on bone mineral density over 2 years when used at doses adjusted to disease severity .
Bone mineral density decreased significantly less with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) than with prednisolone in steroid - naïve patients , whereas no difference could be detected between treatment groups for steroid - dependent patients and previous steroid users .
The incidence of symptoms associated with hypercorticism was significantly higher with prednisolone treatment .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials , irrespective of relationship to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , were reported in greater than or equal to 1 % of patients : hypokalemia , leukocytosis , anemia , hematuria , pyuria , erythrocyte sedimentation rate increased , alkaline phosphatase increased , atypical neutrophils , C - reactive protein increased , and adrenal insufficiency .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Anaphylactic reactions Immune System Disorders : • Benign intracranial hypertension Nervous System Disorders : • Mood swings Psychiatric Disorders : 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant oral administration of ketoconazole ( a known inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity in the liver and in the intestinal mucosa ) caused an 8 - fold increase of the systemic exposure to oral budesonide .
If treatment with inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity ( such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , indinavir , saquinavir , erythromycin , etc . ) is indicated , reduction of the budesonide dose should be considered .
After extensive intake of grapefruit juice ( which inhibits CYP3A4 activity predominantly in the intestinal mucosa ) , the systemic exposure for oral budesonide increased about two times .
Ingestion of grapefruit or grapefruit juice should be avoided in connection with budesonide administration [ ] .
see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) • Cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , grapefruit juice ) should be avoided .
May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects .
( , , ) • 2 . 3712 . 3 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Insufficiency : Monitor patients for signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism .
( , ) • 5 . 48 . 6 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C Budesonide was teratogenic and embryocidal in rabbits and rats .
Budesonide produced fetal loss , decreased pup weights , and skeletal abnormalities at subcutaneous doses of 25 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Budesonide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Hypoadrenalism may occur in infants born of mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Such infants should be carefully observed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers The disposition of budesonide when delivered by inhalation from a dry powder inhaler at doses of 200 or 400 mcg twice daily for at least 3 months was studied in eight lactating women with asthma from 1 to 6 months postpartum .
Systemic exposure to budesonide in these women appears to be comparable to that in non - lactating women with asthma from other studies .
Breast milk obtained over eight hours post - dose revealed that the maximum budesonide concentration for the 400 and 800 mcg total daily doses was 0 . 39 and 0 . 78 nmol / L , respectively , and occurred within 45 minutes after inhalation .
The estimated oral daily dose of budesonide from breast milk to the infant is approximately 0 . 007 and 0 . 014 mcg / kg per day for the two dose regimens used in this study , which represents approximately 0 . 3 % to 1 % of the dose inhaled by the mother .
Budesonide plasma concentrations obtained from five infants at about 90 minutes after breast feeding ( and about 140 minutes after drug administration to the mother ) were below quantifiable levels ( less than 0 . 02 nmol / L in four infants and less than 0 . 04 nmol / L in one infant ) .
1 The recommended daily dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) is higher ( up to 9 mg daily ) compared with inhaled budesonide ( up to 800 mg daily ) given to mothers in the above study .
The maximum budesonide plasma concentration following a 9 mg daily dose ( in both single - and repeated - dose pharmacokinetic studies ) of oral budesonide is approximately 5 to 10 nmol / L which is up to 10 times higher than the 1 to 2 nmol / L for a 800 mg daily dose of inhaled budesonide at steady state in the above inhalation study .
Since there are no data from controlled trials on the use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) by nursing mothers or their infants , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , taking into account the clinical importance of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) to the mother .
Budesonide is secreted in human milk .
Data from budesonide delivered via dry powder inhaler indicates that the total daily oral dose of budesonide available in breast milk to the infant is approximately 0 . 3 % to 1 % of the dose inhaled by the mother .
Assuming the coefficient of extrapolation between the inhaled and oral doses is constant across all dose levels , at therapeutic doses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , budesonide exposure to the nursing child may be up to 10 times higher than that by budesonide inhalation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids , including budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , may cause a reduction of growth velocity in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Insufficiency Patients with moderate to severe liver disease should be monitored for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism .
Reducing the dose of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) should be considered in these patients [ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) 10 OVERDOSAGE Reports of acute toxicity and / or death following overdosage of glucocorticosteroids are rare .
Treatment consists of immediate gastric lavage or emesis followed by supportive and symptomatic therapy .
If glucocorticosteroids are used at excessive doses for prolonged periods , systemic glucocorticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur .
For chronic overdosage in the face of severe disease requiring continuous steroid therapy , the dosage may be reduced temporarily .
Single oral doses of 200 and 400 mg / kg were lethal in female and male mice , respectively .
The signs of acute toxicity were decreased motor activity , piloerection and generalized edema .
11 DESCRIPTION Budesonide the active ingredient of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , is a synthetic corticosteroid .
Budesonide is designated chemically as ( RS ) - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with butyraldehyde .
Budesonide is provided as a mixture of two epimers ( 22 R and 22 S ) .
The molecular formula of budesonide is C H O and its molecular weight is 430 . 5 .
Its structural formula is : 25346 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Budesonide , USP is a white to almost white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in methylene chloride , sparingly soluble in alcohol and practically insoluble in water .
Its partition coefficient between octanol and water at pH 5 is 1 . 6 x 10 ionic strength 0 . 01 .
3 Each capsule for oral administration contains 3 mg of micronized budesonide with the following inactive ingredients : acetyltributyl citrate , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , dimethicone , ethylcellulose , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer type C , polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
The imprinting ink contains the following : black iron oxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , Propylene Glycol and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Budesonide has a high topical glucocorticosteroid ( GCS ) activity and a substantial first pass elimination .
The formulation contains granules which are coated to protect dissolution in gastric juice , but which dissolve at pH greater than 5 . 5 , i . e . , normally when the granules reach the duodenum .
Thereafter , a matrix of ethylcellulose with budesonide controls the release of the drug into the intestinal lumen in a time - dependent manner .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Budesonide has a high glucocorticoid effect and a weak mineralocorticoid effect , and the affinity of budesonide to GCS receptors , which reflects the intrinsic potency of the drug , is about 200 - fold that of cortisol and 15 - fold that of prednisolone .
Treatment with systemically active GCS is associated with a suppression of endogenous cortisol concentrations and an impairment of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis function .
Markers , indirect and direct , of this are cortisol levels in plasma or urine and response to ACTH stimulation .
Plasma cortisol suppression was compared following 5 days ’ administration of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and prednisolone in a crossover study in healthy volunteers .
The mean decrease in the integrated 0 to 24 hour plasma cortisol concentration was greater ( 78 % ) with prednisolone 20 mg per day compared to 45 % with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absorption of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) seems to be complete , although C and T are variable .
Time to peak concentration varies in individual patients between 30 and 600 minutes .
Following oral administration of 9 mg of budesonide in healthy subjects , a peak plasma concentration of approximately 5 nmol / L is observed and the area under the plasma concentration time curve is approximately 30 nmol • hr / L .
The systemic availability after a single dose is higher in patients with Crohn ' s disease compared to healthy volunteers , ( 21 % vs 9 % ) but approaches that in healthy volunteers after repeated dosing .
maxmax Distribution The mean volume of distribution ( V ) of budesonide varies between 2 . 2 and 3 . 9 L / kg in healthy subjects and in patients .
Plasma protein binding is estimated to be 85 to 90 % in the concentration range 1 to 230 nmol / L , independent of gender .
The erythrocyte / plasma partition ratio at clinically relevant concentrations is about 0 . 8 .
ss Metabolism Following absorption , budesonide is subject to high first pass metabolism ( 80 % to 90 % ) .
experiments in human liver microsomes demonstrate that budesonide is rapidly and extensively biotransformed , mainly by CYP3A4 , to its two major metabolites , 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone .
The glucocorticoid activity of these metabolites is negligible ( less than 1 / 100 ) in relation to that of the parent compound .
In vitro investigations with intravenous doses in healthy subjects are in agreement with the findings and demonstrate that budesonide has a high plasma clearance , 0 . 9 to 1 . 8 L / min .
Similarly , high plasma clearance values have been shown in patients with Crohn ’ s disease .
These high plasma clearance values approach the estimated liver blood flow , and , accordingly , suggest that budesonide is a high hepatic clearance drug .
In vivoin vitro The plasma elimination half - life , t , after administration of intravenous doses ranges between 2 and 3 . 6 hours , and does not differ between healthy adults and patients with Crohn ’ s disease .
1 / 2 Excretion Budesonide is excreted in urine and feces in the form of metabolites .
After oral as well as intravenous administration of micronized [ H ] - budesonide , approximately 60 % of the recovered radioactivity is found in urine .
The major metabolites , including 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone , are mainly renally excreted , intact or in conjugated forms .
No unchanged budesonide is detected in urine .
3 Special Populations Gender No significant pharmacokinetic differences have been identified due to gender .
Hepatic Insufficiency In patients with liver cirrhosis , systemic availability of orally administered budesonide correlates with disease severity and is , on average , 2 . 5 - fold higher compared with healthy controls .
Patients with mild liver disease are minimally affected .
Patients with severe liver dysfunction were not studied .
Absorption parameters are not altered , and for the intravenous dose , no significant differences in CL or V are observed .
ss Renal Insufficiency The pharmacokinetics of budesonide in patients with renal impairment has not been studied .
Intact budesonide is not renally excreted , but metabolites are to a large extent , and might therefore reach higher levels in patients with impaired renal function .
However , these metabolites have negligible corticosteroid activity as compared with budesonide ( less than 1 / 100 ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions Budesonide is metabolized via CYP3A4 .
Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 can increase the plasma levels of budesonide several - fold .
Co - administration of ketoconazole results in an 8 - fold increase in AUC of budesonide , compared to budesonide alone .
Grapefruit juice , an inhibitor of gut mucosal CYP3A , approximately doubles the systemic exposure of oral budesonide .
Conversely , induction of CYP3A4 can result in the lowering of budesonide plasma levels .
Oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol , which are also metabolized by CYP3A4 , do not affect the pharmacokinetics of budesonide .
Budesonide does not affect the plasma levels of oral contraceptives ( i . e . , ethinyl estradiol ) [ ] .
see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) Since the dissolution of the coating of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) is pH dependent ( dissolves at pH greater than 5 . 5 ) , the release properties and uptake of the compound may be altered after treatment with drugs that change the gastrointestinal pH . However , the gastric acid inhibitory drug omeprazole , 20 mg once daily does not affect the absorption or pharmacokinetics of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
When an uncoated oral formulation of budesonide is co - administered with a daily dose of cimetidine 1 g , a slight increase in the budesonide peak plasma concentration and rate of absorption occurs , resulting in significant cortisol suppression .
Food Effects A mean delay in time to peak concentration of 2 . 5 hours is observed with the intake of a high - fat meal , with no significant differences in AUC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with budesonide were conducted in rats and mice .
In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of gliomas in male rats at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In addition , there were increased incidences of primary hepatocellular tumors in male rats at 25 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 023 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No tumorigenicity was seen in female rats at oral doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In an additional 2 - year study in male Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused no gliomas at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
The concurrent reference corticosteroids ( prednisolone and triamcinolone acetonide ) showed similar findings .
In a 91 - week study in mice , budesonide caused no treatment - related carcinogenicity at oral doses up to 200 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
Budesonide was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell forward gene mutation ( TK ) test , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , the sex - linked recessive lethality test , the rat hepatocyte UDS test and the mouse micronucleus test .
+ / - Drosophila melanogaster In rats , budesonide had no effect on fertility at subcutaneous doses up to 80 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 07 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a decrease in prenatal viability and viability in pups at birth and during lactation , along with a decrease in maternal body - weight gain , at subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 02 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No such effects were noted at 5 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 005 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) were evaluated in 994 patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease of the ileum and / or ascending colon in five randomized and double - blind studies .
The study patients ranged in age from 17 to 85 ( mean 35 ) , 40 % were male and 97 % were white .
Of the 651 patients treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , 17 ( 2 . 6 % ) were greater than or equal to 65 years of age and none were greater than 74 years of age .
The Crohn ’ s Disease Activity Index ( CDAI ) was the main clinical assessment used for determining efficacy in these five studies .
The CDAI is a validated index based on subjective aspects rated by the patient ( frequency of liquid or very soft stools , abdominal pain rating and general well - being ) and objective observations ( number of extraintestinal symptoms , need for antidiarrheal drugs , presence of abdominal mass , body weight and hematocrit ) .
Clinical improvement , defined as a CDAI score of less than or equal to 150 assessed after 8 weeks of treatment , was the primary efficacy variable in these five comparative efficacy studies of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Safety assessments in these studies included monitoring of adverse reactions .
A checklist of potential symptoms of hypercorticism was used .
One study ( Study 1 ) compared the safety and efficacy of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily in the morning to a comparator .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 272 .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily resulted in a significantly higher clinical improvement rate at Week 8 than the comparator .
See Table 4 .
Table 4 .
Clinical Improvement Rates ( CDAI less than or equal to 150 ) After 8 Weeks of TreatmentClinical Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) Comparator [ 1 ] Placebo Prednisolone Study 9 mg Daily 4 . 5 mg Twice Daily 1 62 / 91 ( 69 % ) 37 / 83 ( 45 % ) 2 31 / 61 ( 51 % ) 13 / 64 ( 20 % ) 3 38 / 79 ( 48 % ) 41 / 78 ( 53 % ) 13 / 40 ( 33 % ) 4 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 25 / 60 ( 42 % ) 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 5 45 / 86 ( 52 % ) 56 / 85 ( 65 % ) [ 1 ] This drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ’ s disease in the United States .
Two placebo - controlled clinical trials ( Studies 2 and 3 ) were conducted .
Study 2 involved 258 patients and tested the effects of graded doses of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ( 1 . 5 mg twice daily , 4 . 5 mg twice daily , or 7 . 5 mg twice daily ) versus placebo .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 290 .
The 3 mg per day dose level ( data not shown ) could not be differentiated from placebo .
The 9 mg per day arm was statistically different from placebo ( Table 4 ) , while no additional benefit was seen when the daily budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) dose was increased to 15 mg per day ( data not shown ) .
In Study 3 , the median CDAI at baseline was 263 .
Neither 9 mg daily nor 4 . 5 mg twice daily budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) dose levels was statistically different from placebo ( Table 4 ) .
Two clinical trials ( Studies 4 and 5 ) compared budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) with oral prednisolone ( initial dose 40 mg per day ) .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 277 .
Equal clinical improvement rates ( 60 % ) were seen in the budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 9 mg daily and the prednisolone groups in Study 4 .
In Study 5 , 13 % fewer patients in the budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) group experienced clinical improvement than in the prednisolone group ( no statistical difference ) ( Table 4 ) .
The proportion of patients with normal plasma cortisol values ( greater than 150 nmol / L ) was significantly higher in the budesonide capsule ( enteric coated ) groups in both trials ( 60 % to 66 % ) than in the prednisolone groups ( 26 % to 28 % ) at Week 8 .
The efficacy and safety of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) for maintenance of clinical remission were evaluated in four double - blind , placebo - controlled , 12 - month trials in which 380 patients were randomized and treated once daily with 3 mg or 6 mg budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) or placebo .
Patients ranged in age from 18 to 73 ( mean 37 ) years .
Sixty percent of the patients were female and 99 % were Caucasian .
The mean CDAI at entry was 96 .
Among the four clinical trials , approximately 75 % of the patients enrolled had exclusively ileal disease .
Colonoscopy was not performed following treatment .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day prolonged the time to relapse , defined as an increase in CDAI of at least 60 units to a total score greater than 150 or withdrawal due to disease deterioration .
The median time to relapse in the pooled population of the four studies was 154 days for patients taking placebo , and 268 days for patients taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) 6 mg per day reduced the proportion of patients with loss of symptom control relative to placebo in the pooled population for the four studies at 3 months ( 28 % vs . 45 % for placebo ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 68151 - 4374 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 CAPSULES 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION “ See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( ) ” Patient Information Patients being treated with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid the patient in the safe and effective use of the medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
For proper use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and to attain maximum improvement , the patient should read and follow the accompanying FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
17 . 1 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Patients should be advised that budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause systemic glucocorticosteroid effects of hypercorticism and adrenal suppression .
Patients should taper slowly from systemic glucocorticosteroids if transferring to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) [ ] .
see and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ( 5 . 2 ) 17 . 2 Immunosuppression Patients who are on immunosuppressant doses of glucocorticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles and , if exposed , to consult their physician without delay .
Patients should be informed of potential worsening of existing tuberculosis , fungal , bacterial , viral or parasitic infections [ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 17 . 3 How to Take Budesonide Capsules ( enteric coated ) Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) should be swallowed whole and NOT CHEWED OR BROKEN .
Patients should be advised to avoid the consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of their budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) therapy .
PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET BUDESONIDE CAPSULES ( enteric coated ) ( bue des ' oh nide ) 3 mg Read the Patient Information that comes with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are a prescription glucocorticosteroid medicine used in people with mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease that affects part of the small intestine ( ileum ) and part of the large intestine ( ascending colon ) : • to treat active Crohn ’ s disease • • to help keep symptoms from coming back for up to 3 months .
• It is not known if budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Do not take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) if : • you are allergic to budesonide or any of the ingredients in budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
: Before you take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) tell your healthcare provider if you • have liver problems • • are planning to have surgery • • have chicken pox or measles or have recently been near anyone with chicken pox or measles • • have or had a family history of diabetes , cataracts or glaucoma • • have or had tuberculosis • • have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • • have decreased bone mineral density ( osteoporosis ) • • stomach ulcers • • any other medical condition • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Budesonide can pass into breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
• including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • a glucocorticosteroid medicine • • medicines that suppress your immune system ( immunosuppressant ) • • ketoconazale or other medicines that affect how your liver works .
• Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above .
How should I take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• • Your healthcare provider will tell you how many budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) to take .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• • Take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in the morning .
• • Take budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) whole .
Do not chew or crush budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) before swallowing .
• What should I avoid while taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Do not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice while taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice can increase the level of budesonide in your blood .
• What are the possible side effects of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Long - time use of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) can cause you to have too much glucocorticosteroid medicine in your blood .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of hypercorticism : • Effects of having too much glucocorticosteroid medicine in your blood ( hypercorticism ) .
• acne o • bruise easily o • rounding of your face ( moon face ) o • ankle swelling o • thicker or more hair on your body and face o • a fatty pad or hump between your shoulders ( buffalo hump ) o • pink or purple stretch marks on the skin of your abdomen , thighs , breasts and arms o • When budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) are taken for a long period of time ( chronic use ) , adrenal suppression can happen .
This is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Symptoms of adrenal suppression include : tiredness , weakness , nausea and vomiting and low blood pressure .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are under stress or have any symptoms of adrenal suppression during treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• Adrenal suppression .
• Budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) weaken your immune system .
Taking medicines that weaken your immune system makes you more likely to get infections .
Avoid contact with people who have contagious diseases such as chicken pox or measles , while taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Tell your healthcare provider about any signs or symptoms of infection during treatment with budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) , including : • Immune system effects and a higher chance of infections .
• fever o • pain o • aches o • chills o • feeling tired o • nausea and vomiting o • If you take certain other glucocorticosteroid medicines to treat allergies , switching to budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) may cause your allergies to come back .
These allergies may include eczema ( a skin disease ) or rhinitis ( inflammation inside your nose ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if any of your allergies become worse while taking budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
• Worsening of allergies .
The most common side effects of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) include : • headache • • infection in your air passages ( respiratory infection ) • • back pain • • upset stomach • • dizziness • • abdominal pain • • excessive stomach or intestinal gas • • diarrhea • • sinus infection • • viral infection • • joint pain • Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
How should I store budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
• Store budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• • Keep budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) in a tightly closed container .
• Keep budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) and all medicines out of reach from children .
General information about budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) that is written for health professionals .
For more information call Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
What are the ingredients in budesonide capsules ( enteric coated ) ?
Active ingredient : budesonide , USP Inactive ingredients : acetyltributyl citrate , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , dimethicone , ethylcellulose , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , gelatin , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer type C , polysorbate 80 , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
The imprinting ink contains the following : black iron oxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , Propylene Glycol and shellac glaze .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
REVISED FEBRUARY 2014 BUDE : R2ppt Budsonide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
