DESCRIPTION : Each Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablet for oral administration contains : Butalbital , USP ..................... 50 mg Aspirin , USP ....................... 325 mg Caffeine , USP ....................... 40 mg Butalbital , 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutylbarbituric acid , a white , odorless , crystalline powder having a slightly bitter taste , is a short to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C11H16N2O3 M . W . 224 . 26 Aspirin , salicylic acid acetate , is a non - opiate analgesic , anti - inflammatory and antipyretic agent .
It occurs as a white , crystalline tabular or needle - like powder and is odorless or has a faint odor .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H8O4 M . W . 180 . 16 Caffeine , 1 , 3 , 7 , - trimethylxanthine , is a central nervous system stimulant which occurs as a white powder or white glistening needles .
It also has a bitter taste .
Its structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C8H10N4O2 M . W . 194 . 19 Inactive Ingredients : Corn Starch , Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate and Talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacologically , Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets combine the analgesic properties of aspirin with the anxiolytic and muscle relaxant properties of butalbital .
The clinical effectiveness of a product containing butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine in tension headache has been established in double - blind , placebo - controlled , multiclinic trials .
A factorial design study compared the combination product with each of its major components .
This study demonstrated that each component contributes to the efficacy of the combination product in the treatment of the target symptoms of tension headache ( headache pain , psychic tension , and muscle contraction in the head , neck , and shoulder region ) .
For each symptom and the symptom complex as a whole , the product containing butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine was shown to have significantly superior clinical effects to either of the major components alone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Butalbital , Aspirin and Caffeine Tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to aspirin , caffeine or barbiturates .
Patients with porphyria .
PRECAUTIONS : 1 .
General : Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets should be used with caution in patients with certain medical problems , including those with a history of asthma , allergies and nasal polyps .
Also , the drug must be prescribed carefully for patients with hemophilia or other bleeding problems , peptic ulcer , renal impairment , or a history of drug abuse or dependence .
2 .
Information for Patients : Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
3 .
Drug Interactions : Patients receiving narcotic analgesics , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets may exhibit additive CNS depressant effects .
When combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
DRUGS EFFECT Aspirin w / anti - inflammatory agents Increased ulcerogenic effects .
Butalbital w / coumarin anticoagulants Decreased effect of anticoagulant because of increased metabolism resulting from enzyme induction .
Butalbital w / tricyclic antidepressants Decreased blood levels of the antidepressant .
4 .
Usage in Pregnancy : Adequate studies have not been performed in animals to determine whether this drug affects fertility in males or females , has teratogenic potential or has other adverse effects on the fetus .
While there are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women , over twenty years of marketing and clinical experience does not include any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
Although there is no clearly defined risk , such experience cannot exclude the possibility of infrequent or subtle damage to the human fetus .
Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets should be used in pregnant women only when clearly needed .
5 .
Nursing Mothers : The effects of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets on infants of nursing mothers are not known .
Salicylates and barbiturates are excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers .
The serum levels in infants are believed to be insignificant with therapeutic doses .
6 .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions are drowsiness and dizziness .
Less frequent adverse reactions are lightheadedness and gastrointestinal disturbances including nausea , vomiting , and flatulence .
Mental confusion or depression can occur due to intolerance or overdosage of butalbital .
Several cases of dermatological reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme have been reported .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are classified as a Schedule III controlled substance .
Prolonged use of barbiturates can produce drug dependence , characterized by psychic dependence , and less frequently , physical dependence and tolerance .
The abuse liability of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are similar to that of other barbiturate - containing drug combinations .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing medication for patients with a known propensity for taking excessive quantities of drugs , which is not uncommon in patients with chronic tension headache .
OVERDOSAGE : Symptoms : The toxic effects of acute overdosage of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablets are attributable mainly to its barbiturate component , and , to a lesser extent , aspirin .
Because toxic effects of caffeine occur in very high dosages only , the possibility of significant caffeine toxicity from Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Tablet overdosage in unlikely .
Symptoms attributable to acute barbiturate poisoning include drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; shock .
Symptoms attributable to acute aspirin poisoning include hyperpnea ; acid - base disturbances with development of metabolic acidosis ; vomiting and abdominal pain ; tinnitus ; hyperthermia ; hypoprothrombinemia ; restlessness ; delirium ; convulsions .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , and delirium ; tachycardia and extrasystoles .
Treatment : Treatment consists primarily of management of barbiturate intoxication and the correction of the acid - base imbalance due to salicylism .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically or with emetics in the conscious patient .
Gastric lavage may be used if the pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes are present and if less than four hours have elapsed since ingestion .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and when necessary to provide assisted respiration .
Diuresis , alkalinization of the urine , and correction of electrolyte disturbances should be accomplished through administration of intravenous fluids such as 1 % sodium bicarbonate in 5 % dextrose injection .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
Correction of hypotension may require the administration of norepinephrine bitartrate of phenylephrine hydrochloride by intravenous infusion .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or exchange transfusion may be lifesaving .
Hypoprothrombinemia should be treated with Vitamin K , intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Oral : One or two tablets every four hours as needed .
Do not exceed 6 tablets per day .
Medication should be taken with food or a full glass of water or milk to lessen gastric irritation caused by aspirin .
HOW SUPPLIED : Butalbital , Aspirin and Caffeine Tablets , USP 50 mg / 325 mg / 40 mg : White , round , unscored tablets ; imprinted “ West - ward 785 ” .
Bottles of 60 tablets , NDC 21695 - 354 - 60 .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised April 2003 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
