Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each bottle when mixed with packet ) Povidone - iodine 0 . 3 % Purpose Antimicrobial Use for temporary relief of minor vaginal irritation or itching Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use • if you have an iodine sensitivity • to prevent pregnancy • if you are trying to become pregnant or during pregnancy • if you have symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) , such as lower abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , and / or a pus - like yellow cervical discharge ; see a doctor right away • if you have symptoms of sexually transmitted • diseases ( STD ) , such as vaginal discharge of an unusual amount , color , or odor , painful and / or frequent urination , genital sores or ulcers ; see a doctor right away to self - treat or prevent an STD or PID after exposure to an STD Stop use and ask a doctor if • douching results in pain , soreness , swelling , redness , itching , excessive dryness , or irritation • symptoms continue after 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Preparing the douche • remove sanitary overwrap and unscrew nozzle cap • carefully open the medicated packet and pour into the douche bottle .
The contents can stain certain materials .
• screw the nozzle cap back onto the bottle • swirl bottle gently to mix • after mixing , use within one hour When and how to douche • use once daily for seven days , even if symptoms disappear sooner • gently insert nozzle into vagina , no more than 3 inches , and slowly squeeze bottle • do not close the vaginal opening ; douching solution should flow freely out of vagina • use while sitting on the toilet , in the tub , or while standing in the shower Other information • an association has been reported between douching and pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) , ectopic pregnancy , and infertility .
It is not currently known whether douching is causally related to these conditions , but women should be aware of this association .
• see a doctor right away if you have symptoms of PID or STD • bottle and douche concentrate packet sealed for your protection .
Do not use if seal under cap is torn or missing , or packet is leaking .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , edetate disodium , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium lauryl sulfate , trisodium phosphate Questions ?
1 - 866 - 323 - 0107 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 133 mL Kit Carton bella flore douche medicated pH - Balanced Relieves Minor Vaginal Irritation & Itching * Compare To Summer ' s Eve ® 2 Two Unit 4 . 5 fl .
oz .
( 133 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
