DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION : The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primary synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
HybriSil ™ Topical Silicone Gel contains methylprednisolone acetate , USP ( CAS 53 - 36 - 1 ) Chemical Name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - 6 - methyl - , ( 6α , 11ß ) - , 11ß , 17 , 21 - Trihydroxy - 6α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate .
It has a molecular formula of C24H32O6 and a molecular weight of 416 . 51 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains : Methylprednisolone acetate 1 . 0 % in a base of : silicone cross - polymers , alcohol , cyclomethicones , propylene glycol , PEG - 12 glyceryl dimyristate , and benzyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstriction assays are used to compare and predict potencies and or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictive potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other diseases processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HybriSil ™ topical gel is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses , including those associated with the formation of scar tissue .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of more potent steroid use over large surface areas , prolonged use and addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of applications , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionately larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) This medication contains alcohol .
It may produce irritation or burning sensations on open lesions .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
As with any topical corticosteroid product , prolonged use may produce atrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues .
When used on intertriginous or flexor areas , or on the face , this may occur even with short - term use .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it is prescribed .
3 .
Treated skin areas should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The urinary free cortisol test and the ACTH suppression test may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect of topical corticosteroids on fertility .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone may have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients in large amounts or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestation of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , Itching , Irritation , Dryness , Folliculitis , Hypertrichosis , Acneiform eruptions , Hypopigmentation , Perioral dermatitis , Allergic contract dermatitis , Maceration of the skin , Secondary infection , Skin atrophy , Striae and Miliaria .
Overdosage topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION HybriSil ™ ( methylprednisolone acetate 1 % ) silicone gel should be applied to the affected area as a thin film two or three times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressings may be used for management of recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
CAUTION If medication accidentally gets in the eyes , wash thoroughly with water and contact a physician immediately .
Keep out of the reach of children .
HOW SUPPLIED in 30 gm bottle with pump .
Prescription only .
US Patents : Pending .
Revised April 2011 Image : Bottle Label label _ cd01 .
jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Image : Carton Label uc _ CD01 .
jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
