DESCRIPTION Chemical name : 2 - formyl - 1 - methylpyridinium chloride oxime .
Available in the United States as PROTOPAM Chloride for Injection ( PROTOPAM Chloride ) , pralidoxime chloride is frequently referred to as 2 - PAM Chloride .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralidoxime chloride occurs as an odorless , white , nonhygroscopic , crystalline powder which is soluble in water .
Stable in air , it melts between 215º and 225º C , with decomposition .
The specific activity of the drug resides in the 2 - formyl - 1 - methylpyridinium ion and is independent of the particular salt employed .
The chloride is preferred because of physiologic compatibility , excellent water solubility at all temperatures , and high potency per gram , due to its low molecular weight .
Pralidoxime chloride is a cholinesterase reactivator .
PROTOPAM Chloride for intravenous injection or infusion is prepared by cryo - desiccation .
Each vial contains 1000 mg of sterile pralidoxime chloride , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , to be reconstituted with 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
The pH of the reconstituted solution is 3 . 5 to 4 . 5 .
Intramuscular or subcutaneous injection may be used when intravenous injection is not feasible .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal action of pralidoxime chloride is to reactivate cholinesterase ( mainly outside of the central nervous system ) which has been inactivated by phosphorylation due to an organophosphate pesticide or related compound .
The destruction of accumulated acetylcholine can then proceed , and neuromuscular junctions will again function normally .
Pralidoxime chloride also slows the process of “ aging ” of phosphorylated cholinesterase to a nonreactivatable form , and detoxifies certain organophosphates by direct chemical reaction .
The drug has its most critical effect in relieving paralysis of the muscles of respiration .
Because pralidoxime chloride is less effective in relieving depression of the respiratory center , atropine is always required concomitantly to block the effect of accumulated acetylcholine at this site .
Pralidoxime chloride relieves muscarinic signs and symptoms , salivation , bronchospasm , etc . , but this action is relatively unimportant since atropine is adequate for this purpose .
PROTOPAM Chloride has been studied in animals as an antidote against numerous organophosphate pesticides , chemicals , and drugs ( see Animal Pharmacology and Toxicology ) .
Regardless of whether or not animal studies suggest that the organophosphate poison to which a particular patient has been exposed is amenable to treatment with pralidoxime chloride , the use of pralidoxime chloride should , nevertheless , be considered in any life - threatening situation resulting from poisoning by these compounds , since the limited and arbitrary conditions of pharmacologic screening do not always accurately reflect the usefulness of pralidoxime chloride in the clinical situation .
CLINICAL STUDIES There are no adequate and well controlled clinical studies that establish the effectiveness of pralidoxime chloride as a treatment for poisoning with organophosphates having anticholinesterase activity .
However , its use has been considered to be successful against poisoning with numerous pesticides , chemicals , and drugs .
Pharmacokinetics Animal studies suggest that the minimum therapeutic concentration of pralidoxime in plasma is 4 µg / mL ; this level is reached in about 16 minutes after a single injection of 600 mg pralidoxime chloride .
In one study of healthy adult volunteers and patients self - poisoned with organophosphate compounds , a single intramuscular injection of 1000 mg of pralidoxime chloride resulted in mean peak plasma levels of 7 . 5 ± 1 . 7 µg / mL and 9 . 9 ± 2 . 4 µg / mL , respectively .
Time to reach the mean peak plasma levels in both groups was similar , 34 minutes in healthy adults and 33 minutes in poisoned patients .
Mean half - life was about 3 hours in both groups .
Some evidence suggests that a loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion of pralidoxime chloride may maintain therapeutic levels longer than short intermittent infusion therapy .
In a cross - over study of seven healthy adults ( 18 – 50 years ) a short intravenous infusion dose of 16 mg / kg over 30 minutes was compared to an intravenous loading dose of 4 mg / kg over 15 minutes , followed by 3 . 2 mg / kg / hr for 3 . 75 hours ( for a total dose of 16 mg / kg ) .
Results showed that the mean time over which plasma levels were maintained above 4 µg / mL was prolonged in the volunteers who received a loading dose followed by continuous infusion as compared to those who received short infusion therapy ( 257 . 5 ± 50 . 5 min vs . 118 . 0 ± 52 . 1 min ) .
Use of continuous intravenous infusion in adult patients with organophosphate poisoning has been described in several case reports , with and without loading doses .
Infusion rates ranged from 400 – 600 mg / hr .
In one case the blood levels were 11 . 6 – 13 . 7 µg / mL when given 400 mg / hr over 5 days ( measured at 5 , 10 and 18 hours ) .
In another case following an initial loading dose of 1000 mg , blood levels were 11 . 79 µg / mL when given 500 mg / hr and 17 . 26 µg / mL when given 600 mg / hr .
In the latter case the pralidoxime elimination half - life was 4 hours .
In two other cases blood levels were not measured .
Pralidoxime chloride is distributed throughout the extracellular water ; its apparent volume of distribution at steady state has been reported to range from 0 . 60 to 2 . 7 L / kg .
Pralidoxime chloride is not bound to plasma protein .
Pralidoxime chloride is relatively short acting and repeated doses may be needed , unless continuous intravenous infusion is selected .
Simulations suggest that after a dose of 1000 mg given intravenously , concentrations fall below 4 µg / mL in about 1 . 5 hours .
The short duration of action of pralidoxime chloride and the necessity for repeated doses should be considered especially where there is any evidence of continuing absorption of the poison .
The apparent half - life of pralidoxime chloride is 74 to 77 minutes .
The drug is rapidly excreted in the urine by renal tubular secretion , partly unchanged , and partly as a metabolite produced by the liver .
After intramuscular administration of 1000 mg of pralidoxime chloride , the renal clearance has been reported to be 7 . 2 ± 2 . 9 mL / min / kg in healthy volunteers and 3 . 6 ± 1 . 5 mL / min / kg in organophosphate - poisoned patients .
In one study of 11 organophosphate - poisoned pediatric patients ( age , 0 . 8 to 18 years ) , an intravenous loading dose of 15 - 50 mg / kg ( mean 29 mg / kg ) of pralidoxime chloride followed by a continuous infusion of 10 - 16 mg / kg / hr ( mean 14 mg / kg / hr ) over 12 to 43 hours ( mean 27 ± 8 hours ) resulted in an average steady state plasma concentration of 22 . 2 mg / L ( 6 . 9 to 47 . 4 mg / L ) and an average body clearance of 0 . 88 L / kg / hr ( 0 . 28 to 2 . 20 L / kg / hr ) .
After the continuous infusion was discontinued , determinations of the apparent volume of distribution and half - life ranged from 1 . 7 to 13 . 8 L / kg and from 2 . 4 to 5 . 3 hours , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROTOPAM Chloride is indicated as an antidote : • 1 .
In the treatment of poisoning due to those pesticides and chemicals ( e . g . , nerve agents ) of the organophosphate class which have anticholinesterase activity and • 2 .
In the control of overdosage by anticholinesterase drugs used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
The principal indications for the use of PROTOPAM Chloride are muscle weakness and respiratory depression .
In severe poisoning , respiratory depression may be due to muscle weakness .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known absolute contraindications for the use of PROTOPAM Chloride ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Relative contraindications include known hypersensitivity to the drug and other situations in which the risk of its use clearly outweighs possible benefit .
WARNINGS PROTOPAM Chloride is not effective in the treatment of poisoning due to phosphorus , inorganic phosphates , or organophosphates not having anticholinesterase activity .
PROTOPAM Chloride is not indicated as an antidote for intoxication by pesticides of the carbamate class since it may increase the toxicity of carbaryl .
PRECAUTIONS General PROTOPAM Chloride has been well tolerated in most cases , but it must be remembered that the desperate condition of the organophosphate - poisoned patient will generally mask such minor signs and symptoms as have been noted in normal subjects .
Intravenous administration of PROTOPAM Chloride should be carried out slowly and , preferably , by continuous or intermittent infusion , since temporary worsening of cholinergic manifestations ( i . e . tachycardia , cardiac arrest , laryngospasm , and muscle rigidity or paralysis ) may occur if PROTOPAM Chloride is infused too rapidly .
The intermittent infusion rate should not exceed 200 mg / minute .
If intravenous administration is not feasible , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection should be used ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
PROTOPAM Chloride should be used with great caution in treating organophosphate overdosage in cases of myasthenia gravis since it may precipitate a myasthenic crisis .
Because pralidoxime is excreted in the urine , a decrease in renal function will result in increased blood levels of the drug .
Thus , the dosage of PROTOPAM Chloride should be reduced in the presence of renal insufficiency .
Laboratory Tests Treatment of organophosphate poisoning should be instituted without waiting for the results of laboratory tests .
Red blood cell , plasma cholinesterase , and urinary paranitrophenol measurements ( in the case of parathion exposure ) may be helpful in confirming the diagnosis and following the course of the illness , although such tests may be normal in the face of clinically significant organophosphate poisoning .
A reduction in red blood cell cholinesterase concentration to below 50 % of normal has been seen only with organophosphate ester poisoning .
Drug Interactions When atropine and pralidoxime chloride are used together , the signs of atropinization ( flushing , mydriasis , tachycardia , dryness of the mouth and nose ) may occur earlier than might be expected when atropine is used alone .
This is especially true if the total dose of atropine has been large and the administration of pralidoxime chloride has been delayed .
The following precautions should be kept in mind in the treatment of anticholinesterase poisoning , although they do not bear directly on the use of pralidoxime chloride : since barbiturates are potentiated by the anticholinesterases , they should be used cautiously in the treatment of convulsions ; morphine , theophylline , aminophylline , reserpine , and phenothiazine - type tranquilizers should be avoided in patients with organophosphate poisoning .
Prolonged paralysis has been reported in patients when succinylcholine is given with drugs having anticholinesterase activity ; therefore , it should be used with caution .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Because pralidoxime chloride is indicated for short - term emergency use only , no investigations of its potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility have been conducted by the manufacturer , or reported in the literature .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pralidoxime chloride .
It is also not known whether pralidoxime chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Pralidoxime chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pralidoxime chloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well - controlled clinical trials that establish the effectiveness of pralidoxime chloride in pediatric patients .
Efficacy has been extrapolated from the adult population and is supported by nonclinical studies , pharmacokinetic studies in adults and experience in the pediatric population ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As in adults , laryngospasm , cardiac arrest , tachycardia , and muscle rigidity or paralysis have been reported following rapid intravenous injection .
Muscle fasciculations , apnea , and convulsions have also been reported .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of PROTOPAM Chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Forty to 60 minutes after intramuscular injection , mild to moderate pain may be experienced at the site of injection .
Pralidoxime chloride may cause blurred vision , diplopia and impaired accommodation , dizziness , headache , drowsiness , nausea , tachycardia , increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure , hyperventilation , and muscular weakness when given parenterally to normal volunteers who have not been exposed to anticholinesterase poisons .
In patients , it is very difficult to differentiate the toxic effects produced by atropine or the organophosphate compounds from those of the drug .
Elevations in SGOT and / or SGPT enzyme levels were observed in 1 of 6 normal volunteers given 1200 mg of pralidoxime chloride intramuscularly , and in 4 of 6 volunteers given 1800 mg intramuscularly .
Levels returned to normal in about 2 weeks .
Transient elevations in creatine phosphokinase were observed in all normal volunteers given the drug .
When atropine and pralidoxime chloride are used together , the signs of atropinization may occur earlier than might be expected when atropine is used alone .
This is especially true if the total dose of atropine has been large and the administration of pralidoxime chloride has been delayed .
Excitement and manic behavior immediately following recovery of consciousness have been reported in several cases .
However , similar behavior has occurred in cases of organophosphate poisoning that were not treated with pralidoxime chloride .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE PROTOPAM Chloride is not subject to abuse and possesses no known potential for dependence .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of Overdosage Observed in normal subjects only : dizziness , blurred vision , diplopia , headache , impaired accommodation , nausea , slight tachycardia .
In therapy , it has been difficult to differentiate side effects due to the drug from those due to the effects of the poison .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Organophosphate Poisoning Treatment should include general supportive care , atropinization , and decontamination , in addition to the use of PROTOPAM Chloride .
Treatment is most effective if initiated immediately after poisoning .
Administration of PROTOPAM Chloride should be carried out slowly and , preferably , by infusion .
If intravenous administration is not feasible , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection should be used .
Generally , little is accomplished if PROTOPAM Chloride is given more than 36 hours after termination of exposure to the poison .
When the poison has been ingested , it is particularly important to take into account the likelihood of continuing absorption from the lower bowel since this constitutes new exposure and fatal relapses have been reported after initial improvement .
In such cases , additional doses of PROTOPAM Chloride may be needed every three to eight hours .
In effect , the patient should be “ titrated ” with PROTOPAM Chloride as long as signs of poisoning recur .
As in all cases of organophosphate poisoning , care should be taken to keep the patient under observation for at least 48 to 72 hours .
If dermal exposure has occurred , clothing should be removed and the hair and skin washed thoroughly with sodium bicarbonate or alcohol as soon as possible .
Supportive care , including airway management , respiratory and cardiovascular support , correction of metabolic abnormalities , and seizure control , may be necessary in cases of severe organophosphate poisoning .
Atropine should be given as soon as possible after hypoxemia is improved .
Atropine should not be given in the presence of significant hypoxia due to the risk of atropine - induced ventricular fibrillation .
In adults , atropine may be given intravenously in doses of 2 to 4 mg .
This should be repeated at 5 - to 10 - minute intervals until full atropinization ( secretions are inhibited ) or signs of atropine toxicity appear ( delirium , hyperthermia , muscle twitching ) .
Some degree of atropinization should be maintained for at least 48 hours , and until any depressed blood cholinesterase activity is reversed .
Use of morphine , theophylline , aminophylline , reserpine , and phenothiazine - type tranquilizers should be avoided in patients with organophosphate poisoning ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Prolonged paralysis has been reported in patients when succinylcholine is given with drugs having anticholinesterase activity ; therefore , it should be used with caution .
After the effects of atropine become apparent , PROTOPAM Chloride may be administered .
Symptoms Of Nerve Agent And Insecticide Poisoning PROTOPAM Chloride dosing is based , in part , on the severity of symptoms of nerve agent intoxication .
These symptoms include the following : MILD symptoms : • • Blurred vision and sore eyes • • Teary eyes * • • Runny nose * • • Increased salivation such as sudden drooling * • • Chest tightness or difficulty breathing • • Tremors throughout the body or muscular twitching • • Nausea and vomiting • • Involuntary respiratory secretions SEVERE symptoms : • • Strange or confused behavior • • Severe difficulty breathing or respiratory secretions • • Severe muscular twitching and general weakness ** • • Involuntary urination and defecation * • • Convulsions • • Unconsciousness Symptoms in INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN : * These symptoms are sometimes observed in healthy infants and young children .
In this age group , these symptoms are less reliable than other symptoms listed .
Symptoms must be considered collectively when nerve agent or pesticide exposure is known or suspected .
** Infants may become drowsy or unconscious , with muscle floppiness rather than muscle twitching , soon after exposure to nerve agents or pesticides .
ADULT DOSING ADULT INTRAVENOUS DOSING : Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions on reconstitution and dilution of PROTOPAM Chloride that result in a 10 - 20 mg / mL solution for intravenous infusion .
Inject an initial dose of 1000 to 2000 mg of PROTOPAM Chloride , preferably as an infusion in 100 mL of normal saline , over a 15 - to 30 - minute period .
If this is not practical or if pulmonary edema is present , the dose should be given slowly ( over not less than five minutes ) by intravenous injection , as a 50 mg / mL solution in water ( e . g . , 1000 mg in 20 mL ) .
A second dose of 1000 to 2000 mg may be indicated after about one hour if muscle weakness has not been relieved .
Additional doses may be given every 10 - 12 hours if muscle weakness persists .
Intravenous administration of PROTOPAM Chloride should be carried out slowly and , preferably , by continuous or intermittent infusion , since temporary worsening of cholinergic manifestations ( i . e . tachycardia , cardiac arrest , laryngospasm , and muscle rigidity or paralysis ) may occur if PROTOPAM Chloride is infused too rapidly .
The intermittent infusion rate should not exceed 200 mg / minute .
If intravenous administration is not feasible , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection should be used .
Evidence suggests that a loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion of PROTOPAM Chloride may maintain therapeutic levels longer than traditional short intermittent infusions therapy ( see Pharmacokinetics ) .
ADULT INTRAMUSCULAR DOSING : Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions on reconstitution of PROTOPAM Chloride that result in an approximate 300 mg / mL solution for intramuscular administration .
Intramuscular dosing in adults should be based on the severity of clinical symptoms .
MILD SYMPTOMS • • For treatment of mild symptoms , administer a 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM Chloride .
Wait 15 minutes for PROTOPAM Chloride to take effect .
• • If , after 15 minutes , mild symptoms persist , then administer a second 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM Chloride .
• • If , after an additional 15 minutes , mild symptoms continue to persist , a third 600 mg ( 2 mL ) dose of PROTOPAM Chloride may be administered for a total cumulative dose of 1800 mg .
• • If at any time after the first dose , the patient develops severe symptoms , administer two additional 600 mg intramuscular doses in rapid succession for a total cumulative dose of 1800 mg of PROTOPAM Chloride .
SEVERE SYMPTOMS • • For treatment of severe symptoms , administer three 600 mg intramuscular doses ( 3 doses of 2 mL each ) in rapid succession for a total dose of 1800 mg of PROTOPAM Chloride .
PERSISTENT SYMPTOMS • • If symptoms persist after administering the complete 1800 mg regimen ( 3 injections of 600 mg each ) , the series may be repeated beginning approximately 1 hour after administration of the last injection .
PEDIATRIC DOSING ( FOR PATIENTS 16 YEARS AND UNDER ) PEDIATRIC INTRAVENOUS DOSING : Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions on reconstitution and dilution of PROTOPAM Chloride that result in 10 - 20 mg / mL solution for intravenous infusion .
PROTOPAM Chloride can be given as intermittent intravenous infusions or as a loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion , depending upon the patient ’ s clinical condition .
The specific dose given should depend upon the severity of the symptoms .
Loading Dose Following By Continuous Infusion : Administer a loading dose of 20 - 50 mg / kg ( not to exceed 2000 mg / dose ) over 15 - 30 minutes followed by a continuous infusion of 10 - 20 mg / kg / hour .
Intermittent Infusion Dosing : Administer an initial intermittent infusion of 20 - 50 mg / kg ( not to exceed 2000 mg / dose ) over 15 - 30 minutes .
A second dose of 20 - 50 mg / kg may be indicated after about one hour if muscle weakness has not been relieved .
Repeat dosing is permissible every 10 - 12 hours as needed .
If it is not practical to administer intermittent or continuous intravenous infusions , or if pulmonary edema is present , the 20 - 50 mg / kg dose should be given slowly ( over not less than five minutes ) by intravenous injection as a 50 mg / mL solution in water ( see Preparation for Administration section ) .
Additional doses may be given every 10 - 12 hours if muscle weakness persists .
PEDIATRIC INTRAMUSCULAR DOSING : Refer to the Preparation for Administration section for instructions on reconstitution of PROTOPAM Chloride that result in an approximate 300 mg / mL solution for intramuscular administration .
Intramuscular injections in children should be administered in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh to avoid the nerve , artery and vein , as well as the femur .
Pharmacokinetic modeling using published data from the scientific literature was conducted to derive intramuscular dosing recommendations in the pediatric population .
The specific intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM Chloride should depend upon the severity of the symptoms .
MILD SYMPTOMS • • For the treatment of mild symptoms , administer a weight - appropriate intramuscular dose ( see Table 1 below ) of PROTOPAM Chloride .
Wait 15 minutes for PROTOPAM Chloride to take effect .
• • If , after 15 minutes , mild symptoms persist , then administer a second weight - appropriate intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM Chloride .
• • If after an additional 15 minutes , mild symptoms continue to persist , a third weight - appropriate intramuscular dose of PROTOPAM Chloride may be administered .
• • The three PROTOPAM Chloride injections together are considered a single course of treatment , and the total amount of PROTOPAM Chloride administered per course of treatment ( i . e . , 3 weight - appropriate injections ) should not exceed the total amounts listed in Table 1 below .
• • If at any time after the first dose , the patient develops severe symptoms , administer two additional weight - appropriate intramuscular doses of PROTOPAM Chloride in rapid succession .
SEVERE SYMPTOMS • • For treatment of severe symptoms , administer the weight - appropriate intramuscular dose ( see Table 1 below ) of PROTOPAM Chloride Injection as three injections , in rapid succession , into the patient ’ s anterolateral thigh ( see Table 1 below ) .
PERSISTENT SYMPTOMS • • If symptoms persist after administering a complete course ( 3 injections of the weight - appropriate dose each ) , the series may be repeated beginning approximately 1 hour after administration of the last injection .
Table 1 : Pediatric Intramuscular Dosing Recommendations [ 1 ] Weight in kg Dose Per Injection [ 2 ] Total Dose per Three - Injection Course [ 3 ] < 40 kg 15 mg / kg 45 mg / kg ≥ 40 kg [ 4 ] Use Adult Dosing Recommendations [ 5 ] Use Adult Dosing Recommendations [ 1 ] Dosing is based on an approximate 300 mg / mL solution .
[ 2 ] During the treatment of mild symptoms , if at any time after the first dose , the patient develops severe symptoms , administer two additional weight - appropriate intramuscular doses of PROTOPAM Chloride in rapid succession .
[ 3 ] Additional courses of PROTOPAM Chloride may be administered beginning one hour after the last injection .
A single course consists of three separate , weight - appropriate injections , administered either with 15 minute inter - injection observation periods for patients with mild symptoms , or all in rapid succession for patients with severe symptoms .
[ 4 ] Weight of 40 kg corresponds to approximately the 50 th percentile for a 12 year old child per the weight - for - age percentile growth charts published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2000 .
[ 5 ] Adult Dose Per Injection is 600 mg ; Total Adult Dose per Three - Injection Course is 1800 mg .
Anticholinesterase Overdosage As an antagonist to such anticholinesterases as neostigmine , pyridostigmine , and ambenonium , which are used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis , PROTOPAM Chloride may be given in a dosage of 1000 to 2000 mg intravenously followed by increments of 250 mg every five minutes .
Preparation for Administration PROTOPAM Chloride is supplied as 1000 mg single - dose vials for injection .
For INTRAVENOUS infusion : Reconstitute a single PROTOPAM Chloride 1000 mg vial by adding 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , which results in a 50 mg / mL concentration .
The solution should further be diluted with Normal Saline for Injection , USP to achieve a concentration of 10 to 20 mg / mL ( e . g . 1000 mg in 100 mL or 2000 mg in 100 mL ) .
For fluid restricted patients or for rapid administration ( over at least 5 min ) , a maximum concentration of 50 mg / mL may be used .
For INTRAMUSCULAR injection : Reconstitute a single PROTOPAM Chloride 1000 mg vial by adding 3 . 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP for an approximate concentration of 300 mg / mL .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Discard unused solution after a dose has been withdrawn .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC 60977 - 141 - 01 — Hospital Package : This contains six 20 mL vials of 1 g each of sterile PROTOPAM Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for Injection white to off - white porous cake * , without diluent or syringe .
* When necessary , sodium hydroxide is added during processing to adjust the pH . Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND TOXICOLOGY The following table lists chemical and trade or generic names of pesticides , chemicals , and drugs against which PROTOPAM Chloride ( usually administered in conjunction with atropine ) has been found to have antidotal activity on the basis of animal experiments .
All compounds listed are organophosphates having anticholinesterase activity .
A great many additional substances are in industrial use but have been omitted because of lack of specific information .
AAT — see PARATHION AFLIX — see FORMOTHION ALKRON — see PARATHION AMERICAN CYANAMID 3422 — see PARATHION AMITON — diethyl - S - ( 2 - diethylaminoethyl ) phosphorothiolate ANTHIO — see FORMOTHION APHAMITE — see PARATHION ARMIN — ethyl - 4 - nitrophenylethylphosphonate AZINPHOS - METHYL — dimethyl - S - [ ( 4 - oxo - 1 , 2 , 3 , - benzotriazin - 3 ( 4 H ) - yl ) methyl ] phosphorodithioate MORPHOTHION — dimethyl - S - 2 - keto - 2 - ( N - morpholyl ) ethylphosphorodithioate NEGUVON — see TRICHLOROFON NIRAN — see PARATHION NITROSTIGMINE — see PARATHION O , O - DIETHYL - O - p - NITROPHENYL PHOSPHOROTHIOATE — see PARATHION O , O - DIETHYL - O - p - NITROPHENYLTHIO PHOSPHATE — see PARATHION OR 1191 — see PHOSPHAMIDON OS 1836 — see VINYLPHOS OXYDEMETONMETHYL — dimethyl - S - 2 - ( ethylsulfinyl ) ethyl phosphorothiolate PARAOXON — diethyl ( 4 - nitrophenyl ) phosphate PARATHION — diethyl ( 4 - nitrophenyl ) phosphorothionate PENPHOS — see PARATHION PHENCAPTON — diethyl - S - ( 2 , 5 - dichlorophenylmercaptomethyl ) phosphorodithioate PHOSDRIN — see MEVINPHOS PHOS - KIL — see PARATHION PHOSPHAMIDON — 1 - chloro - 1 - diethylcarbamoyl - 1 - propen - 2 - yl - dimethylphosphate PHOSPHOLINE IODIDE — see echothiophate iodide PHOSPHOROTHIOIC ACID , O , O - DIETHYL - O - p - NITROPHENYL ESTER — see PARATHION PLANTHION — see PARATHION QUELETOX — see FENTHION RH — see PARATHION RU — 4 - tert - butyl - 2 - chlorophenylmethyl - N - methylphosphoroamidate SARIN — isopropyl - methylphosphonofluoridate SHELL OS 1836 — see VINYLPHOS SHELL 2046 — see MEVINPHOS SNP — see PARATHION SOMAN - pinacolyl - methylphosphonofluoridate SYSTOX - diethyl - ( 2 - ethylmercaptoethyl ) phosphorothionate TEP - see TEPP TEPP - tetraethylpyro phosphate THIOPHOS - see PARATHION TIGUVON - see FENTHION TRICHLOROFON - dimethyl - 1 - hydroxy - 2 , 2 , 2 - trichloroethylphosphonate VAPONA - see DICHLORVOS VAPOPHOS - see PARATHION VINYLPHOS - diethyl - 2 - chloro - vinylphosphate PROTOPAM Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) appears to be ineffective , or marginally effective , against poisoning by : CIODRIN ( alpha - methylbenzyl - 3 - [ dimethoxyphosphinyloxy ] - ciscrotonate ) DIMEFOX ( tetramethylphosphorodiamidic fluoride ) DIMETHOATE ( dimethyl - S - [ N - methylcarbamoylmethyl ] phosphorodithioate ) METHYL DIAZINON ( dimethyl - [ 2 - isopropyl - 4 - methylpyrimidyl ] - phosphorothionate ) METHYL PHENCAPTON ( dimethyl - S - [ 2 , 5 - dichlorophenylmercaptomethyl ] phosphorodithioate ) PHORATE ( diethyl - S - ethylmercaptomethylphosphorodithioate ) SCHRADAN ( octamethylpyrophosphoramide ) WEPSYN ( 5 - amino - 1 - [ bis - ( dimethylamino ) phosphinyl ] - 3 - phenyl - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole ) .
Baxter and Protopam are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
All other trademarks or brand names appearing herein are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA By : Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 For Product Inquiry 1 800 ANA DRUG ( 1 - 800 - 262 - 3784 ) 07 - 19 - 00 - 0141 Rev : January 2018 PACKAGE LABEL - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Label NDC 60977 - 141 - 27 Protopam Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for injection 1 g Single Dose Vial Rx only FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION ; may be given subcutaneously or intramuscularly if this route is not feasible .
Prepare injection by adding 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Usual Dosage : 1 g See accompanying descriptive literature .
Discard unused solution after a dose have been withdrawn .
Prepared by cryodesiccation .
esi Mfd .
for Baxter Healthcare Corp .
Deerfield , IL 60015 USA by : Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions , LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 460 - 496 - 01 ( 01 ) 00360977141275 3 - 942 - 233 Lot : Exp : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 60977 - 141 - 01 Protopam Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for injection 1 g Rx only 6 x 1 g Single Dose Vials FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECION ; may also be given by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection if the intravenous route is not feasible .
esi Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA by : Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions , LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 Lot : Exp : NDC 60977 - 141 - 01 Protopam Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for injection 1 g 6 x 1 g Single Dose Vials N3 60977 14101 5 Enclosed in this package are six vials , each containing 1 g of sterile Protopam Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) .
When necessary , either 1 N hydrochloric acid or 1 N sodium hydroxide may be added during processing to adjust the pH . Prepare injection by adding 20 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP ( not supplied in this package ) .
Usual Dosage : 1 g See accompanying descriptive literature .
Discard unused solution after a dose has been withdrawn .
Prepared by cryodesiccation .
Enclosed product circular for human use .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Baxter and Protopam are trademarks of Baxter International Inc . or its subsidiaries .
460 - 497 - 00 3 - 809 - 1808 NDC 60977 - 141 - 01 Protopam Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for injection 1 g 6 x 1 g Single Dose Vials FOR INTRAVENOUS INJECTION ; may also be given by intramuscular or subcutaneous injection if the intravenous route is not feasible .
esi Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA by : Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PROTOPAM Chloride ( pralidoxime chloride ) for injection 1 gram Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) EXP 06 2023 LOT 933462 Bar code ( 17 ) 230600 ( 10 ) 933462 Bar code ( 01 ) 5 0360977 14101 0 ( 30 ) 0276 Baxter Healthcare Corporation Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 NDC 60977 - 141 - 01 46 Packs , each containing 6 X 20 mL Vials Bar code ( 01 ) 5 0360977 14101 0 ( 21 ) 000000000493 ( 17 ) 230616 ( 10 ) 933462 07 - 06 - 77 - 165 Bar code 20 - 4682 - 233 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
