Warnings and Precautions , Hyperglycemia ( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TEPEZZA is indicated for the treatment of Thyroid Eye Disease .
TEPEZZA is an insulin - like growth factor - 1 receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Thyroid Eye Disease ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initiate dosing with 10 mg / kg for first infusion , followed by 20 mg / kg every 3 weeks for 7 additional infusions ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer TEPEZZA by intravenous infusion over 60 to 90 minutes ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dose of TEPEZZA is an intravenous infusion of 10 mg / kg for the initial dose followed by an intravenous infusion of 20 mg / kg every three weeks for 7 additional infusions .
2 . 2 Reconstitution and Preparation Step 1 : Calculate the dose ( mg ) and determine the number of vials needed for the 10 or 20 mg / kg dosage based on patient weight .
Each TEPEZZA vial contains 500 mg of the teprotumumab antibody .
Step 2 : Using appropriate aseptic technique , reconstitute each TEPEZZA vial with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Ensure that the stream of diluent is not directed onto the lyophilized powder , which has a cake - like appearance .
Do not shake , but gently swirl the solution by rotating the vial until the lyophilized powder is dissolved .
The reconstituted solution has a volume of 10 . 5 mL .
Withdraw 10 . 5 mL of reconstituted solution to obtain 500 mg .
After reconstitution , the final concentration is 47 . 6 mg / mL .
Step 3 : The reconstituted TEPEZZA solution must be further diluted in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP prior to infusion .
To maintain a constant volume in the infusion bag , a sterile syringe and needle should be used to remove the volume equivalent to the amount of the reconstituted TEPEZZA solution to be placed into the infusion bag .
Discard the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP volume withdrawn .
Step 4 : Withdraw the required volume from the reconstituted TEPEZZA vial ( s ) based on the patient ' s weight ( in kg ) and transfer into an intravenous bag containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Solution , USP to prepare a diluted solution with a total volume of 100 mL ( for less than 1800 mg dose ) or 250 mL ( for 1800 mg and greater dose ) .
Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion .
Do not shake .
The product does not contain any preservative .
The combined storage time of reconstituted TEPEZZA solution in the vial and the diluted solution in the infusion bag containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a total of 4 hours at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) or up to 48 hours under refrigerated conditions 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) protected from light .
If refrigerated prior to administration , allow the diluted solution to reach room temperature prior to infusion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Upon reconstitution , TEPEZZA is a colorless or slightly brown , clear to opalescent solution which is free of foreign particulate matter .
Discard the solution if any particulate matter or discoloration are observed .
Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution .
Discard vial ( s ) and all unused contents .
No incompatibilities between TEPEZZA and polyethylene ( PE ) , polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) , polyurethane ( PUR ) or polyolefin ( PO ) bags and intravenous administration sets have been observed .
2 . 3 Administration Administer the diluted solution intravenously over 90 minutes for the first two infusions .
If well tolerated , the minimum time for subsequent infusions can be reduced to 60 minutes .
If not well tolerated , the minimum time for subsequent infusions should remain at 90 minutes .
Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus .
TEPEZZA should not be infused concomitantly with other agents .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection ( intravenous infusion ) : 500 mg of teprotumumab as a white to off - white lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and dilution .
For Injection : 500 mg lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Infusion Reactions : If an infusion reaction occurs , interrupt or slow the rate of infusion and use appropriate medical management ( 5 . 1 ) • Exacerbation of Preexisting Inflammatory Bowel Disease ( IBD ) : Monitor patients with preexisting IBD for flare of disease ; discontinue TEPEZZA if IBD worsens ( 5 . 2 ) • Hyperglycemia : Assess patients for elevated blood glucose and symptoms of hyperglycemia prior to infusion and continue to monitor while on treatment with TEPEZZA .
Ensure patients with hyperglycemia or pre - existing diabetes are under appropriate glycemic control before and while receiving TEPEZZA ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Infusion Reactions TEPEZZA may cause infusion reactions .
Infusion reactions have been reported in approximately 4 % of patients treated with TEPEZZA .
Signs and symptoms of infusion - related reactions include transient increases in blood pressure , feeling hot , tachycardia , dyspnea , headache and muscular pain .
Infusion reactions may occur during any of the infusions or within 1 . 5 hours after an infusion .
Reported infusion reactions are usually mild or moderate in severity and can usually be successfully managed with corticosteroids and antihistamines .
In patients who experience an infusion reaction , consideration should be given to pre - medicating with an antihistamine , antipyretic , corticosteroid and / or administering all subsequent infusions at a slower infusion rate .
5 . 2 Exacerbation of Preexisting Inflammatory Bowel Disease TEPEZZA may cause an exacerbation of preexisting inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) .
Monitor patients with IBD for flare of disease .
If IBD exacerbation is suspected , consider discontinuation of TEPEZZA .
5 . 3 Hyperglycemia Hyperglycemia or increased blood glucose may occur in patients treated with TEPEZZA .
In clinical trials , 10 % of patients ( two thirds of whom had pre - existing diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance ) experienced hyperglycemia .
Hyperglycemic events should be controlled with medications for glycemic control , if necessary .
Assess patients for elevated blood glucose and symptoms of hyperglycemia prior to infusion and continue to monitor while on treatment with TEPEZZA .
Ensure patients with hyperglycemia or pre - existing diabetes are under appropriate glycemic control before and while receiving TEPEZZA .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Infusion Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Exacerbation of Preexisting Inflammatory Bowel Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than 5 % ) are muscle spasm , nausea , alopecia , diarrhea , fatigue , hyperglycemia , hearing impairment , dry skin , dysgeusia , headache , weight decreased and nail disorder ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Horizon at 1 - 866 - 479 - 6742 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of TEPEZZA was evaluated in two randomized , double - masked , placebo - controlled clinical studies ( Study 1 [ NCT : 01868997 ] and Study 2 [ NCT : 03298867 ] ) consisting of 170 patients with Thyroid Eye Disease ( 84 received TEPEZZA and 86 received placebo ) .
Patients were treated with TEPEZZA ( 10 mg / kg for first infusion and 20 mg / kg for the remaining 7 infusions ) or placebo given as an intravenous infusion every 3 weeks for a total of 8 infusions .
The majority of patients completed 8 infusions ( 89 % of TEPEZZA patients and 93 % of placebo patients ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) that occurred at greater incidence in the TEPEZZA group than in the control group during the treatment period of Studies 1 and 2 are summarized in Table 1 .
In addition , menstrual disorders ( amenorrhea , metrorrhagia , dysmenorrhea ) were reported in approximately 23 % ( 5 of 22 patients ) of menstruating women treated with TEPEZZA compared to 4 % ( 1 of 25 patients ) treated with placebo in the clinical trials .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in 5 % or More of Patients Treated with TEPEZZA and Greater Incidence than PlaceboAdverse Reactions TEPEZZA N = 84 N ( % ) Placebo N = 86 N ( % ) Muscle spasms 21 ( 25 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Nausea 14 ( 17 % ) 8 ( 9 % ) Alopecia 11 ( 13 % ) 7 ( 8 % ) Diarrhea 10 ( 12 % ) 7 ( 8 % ) Fatigue [ 1 ] 10 ( 12 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Hyperglycemia [ 2 ] 8 ( 10 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Hearing impairment [ 3 ] 8 ( 10 % ) 0 Dysgeusia 7 ( 8 % ) 0 Headache 7 ( 8 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Dry skin 7 ( 8 % ) 0 Weight decreased 5 ( 6 % ) 0 Nail disorder [ 4 ] 4 ( 5 % ) 0 [ 1 ] Fatigue includes asthenia [ 2 ] Hyperglycemia includes blood glucose increase [ 3 ] Hearing impairment ( includes deafness , eustachian tube dysfunction , hyperacusis , hypoacusis and autophony ) [ 4 ] Nail disorder ( includes nail discoloration , nail disorder and onychoclasis ) 6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
In a placebo - controlled study with TEPEZZA , 1 of 42 patients treated with placebo had detectable levels of antidrug antibodies in serum .
In the same study , none of the 41 patients treated with TEPEZZA had detectable levels of antidrug antibodies in serum .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of TEPEZZA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : diabetic ketoacidosis , hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state ( HHS ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Females of Reproductive Potential : Appropriate forms of contraception should be implemented prior to initiation , during treatment and for 6 months following the last dose of TEPEZZA ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animals and its mechanism of action inhibiting insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor ( IGF - 1 R ) , TEPEZZA may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Adequate and well - controlled studies with TEPEZZA have not been conducted in pregnant women .
There are insufficient data with TEPEZZA use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks for adverse developmental outcomes .
In utero teprotumumab exposure in cynomolgus monkeys dosed once weekly with teprotumumab throughout pregnancy resulted in external and skeletal abnormalities .
Teprotumumab exposure may lead to an increase in fetal loss [ see Data ] .
Therefore , TEPEZZA should not be used in pregnancy , and appropriate forms of contraception should be implemented prior to initiation , during treatment and for 6 months following the last dose of TEPEZZA .
If the patient becomes pregnant during treatment , TEPEZZA should be discontinued and the patient advised of the potential risk to the fetus .
The background rate of major birth defects and miscarriage is unknown for the indicated population .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an abridged pilot embryofetal development study , seven pregnant cynomolgus monkeys were dosed intravenously at one dose level of teprotumumab , 75 mg / kg ( 2 . 8 - fold the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on AUC ) once weekly from gestation day 20 through the end of gestation .
The incidence of abortion was higher for the teprotumumab treated group compared to the control group .
Teprotumumab caused decreased fetal growth during pregnancy , decreased fetal size and weight at caesarean section , decreased placental weight and size , and decreased amniotic fluid volume .
Multiple external and skeletal abnormalities were observed in each exposed fetus , including : misshapen cranium , closely set eyes , micrognathia , pointing and narrowing of the nose , and ossification abnormalities of skull bones , sternebrae , carpals , tarsals and teeth .
The test dose , 75 mg / kg of teprotumumab , was the maternal no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) .
Based on mechanism of action inhibiting IGF - 1 R , postnatal exposure to teprotumumab may cause harm .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of TEPEZZA in human milk , the effects on the breast - fed infant or the effects on milk production .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Females Based on its mechanism of action inhibiting IGF - 1 R , TEPEZZA may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception prior to initiation , during treatment with TEPEZZA and for 6 months after the last dose of TEPEZZA .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 171 patients in the two randomized trials , 15 % were 65 years of age or older ; the number of patients 65 years or older was similar between treatment groups .
No overall differences in efficacy or safety were observed between patients 65 years or older and younger patients ( less than 65 years of age ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE No information is available for patients who have received an overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Teprotumumab - trbw , an insulin - like growth factor - 1 receptor inhibitor ( IGF - 1 R ) , is a fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO - DG44 ) cells .
It has a molecular weight of approximately 148 kilodaltons .
TEPEZZA ( teprotumumab - trbw ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white , lyophilized powder for intravenous infusion .
Each single - dose vial contains 500 mg of teprotumumab - trbw , L - histidine ( 7 . 45 mg ) , L - histidine hydrochloride monohydrate ( 31 . 8 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 1 mg ) , and trehalose dihydrate ( 946 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the final concentration is 47 . 6 mg / mL with a pH of 5 . 5 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Teprotumumab - trbw ' s mechanism of action in patients with Thyroid Eye Disease has not been fully characterized .
Teprotumumab - trbw binds to IGF - 1 R and blocks its activation and signaling .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No formal pharmacodynamic studies have been conducted with teprotumumab - trbw .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of teprotumumab - trbw was described by a two compartment population PK model based on data from 40 patients with Thyroid Eye Disease receiving an initial intravenous infusion of 10 mg / kg , followed by infusions of 20 mg / kg TEPEZZA every 3 weeks in one clinical trial .
Following this regimen , the mean ( ± standard deviation ) estimates for steady - state area under the concentration curve ( AUC ) , peak ( Cmax ) , and trough ( Ctrough ) concentrations of teprotumumab - trbw were 138 ( ± 34 ) mg ∙ hr / mL , 632 ( ± 139 ) mcg / mL , and 176 ( ± 56 ) mcg / mL , respectively .
Distribution Following the recommended TEPEZZA dosing regimen , the population PK estimated mean ( ± standard deviation ) for central and peripheral volume of distribution of teprotumumab - trbw were 3 . 26 ( ± 0 . 87 ) L and 4 . 32 ( ± 0 . 67 ) L , respectively .
The mean ( ± standard deviation ) estimated inter - compartment clearance was 0 . 74 ( ± 0 . 16 ) L / day .
Elimination Following the recommended TEPEZZA dosing regimen , the population PK estimated mean ( ± standard deviation ) for the clearance of teprotumumab - trbw was 0 . 27 ( ± 0 . 08 ) L / day and for the elimination half - life was 20 ( ± 5 ) days .
Metabolism Metabolism of teprotumumab - trbw has not been fully characterized .
However , teprotumumab - trbw is expected to undergo metabolism via proteolysis .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of teprotumumab - trbw were observed following administration of TEPEZZA based on patient ' s age ( 18 - 80 years ) , gender , race / ethnicity ( 103 White , 10 Black , and 3 Asian ) , weight ( 46 - 169 kg ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 89 mL / min estimated by Cockcroft - Gault Equation ) , bilirubin levels ( 2 . 7 - 24 . 3 mcmol / L ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels ( 11 - 221 U / L ) , or alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels ( 7 - 174 U / L ) .
The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of teprotumumab - trbw is unknown .
Drug Interactions No studies evaluating the drug interaction potential of TEPEZZA have been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis The carcinogenic potential of TEPEZZA has not been evaluated in long - term animal studies .
Mutagenesis The genotoxic potential of TEPEZZA has not been evaluated .
Impairment of Fertility Fertility studies have not been performed with TEPEZZA .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES TEPEZZA was evaluated in 2 randomized , double - masked , placebo - controlled studies in 171 patients with Thyroid Eye Disease : Study 1 ( NCT01868997 ) and Study 2 ( NCT03298867 ) .
Patients were randomized to receive TEPEZZA or placebo in a 1 : 1 ratio .
Patients were given intravenous infusions ( 10 mg / kg for first infusion and 20 mg / kg for the remaining 7 infusions ) every 3 weeks for a total of 8 infusions .
Patients had a clinical diagnosis of Thyroid Eye Disease with symptoms and were euthyroid or had thyroxine and free triiodothyronine levels less than 50 % above or below normal limits .
Prior surgical treatment for Thyroid Eye Disease was not permitted .
Proptosis ranged from 16 to 33 mm and 125 patients ( 73 % ) had diplopia at baseline .
A total of 84 patients were randomized to TEPEZZA and 87 patients were randomized to placebo .
The median age was 52 years ( range 20 to 79 years ) , 86 % were White , 9 % were Black or African - American , 4 % were Asian and 1 % identified as Other .
The majority ( 73 % ) were female .
At baseline , 27 % of patients were smokers .
The proptosis responder rate at week 24 was defined as the percentage of patients with ≥ 2 mm reduction in proptosis in the study eye from baseline , without deterioration in the non - study eye ( ≥ 2 mm increase ) in proptosis .
Additional evaluations included signs and symptoms of Thyroid Eye Disease including pain , gaze evoked orbital pain , swelling , eyelid erythema , redness , chemosis , inflammation , clinical activity score and assessments of functional vision and patient appearance .
Results for proptosis are found in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Efficacy Results in Patients with Thyroid Eye Disease in Study 1 and 2 Study 1 Study 2 Teprotumumab ( N = 42 ) Placebo ( N = 45 ) Difference ( 95 % CI ) Teprotumumab ( N = 41 ) Placebo ( N = 42 ) Difference ( 95 % CI ) Proptosis responder rate at week 24 , % ( n ) [ 1 ] 71 % ( 30 ) 20 % ( 9 ) 51 % ( 33 , 69 ) 83 % ( 34 ) 10 % ( 4 ) 73 % ( 59 , 88 ) Proptosis ( mm ) average change from baseline through week 24 , LS Mean ( SE ) [ 2 ] - 2 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) - 0 . 2 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 3 ( - 2 . 8 , - 1 . 8 ) - 2 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) - 0 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 3 ( - 2 . 8 , - 1 . 8 ) [ 1 ] Difference and its corresponding 95 % Confidence Interval ( CI ) is based on a weighted average of the difference within each randomization stratum ( tobacco user , tobacco non - use ) using CMH weights .
[ 2 ] Results were obtained from an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix and including treatment , smoking status , baseline value , visit , treatment by visit , and visit by baseline value interaction as fixed effects .
A change from Baseline of 0 was imputed at the first post - Baseline visit for any subject without a post - Baseline value .
In Study 2 , improvement of proptosis as measured by mean change from Baseline was observed as early as 6 weeks and continued to improve through week 24 as shown in Figure 1 .
Similar results were seen in Study 1 .
Figure 1 .
Change from Baseline in Proptosis over 24 Weeks in Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] P < 0 . 01 at each timepoint TEPEZZA also led to improvement in the less severely impacted " fellow " eye .
Diplopia ( double vision ) was evaluated in a subgroup of patients that had diplopia at baseline in Study 1 and 2 .
Results are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Diplopia in Patients with Thyroid Eye Disease in Study 1 and 2 Parameter TEPEZZA ( n = 66 ) Placebo ( n = 59 ) P < 0 . 01 Diplopia Responder rate [ 1 ] at week 24 , % ( n ) 53 % ( 35 ) 25 % ( 15 ) [ 1 ] Diplopia was evaluated on a 4 - point scale where scores ranged from 0 for no diplopia to 3 for constant diplopia .
A diplopia responder was defined as a patient with baseline diplopia > 0 and a score of 0 at week 24 .
Following discontinuation of treatment in Study 1 , 53 % of patients ( 16 of 30 patients ) who were proptosis responders at week 24 maintained proptosis response 51 weeks after the last TEPEZZA infusion .
67 % of patients ( 12 of 18 ) who were diplopia responders at week 24 maintained diplopia response 51 weeks after the last TEPEZZA infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Subgroups Examination of age and gender subgroups did not identify differences in response to TEPEZZA among these subgroups .
Reduction in proptosis was similar between smokers and non - smokers in both studies .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING TEPEZZA ( teprotumumab - trbw ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder available as follows : Carton containing one 500 mg single - dose vial NDC 75987 - 130 - 15 Refrigerate at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton until time of use to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise females of reproductive potential that TEPEZZA can cause harm to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy .
• Educate and counsel females of reproductive potential about the need to use effective contraception prior to initiation , during treatment with TEPEZZA and for 6 months after the last dose of TEPEZZA .
Infusion - related reactions • Advise patients that TEPEZZA may cause infusion reactions that can occur at any time .
Instruct patients to recognize the signs and symptoms of infusion reaction and to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of potential infusion - related reactions .
Exacerbation of Preexisting Inflammatory Bowel Disease • Advise patients on the risk of inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) and to seek medical advice immediately if they experience diarrhea , with or without blood or rectal bleeding , associated with abdominal pain or cramping / colic , urgency , tenesmus or incontinence .
Hyperglycemia • Advise patients on the risk of hyperglycemia and , if diabetic , discuss with healthcare provider to adjust glycemic control measures including medications as appropriate .
Encourage compliance with glycemic control .
Manufactured by : Horizon Therapeutics Ireland DAC Dublin , Ireland U . S . License No . 2022 Distributed by : Horizon Therapeutics USA , Inc .
Deerfield , IL 60015 TEP - US - PI - 003 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Vial Carton NDC - 75987 - 130 - 15 TEPEZZA ® ( teprotumumab - trbw ) for Injection 500 mg / vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Reconstitute and Further Dilute Prior to Use Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
