Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Capsicum Oleoresin 0 . 0625 % Pain ( Containing Capsaicin 0 . 025 % ) Relieving Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with • simple backache • arthritis • strains • sprains Warnings For external use only .
• do not apply to wounds or damaged skin When using this product do not get into eyes • do not bandage tightly • do not use with heating pad , wrap , hot water bottle or any heating element .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens • if symptoms persist for more than 7 days • clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
• if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away • if pregnant or nursing , seek the advice of a health professional before using Directions • Children under 12 years of age consult a physician • Apply a thin layer to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Gently massage into the skin until fully absorbed • Wash hands with soap and water after each application to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes • A burning sensation may occur upon inital application but generally disappears with continued use .
For a severe burning discomfort , remove excess product with a soft cloth and cooking oil .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , PEG - 75 Lanolin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Glucosamine HCl , Medicago Sativa ( Alfalfa ) Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Cymbopogon Schoenanthus Extract , Seed of Celosia Argentea Extract , Dimethyl Sulfone , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Polysorbate 20 , Tocopheryl Acetate , Emu Oil , Propylene Glycol , DMDM Hydantoin .
Methylparaben , Propylparaben .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 888 - 373 - 8831 Manufactured by : Concept Laboratories , Inc .
Chicago , IL 60642 ( USA ) # CL10010 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Label Pure Relief Penetrating Pain Relief Spray with Capsaicin Temporary relieves joint & arthritis pain in • Hips • Knees & Elbows • Hands & Feet • And more 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
