Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Each tablet contains potassium acid phosphate 500 mg .
Each tablet yields approximately 114 mg of phosphorus and 144 mg of potassium or 3 . 7 mEq .
Inactive ingredients : Magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , silicon dioxide , starch , stearic acid .
ACTIONS K - PHOS ® ORIGINAL is a highly effective sodium - free urinary acidifier .
INDICATONS AND USAGE For use in patients with elevated urinary pH . K - PHOS ® ORIGINAL helps keep calcium soluble and reduces odor and rash caused by ammoniacal urine .
Also , by acidifying the urine , it increases the antibacterial activity of methenamine mandelate and methenamine hippurate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with infected phosphate stones ; in patients with severely impaired renal function ( less than 30 % of normal ) and in the presence of hyperphosphatemia and hyperkalemia .
PRECAUTIONS General This product contains potassium and should be used with caution if regulation of this element is desired .
Occasionally , some individuals may experience a mild laxative effect during the first few days of phosphate therapy .
If laxation persists to an unpleasant degree , reduce the daily dosage until this effect subsides or , if necessary , discontinue the use of this product .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing this product in the following conditions : Cardiac disease ( particularly in digitalized patients ) ; severe adrenal insufficiency ( Addison ' s disease ) ; acute dehydration ; severe renal insufficiency or chronic renal disease ; extensive tissue breakdown ( such as severe burns ) ; myotonia congenita ; hypoparathyroidism ; and acute pancreatitis .
Rickets may benefit from phosphate therapy , but caution should be exercised .
High serum phosphate levels may increase the incidence of extra - skeletal calcification .
Information for Patients Patients with kidney stones may pass old stones when phosphate therapy is started and should be warned of this possibility .
Patients should be advised to avoid the use of antacids containing aluminum , calcium , or magnesium , which may prevent the absorption of phosphate .
To assure against gastrointestinal injury associated with oral ingestion of concentrated potassium salt preparations , patients should be instructed to dissolve tablets completely in an appropriate amount of water before taking .
Laboratory Tests Careful monitoring of renal function and serum calcium , phosphorus and potassium may be required at periodic intervals during potassium phosphate therapy .
Other tests may be warranted in some patients , depending on conditions .
Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium , calcium , or aluminum in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption .
Potassium - containing medications or potassium - sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used concurrently with potassium salts .
Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals .
Concurrent use of salicylates may lead to increased serum salicylate levels since excretion of salicylates is reduced in acidified urine .
Serum salicylate levels should be closely monitored to avoid toxicity .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term or reproduction studies in animals or humans have been performed with K - PHOS ® ORIGINAL to evaluate its carcinogenic , mutagenic , or impairment of fertility potential .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with K - PHOS ® ORIGINAL .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset ( diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain , and vomiting ) may occur with the use of potassium phosphate .
Also , bone and joint pain ( possible phosphate - induced osteomalacia ) could occur .
The following adverse effects may be observed with potassium administration : irregular heartbeat ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; weakness or heaviness of legs ; unusual tiredness ; muscle cramps ; numbness , tingling , pain , or weakness in hands or feet ; numbness or tingling around lips ; shortness of breath or troubled breathing .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Two tablets dissolved in 6 - 8 oz .
of water 4 times daily with meals and at bedtime .
For best results , let the tablets soak in water for 2 to 5 minutes , or more if necessary , and stir .
If any tablet particles remain undissolved , they may be crushed and stirred vigorously to speed dissolution .
HOW SUPPLIED White , scored tablet with the name BEACH and the number 1111 imprinted on each tablet .
Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0486 - 1111 - 01 ) and bottles of 500 ( NDC 0486 - 1111 - 05 ) tablets .
STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closures .
BEACH PHARMACEUTICALS , Div .
of Beach Products , Inc . , Tampa , FL 33611 Rev : 07 / 09 B PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0486 - 1111 - 01 K - PHOS ® Original ( Sodium - Free ) POTASSIUM ACID PHOSPHATE URINARY ACIDIFIER Rx ONLY 100 TABLETS Beach [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
