Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( anti - itch ) Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry • and for external anal and genital itching .
Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occurs again within a few days • bleeding occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions For itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age : Consult a doctor For external anal and genital itching : Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap or warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing pad • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor Other information Store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) .
Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , carbomer , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl alcohol , methylparaben , mineral oil , polysorbate - 20 , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , triethanolamine , trisodium EDTA Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 or www . natureplex . com DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton NDC 70000 - 0543 - 1 LEADER ™ Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone Cream with Aloe Hydrocortisone , 1 % | Anti - Itch COMPARE TO CORTIZONE - 10 ® WITH ALOE MAXIMUM STRENGTH active ingredient * 100 % Money Back Guarantee Fast Itch Relief Relief in a Soothing Cream • Eczema • Insect Bites • Psoriasis • Poison Ivy , Oak & Sumac • Seborrheic Dermatitis • Soaps • And More NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
