Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 4 . 8 % Cough Suppresant & Topical Analgesic Eucalyptus Oil 1 . 2 % Cough Suppresant Menthol 2 . 6 % Cough Suppresant and Topical Analgesic Uses - on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold .
when applied to muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Store Other Information - Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , spirits of turpentine , thymol Directions - See important warnings under " When Using This Product " Directions - See important warnings under " When Using This Product " For External use only For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use - by mouth - in nostrils - on wounds or damaged skin - with light bandages Ask a Doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have - cough that occurs with too much phlegm - persistant or chronic cough , such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product When using this product do not : - heat - microwave - add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use Stop use and ask a doctor if - muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again after a few days - cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition If pregnant If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use Keep out Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions - see important warnings under " when using this product " - adults and children 2 years and over - for cough suppression - rub a thick layer on throat and chest - cover with a warm cloth if desired - keep clothing loose around throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mucus - use up to three times a day or as directed by a doctor - for muscle / joint aches and pains apply to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily - children under 2 years do not use If pregnant If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use Children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Center Warning Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequences For external use only , avoid contact with eyes Do not use - by mouth - in nostrils - on wounds of damaged skin - with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have - cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) - persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not - heat - microwave - add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns Stop use and ask a doctor if - musche aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and accur again after a few days - cough persit for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition Principal display 100 g RESFRIOL VAPOUR RUB TOPICAL OINTMENT - MEDICATED - Nasal Congestion - Cough Suppresant NET WT .
3 . 53 OZ ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
