Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) 12 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VPRIV is indicated for long - term enzyme replacement therapy ( ERT ) for patients with type 1 Gaucher disease .
VPRIV is a hydrolytic lysosomal glucocerebroside - specific enzyme indicated for long - term enzyme replacement therapy ( ERT ) for patients with type 1 Gaucher disease .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Starting Dose in Adults and Pediatric Patients 4 Years of Age or Older : • Patients Naïve to Enzyme Replacement Therapy : 60 Units / kg ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients being treated with stable imiglucerase dosages for Gaucher disease : Can switch to VPRIV at previous imiglucerase dose two weeks after last imiglucerase dose ( 2 . 2 ) • Determine number of vials to be reconstituted based on patient ' s actual weight and prescribed dose ( 2 . 3 ) • Supplied VPRIV lyophilized powder must be reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection ( 2 . 3 ) • Reconstituted VPRIV solution must be diluted in 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection prior to intravenous infusion ( 2 . 3 ) • Administer the diluted VPRIV solution through an in - line low protein - binding 0 . 2 or 0 . 22 µm filter ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Starting Dosage in Patients Naïve to Enzyme Replacement Therapy VPRIV should be administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional .
The recommended starting VPRIV dosage in naïve adults and naïve pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is 60 Units / kg administered every other week as a 60 - minute intravenous infusion .
The dosage can be adjusted based on achievement and maintenance of each patient ' s therapeutic goals .
2 . 2 Switching from Imiglucerase to VPRIV Adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older currently being treated on a stable dosage of imiglucerase for type 1 Gaucher disease may be switched to VPRIV by starting treatment with VPRIV at the previous imiglucerase dosage two weeks after the last imiglucerase dose .
VPRIV should be administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional as a 60 - minute intravenous infusion .
The dosage can be adjusted based on achievement and maintenance of each patient ' s therapeutic goals .
2 . 3 Reconstitution of the VPRIV Lyophilized Powder VPRIV is a lyophilized powder , which requires reconstitution and dilution , using sterile technique , prior to intravenous infusion .
VPRIV should be prepared as follows : • ( a ) Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the individual patient ' s weight and the prescribed dose .
• ( b ) Inject 4 . 3 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP into a vial containing VPRIV lyophilized powder .
• ( c ) Mix gently .
DO NOT SHAKE .
The reconstituted VPRIV solution will have a 100 Units / mL concentration ( 400 Units VPRIV in 4 mL of solution ) .
• ( d ) If additional vials are needed , repeat steps ( b ) and ( c ) .
• ( e ) Visually inspect the reconstituted VPRIV solution in the vials .
The solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colorless .
Do not use if the solution is discolored or if foreign particulate matter is present .
• ( f ) With a single syringe , withdraw the calculated dose of drug from the appropriate number of vials .
Using a separate syringe , withdraw air from a bag of 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection suitable for intravenous administration .
Then dilute the calculated dose of VPRIV directly into the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Mix gently .
DO NOT SHAKE .
Slight flocculation ( described as white irregular shaped particles ) may occasionally occur .
Diluted solution with slight flocculation is acceptable for administration .
• ( g ) Because VPRIV contains no preservatives , use the reconstituted VPRIV solution and the diluted VPRIV solution immediately .
If immediate use is not possible , the reconstituted VPRIV solution or the diluted VPRIV solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) .
Do not freeze and protect from light .
Complete the infusion within 24 hours of reconstitution of vials .
• ( h ) Vials are for one - time use and only for one patient .
Discard any unused solution .
2 . 4 Important Administration Instructions Administer the diluted VPRIV solution through an in - line low protein - binding 0 . 2 or 0 . 22 µm filter over 60 minutes .
Do not infuse VPRIV with other products in the same infusion tubing because the compatibility of a VPRIV solution with other products has not been evaluated .
2 . 5 Premedication to Reduce Risk of Subsequent Hypersensitivity Reactions Consider pre - treatment with antihistamines and / or corticosteroids in patients who exhibited symptoms of hypersensitivity associated with prior velaglucerase alfa product infusions .
Appropriate medical support should be readily available when VPRIV is administered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 400 units of a sterile , white to off - white , lyophilized powder in single - dose vials for reconstitution and dilution .
• For injection : 400 units lyophilized powder single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis : • Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have occurred ( 5 . 1 ) • Ensure that personnel administering product are adequately trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures , and have ready access to emergency medical services ( 5 . 1 ) • Consider slowing infusion rate , treatment with antihistamines , antipyretics and / or corticosteroids , and / or stopping treatment if a hypersensitivity reaction occurs during an infusion .
Consider pre - treatment with antihistamines and / or corticosteroids in patients with prior reactions ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , occurred in clinical studies and postmarketing experience [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions were the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with VPRIV in clinical studies .
Patients were not routinely pre - medicated prior to infusion of VPRIV during clinical studies .
The most commonly observed symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions were : headache , dizziness , hypotension , hypertension , nausea , fatigue / asthenia , and pyrexia / body temperature increased .
Generally the reactions were mild and , in treatment - naïve patients , onset occurred mostly during the first 6 months of treatment and tended to occur less frequently with time .
Additional hypersensitivity reactions of chest discomfort , dyspnea , pruritus and vomiting have been reported in post - marketing experience .
As with any intravenous protein product , hypersensitivity reactions are possible , therefore appropriate medical support including personnel adequately trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures and access to emergency measures should be readily available when VPRIV is administered .
If anaphylactic or other acute reactions occur , immediately discontinue the infusion of VPRIV and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
The management of hypersensitivity reactions should be based on the severity of the reaction , e . g . , slowing the infusion rate , treatment with medications such as antihistamines , antipyretics and / or corticosteroids , and / or stopping and resuming treatment with increased infusion time .
In cases where patients have exhibited symptoms of hypersensitivity to velaglucerase alfa or excipients in the drug product or to other enzyme replacement therapy , pre - treatment with antihistamines and / or corticosteroids may prevent subsequent reactions .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are : hypersensitivity reactions , headache , dizziness , abdominal pain , nausea , back pain , joint pain , prolonged activated PTT , fatigue / asthenia , and pyrexia ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure of 94 patients with type 1 Gaucher disease who received VPRIV at doses ranging from 15 Units / kg to 60 Units / kg every other week in 5 clinical studies .
Fifty - four ( 54 ) patients were naïve to enzyme replacement therapy ( ERT ) and received VPRIV for 9 months and 40 patients switched from imiglucerase to VPRIV treatment and received VPRIV for 12 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients were between 4 and 71 years old at time of first treatment with VPRIV , and included 46 male and 48 female patients .
The most serious adverse reactions in patients treated with VPRIV were hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients ) that were considered related to VPRIV are shown in Table 1 .
The most common adverse reactions were hypersensitivity reactions .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Observed in ≥ 10 % of Adult and Pediatric Patients with Type 1 Gaucher Disease Treated with VPRIV in the Pooled 5 Clinical StudiesAdverse Reaction Naïve to ERT N = 54 Number of patients ( % ) Switched from imiglucerase to VPRIV N = 40 Number of patients ( % ) Hypersensitivity reaction [ 1 ] 28 ( 52 ) 9 ( 23 ) Headache 19 ( 35 ) 12 ( 30 ) Dizziness 12 ( 22 ) 3 ( 8 ) Pyrexia 12 ( 22 ) 5 ( 13 ) Abdominal pain 10 ( 19 ) 6 ( 15 ) Back pain 9 ( 17 ) 7 ( 18 ) Joint pain ( knee ) 8 ( 15 ) 3 ( 8 ) Asthenia / Fatigue 8 ( 15 ) 5 ( 13 ) Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged 6 ( 11 ) 2 ( 5 ) Nausea 3 ( 6 ) 4 ( 10 ) [ 1 ] Denotes any event considered related to and occurring within up to 24 hours of VPRIV infusion , including one case of anaphylaxis .
Less common adverse reactions affecting more than one patient ( > 2 % in the treatment - naïve group and > 3 % in patients switched from imiglucerase to VPRIV treatment ) were bone pain , tachycardia , rash , urticaria , flushing , hypertension , and hypotension .
Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients The safety profile of VPRIV was similar between pediatric patients ( ages 4 to 17 years ) and adult patients .
Adverse reactions more commonly seen in pediatric patients compared to adult patients include ( > 10 % difference ) : rash , aPTT prolonged , and pyrexia .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to VPRIV in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In clinical studies , 1 of 54 ( 2 % ) enzyme treatment - naïve patients treated with VPRIV developed IgG antibodies to VPRIV .
One additional patient developed IgG antibodies to VPRIV during an extension study .
In both patients , the IgG antibodies to VPRIV were determined to be neutralizing in an in vitro assay .
The presence of IgG antibodies to VPRIV was not associated with hypersensitivity reactions .
It is unknown if the presence of IgG antibodies to VPRIV is associated with a higher risk of infusion reactions .
Patients with an immune response to other enzyme replacement therapies who are switching to VPRIV should continue to be monitored for antibodies to VPRIV .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of VPRIV .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal disorders : vomiting ( in some cases vomiting can be serious , requiring hospitalization and / or drug discontinuation ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data on use of velaglucerase alfa in pregnant women includes more than 300 pregnancies reported from the pharmacovigilance database and published observational cohort studies , including the international Gaucher Disease registry .
While available data cannot definitively establish or exclude the absence of a velaglucerase alfa associated risk during pregnancy , these data have not identified an association with use of velaglucerase alfa during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies no fetal harm was observed in rats or rabbits when velaglucerase alfa was administered intravenously during organogenesis at doses with exposures up to 1 . 8 times and 4 . 3 times , respectively , the recommended human daily dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of major birth defects , loss , and other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and Embryo / Fetal Risk Women with Type 1 Gaucher disease have an increased risk of spontaneous abortion , especially if disease symptoms are not treated and controlled pre - conception and during a pregnancy .
Pregnancy may exacerbate existing Type 1 Gaucher disease symptoms or result in new disease manifestations .
Type 1 Gaucher disease manifestations may lead to adverse pregnancy outcomes including hepatosplenomegaly which can interfere with the normal growth of a pregnancy , and thrombocytopenia which can lead to excessive bleeding .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal development studies with velaglucerase alfa have been performed during the period of organogenesis in pregnant rats ( gestation days 7 through 17 ) and rabbits ( gestation days 6 through 18 ) .
In pregnant rats intravenous doses up to 17 mg / kg ( 102 mg / m2 , about 1 . 8 times the recommended human dose of 60 Units / kg or 1 . 5 mg / kg or 55 . 5 mg / m2 based on the body surface area ) were administered two to three times weekly .
In pregnant rabbits intravenous doses up to 20 mg / kg ( 240 mg / m2 , about 4 . 3 times the recommended human dose of 60 Units / kg based on the body surface area ) were administered two to three times weekly .
These studies did not reveal any evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to velaglucerase alfa .
In a pre - and postnatal development study , velaglucerase alfa was administered intravenously to pregnant rats twice weekly from gestation day 6 to lactation day 19 .
There was no evidence of any adverse effect on pre - and postnatal development at doses up to 17 mg / kg / day ( 102 mg / m2 , about 1 . 8 times the recommended human dose of 60 Units / kg based on the body surface area ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available on the presence of velaglucerase alfa in human milk .
The reported cases from the pharmacovigilance database are insufficient to determine any effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Endogenous beta - glucocerebrosidase is present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for VPRIV and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from VPRIV or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VPRIV have been established for enzyme replacement therapy ( ERT ) in patients between 4 and 17 years of age with type 1 Gaucher disease .
Use of VPRIV in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of VPRIV in 74 adult patients and 20 pediatric patients .
The safety and efficacy profiles were similar between pediatric and adult patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The efficacy and safety of VPRIV has not been established in pediatric patients younger than 4 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of VPRIV in Gaucher ' s disease , a total of 56 VPRIV - treated patients were 65 years of age or older including 10 patients who were 75 years of age or older .
Among 205 patients who switched from imiglucerase to VPRIV , 52 patients were 65 years of age or older of which 10 were 75 years and older .
The adverse reaction profile in elderly patients was consistent with that previously observed across pediatric and adult patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be approached cautiously , considering potential comorbid conditions .
11 DESCRIPTION Velaglucerase alfa is a hydrolytic lysosomal glucocerebroside - specific enzyme produced by gene activation technology in a human fibroblast cell line .
Velaglucerase alfa is a glycoprotein of 497 amino acids and a molecular weight of approximately 63 kDa .
Velaglucerase alfa has the same amino acid sequence as the naturally occurring human enzyme , glucocerebrosidase .
Velaglucerase alfa contains five potential N - linked glycosylation sites ; four of these sites are occupied by glycan chains .
Velaglucerase alfa contains predominantly high mannose - type N - linked glycan chains .
The high mannose type N - linked glycan chains are specifically recognized and internalized via the mannose receptor present on the surface on macrophages , the cells that accumulate glucocerebroside in Gaucher disease .
VPRIV is dosed by units / kg , where one unit of enzyme activity is defined as the quantity of enzyme required to convert one micromole of p - nitrophenyl ß - D - glucopyranoside to p - nitrophenol per minute at 37ºC .
VPRIV ( velaglucerase alfa ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative free , white to off - white lyophilized powder in single - dose vials for intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution .
Each single - dose vial contains 400 units of velaglucerase alfa , and citric acid , monohydrate ( 5 . 04 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 0 . 44 mg ) , sodium citrate , dihydrate ( 51 . 76 mg ) , and sucrose ( 200 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 4 . 3 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the final concentration is 100 units / mL with a pH of approximately 6 . 0 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Gaucher disease is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the GBA gene , which results in a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme beta - glucocerebrosidase .
Glucocerebrosidase catalyzes the conversion of the sphingolipid glucocerebroside into glucose and ceramide .
The enzymatic deficiency causes an accumulation of glucocerebroside primarily in the lysosomal compartment of macrophages , giving rise to foam cells or " Gaucher cells " .
Velaglucerase alfa catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucocerebroside , reducing the amount of accumulated glucocerebroside .
In clinical trials VPRIV reduced spleen and liver size , and improved anemia and thrombocytopenia .
In this lysosomal storage disorder ( LSD ) , clinical features are reflective of the accumulation of Gaucher cells in the liver , spleen , bone marrow , and other organs .
The accumulation of Gaucher cells in the liver and spleen leads to organomegaly .
Presence of Gaucher cells in the bone marrow and spleen lead to clinically significant anemia and thrombocytopenia .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a multicenter study conducted in pediatric ( N = 7 , 4 to 17 years old ) and adult ( N = 15 , 19 to 62 years old ) patients with type 1 Gaucher disease , pharmacokinetic evaluations were performed at Weeks 1 and 37 following 60 - minute intravenous infusions of VPRIV 60 Units / kg every other week .
Serum velaglucerase alfa concentrations declined rapidly with a mean half life of 11 to 12 minutes .
The mean velaglucerase alfa clearance ranged from 6 . 72 to 7 . 56 mL / min / kg .
The mean volume of distribution at steady state ranged from 82 to 108 mL / kg ( 8 . 2 % to 10 . 8 % of body weight ) .
No accumulation or change in velaglucerase alfa pharmacokinetics over time from Weeks 1 to 37 was observed upon multiple - dosing 60 Units / kg every other week .
Based on the limited data , there were no notable pharmacokinetic differences between male and female patients in this study .
The effect of age on pharmacokinetics of velaglucerase alfa was inconclusive .
The effect of anti - drug antibody formation on the pharmacokinetic parameters of velaglucerase alfa is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential or studies to evaluate mutagenic potential have not been performed with velaglucerase alfa .
In a fertility study in male and female rats , velaglucerase alfa did not cause any significant adverse effect on male or female fertility parameters up to a maximum intravenous dose of 17 mg / kg ( 102 mg / m2 , about 1 . 8 times the recommended human dose of 60 Units / kg based on the body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Overview of Clinical Studies of VPRIV for Gaucher Disease The efficacy of VPRIV was assessed in three clinical trials in a total of 99 patients with type 1 Gaucher disease : 82 patients age 4 years and older received VPRIV and 17 patients age 3 years and older received imiglucerase .
Studies I and II were conducted in patients who were not currently receiving Gaucher disease - specific therapy .
Study III was conducted in patients who were receiving imiglucerase treatment immediately before starting VPRIV .
The long - term safety of VPRIV was assessed in Study IV , an open - label extension trial in a total of 93 patients with type 1 Gaucher disease ages 3 years and older .
Patients who had completed Studies I to III were eligible to participate in Study IV .
In Studies I through IV , VPRIV was administered intravenously over 60 minutes at a maximum dose of 60 Units / kg every other week .
Doses above 60 Units / kg were not studied in these trials .
14 . 2 Clinical Trials of VPRIV as Initial Therapy Study I was a 12 - month , randomized , double - blind , parallel - dose - group , multinational trial in 25 patients age 4 years and older with Gaucher disease - related anemia and either thrombocytopenia or organomegaly .
Patients were not allowed to have had disease - specific therapy for at least the previous 30 months ; all but one had no prior therapy .
The mean age was 26 years and 60 % were male .
Patients were randomized to receive VPRIV at a dose of either 45 Units / kg ( N = 13 ) or 60 Units / kg ( N = 12 ) every other week .
The recommended starting dose in naïve patients is 60 Units / kg .
The 45 Units / kg dosage is not recommended as a starting dose in naïve patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
At baseline , mean hemoglobin concentration was 10 . 6 g / dL , mean platelet count was 97 × 109 / L , mean liver volume was 3 . 6 % of body weight ( % BW ) , and mean spleen volume was 2 . 9 % BW .
For all studies , liver and spleen volumes were measured by MRI .
The changes in clinical parameters after 12 months of treatment are shown in Table 2 .
The observed change from baseline in the primary endpoint , hemoglobin concentration , was considered to be clinically meaningful in the 60 Units / kg dose , in light of the natural history of untreated Gaucher disease .
Table 2 : Mean Change from Baseline to Month 12 for Clinical Parameters in Patients with Type 1 Gaucher Disease Initiating Therapy with VPRIV Given Every Other Week in Study IClinical Parameter VPRIV 45 Units / kg [ 1 ] N = 13 Mean ± SE VPRIV 60 Units / kg N = 12 Mean ± SE SE = standard error of the mean Hemoglobin concentration change ( g / dL ) 2 . 4 ± 0 . 4 [ 2 ] 2 . 4 ± 0 . 3 [ 3 ] Platelet count change ( × 109 / L ) 41 ± 14 null 51 ± 12 null Liver volume change ( % BW ) - 0 . 30 ± 0 . 29 - 0 . 84 ± 0 . 33 Spleen volume change ( % BW ) - 1 . 9 ± 0 . 6 null - 1 . 9 ± 0 . 5 null [ 1 ] The recommended starting dose in naïve patients is 60 Units / kg .
The 45 Units / kg dosage is not recommended as a starting dose in naïve patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
[ 2 ] Statistically significant changes from baseline after adjusting for performing multiple tests [ 3 ] Primary study endpoint was hemoglobin concentration change in the 60 Units / kg group , p < 0 . 001 Study II was a 9 - month , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled ( imiglucerase ) , parallel - group , multinational study in 34 patients age 4 years and older .
Patients were required to have Gaucher disease - related anemia and either thrombocytopenia or organomegaly .
Patients were not allowed to have had disease - specific therapy for at least the previous 12 months .
The mean age was 30 years and 53 % were female ; the youngest patient who received VPRIV was age 4 years .
Patients were randomized to receive either 60 Units / kg of VPRIV ( N = 17 ) or 60 Units / kg of imiglucerase ( N = 17 ) every other week .
At baseline , the mean hemoglobin concentration was 11 . 0 g / dL , mean platelet count was 171 × 109 / L , and mean liver volume was 4 . 3 % BW .
For the patients who had not had splenectomy ( 7 in each group ) the mean spleen volume was 3 . 4 % BW .
After 9 months of treatment , the mean absolute increase from baseline in hemoglobin concentration was 1 . 6 g / dL ± 0 . 2 ( SE ) for patients treated with VPRIV .
The mean treatment difference in change from baseline to 9 months [ VPRIV – imiglucerase ] was 0 . 1 g / dL ± 0 . 4 ( SE ) .
In both studies , examination of age and gender subgroups did not identify differences in response to VPRIV among these subgroups .
The number of non - Caucasian patients in these studies was too small to adequately assess any difference in effects by race .
In Study IV , treatment naïve patients were administered VPRIV .
Treatment - naïve patients continued to show improvements in clinical parameters ( hemoglobin concentration , platelet count , liver volume , and spleen volume ) compared with baseline for up to 60 months of treatment with ERT .
14 . 3 Clinical Trial in Patients Switching from Imiglucerase Treatment to VPRIV Study III was a 12 - month , open - label , single - arm , multinational study in 40 patients age 9 years and older who had been receiving treatment with imiglucerase at doses ranging between 15 Units / kg to 60 Units / kg for a minimum of 30 consecutive months .
Patients also were required to have a stable biweekly dose of imiglucerase for at least 6 months prior to enrollment .
The mean age was 36 years and 55 % were female .
Imiglucerase therapy was stopped , and treatment with VPRIV was administered every other week at the same number of units as the patient ' s previous imiglucerase dose .
Adjustment of dosage was allowed by study criteria if needed in order to maintain clinical parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Hemoglobin concentrations and platelet counts remained stable on average through 12 months of VPRIV treatment .
After 12 months of treatment with VPRIV the median hemoglobin concentration was 13 . 5 g / dL ( range : 10 . 8 , 16 . 1 ) vs . the baseline value of 13 . 8 g / dL ( range : 10 . 4 , 16 . 5 ) , and the median platelet count after 12 months was 174 × 109 / L ( range : 24 , 408 ) vs . the baseline value of 162 × 109 / L ( range : 29 , 399 ) .
No patient required dosage adjustment during the 12 - month treatment period .
In Study IV , patients who had previously been receiving imiglucerase treatment were administered VPRIV .
Patients previously treated with imiglucerase maintained stability in clinical parameters ( hemoglobin concentration , platelet count , liver volume , and spleen volume ) compared with baseline for up to 60 months of treatment with ERT .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied VPRIV ( velaglucerase alfa ) for injection is a sterile , preservative free , white to off - white lyophilized powder requiring reconstitution and further dilution prior to use .
It is supplied in individually packaged single - dose glass vials , which are closed with a butyl rubber stopper with a fluoro - resin coating and are sealed with an aluminum overseal with a flip - off plastic cap .
VPRIV is available as : 400 units / vial ( NDC 54092 - 701 - 04 ) .
Storage Store VPRIV refrigerated at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not use VPRIV after the expiration date on the vial .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients that VPRIV is a treatment that is given intravenously every other week .
The infusion typically takes up to 60 minutes .
• Advise patients that VPRIV may cause hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 US License Number : 1898 VPRIV ® and VPRIV Logo ® are registered trademarks of Shire Human Genetic Therapies , Inc . , a Takeda company .
© 2021 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Patented : see www . takeda . com / en - us / patents VPR356 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 400 Unit Vial Box NDC 54092 - 701 - 04 VPRIV ® ( velaglucerase alfa ) for injection 400 units / vial Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous use only .
Takeda Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
