Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 1 . 25 mL ) Ibuprofen 50 mg ( NSAID ) * * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain reliever / Fever reducer Uses temporarily : • reduces fever • relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold , flu , sore throat , headaches and toothaches Warnings Allergy alert : Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if your child : • has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • takes a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • takes more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by doctor .
Do not use • if the child has ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to your child • child has a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • child has problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • child has not been drinking fluids • child has lost a lot of fluid due to vomiting or diarrhea • child has high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , or had a stroke • child has asthma • child is taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • side effects occur .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
• child experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feels faint • vomits blood • has bloody or black stools • has stomach pain that does not get better • child has symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • the child does not get any relief within first day ( 24 hours ) of treatment • fever or pain gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • do not give more than directed • shake well before using • find right dose on chart below .
If possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise use age .
• mL = milliliter • measure with the dosing device provided .
Do not use with any other device .
• dispense liquid slowly into the child ' s mouth , toward the inner cheek • if needed , repeat dose every 6 to 8 hours • do not use more than 4 times a day Dosing Chart Weight ( lb ) Age ( mos ) Dose ( mL ) under 6 mos ask a doctor 12 to 17 lbs 6 to 11 mos 1 . 25 mL 18 to 23 lbs 12 to 23 mos 1 . 875 mL Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , microcrystalline cellulose , natural and artificial berry fruit punch type flavor , polysorbate 80 , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution , sucrose , and xanthan gum .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Concentrated Motrin ® Infants ' Drops †† infants ' Ibuprofen CONCENTRATED IBUPROFEN ORAL SUSPENSION , USP ( NSAID ) 50 mg PER 1 . 25 mL PAIN RELIEVER / FEVER REDUCER Alcohol Free Dye - Free Non - staining • Lasts up to 8 hours AGES 6 - 23 MONTHS BERRY FLAVOR Use only with enclosed syringe FL OZ ( mL ) IMPORTANT : READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS BOX FOR IMPORTANT INFORMATION .
THIS PRODUCT IS INTENDED FOR USE IN CHILDREN AGES 6 MONTHS TO 23 MONTHS OF AGE .
†† This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Motrin ® .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
