Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies : - Sneezing - Runny nose - Nasal stuffiness - Post nasal drip - Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) - Promotes nasal and sinus drainage - Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes - Moisturizes dry nasal passages Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not reduced .
When used with tap water see instructions inside box for proper water sources .
When using this product : • Use by only one person • Wash with soap and water after each use • Top rack of dishwasher safe • Do not heat in microwave Keep out of reach of children Directions : Adults and children 4 years and over : use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl .
oz ( 240 mL ) up to every 2 hours as needed Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use Other information • Inspect saline packets for integrity • Do not use saline packets if open or torn • Protect saline packets from excessive heat and moisture • See saline packets or box for lot no .
and expiration date Inactive ingredients : none Questions ?
1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 Filter Data Model # ’ s : 91 - 40630 , 97 - 40630 , 98 - 40630 Manufacturer : Ascent Consumer Products Inc .
Melville NY 11737 888 - 547 - 5492 Distributed by : See Box for Information Filter Type : Mechanical Cyst Reduction Filter Maximum Operating Temperature : 100 degrees Fahrenheit Maximum Working Pressure : 5 psi Maximum Service Life : 50 gallons This product has been tested and certified to meet NSF / ANSI Standard 53 , a drinking water standard , for cyst reduction of 99 . 95 % and to be lead free .
For more information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) on water filters and sinus washing visit the CDC web site at : http : / / www . cdc . gov .
Micro - Filtered Sinus Wash System Please read instructions thoroughly before using and keep for future reference .
NEW !
BUILT IN WATER FILTER About the Micro - Filtered Sinus Wash System The Micro - Filtered Sinus Wash System is a revolutionary new product that makes receiving the proven benefits of sinus washing easier than ever .
The built in water filter meets the CDC recommendation for sinus washing with tap water * .
This provides peace of mind , while also eliminating the cost of bottled water or the inconvenience of boiling and pre - filtering tap water .
It also allows for easier temperature control of the saline solution for a soothing and more comfortable sinus wash The patent pending Micro - Filtered System incorporates additional innovations to maximize the comfort and convenience of sinus washing : • Inverted filter technology with anti - backflow valve uses a combination of gravity and positive pressure to provide an easy to control and comfortable flow of the saline solution .
• Ergonomically designed bottle and soft nasal tip are comfortable to use and easy to clean .
Frequently asked questions and important information about the Micro - Filtered Sinus Wash System Warning : Do not use Micro - Filtered System if nasal passages are completely blocked .
Preparing the Micro - Filtered System for first use Before first use rinse the bottle with warm tap water and empty .
Next fill bottle with warm tap water and place cap on bottle and tighten securely .
Holding the assembled bottle and cap over the sink , invert so comfort tip faces up and squeeze bottle several times until bottle is empty and no water flows from the comfort tip .
Repeat the filling and emptying process two additional times .
The Micro - Filtered System is now ready for use .
What type of water can be used in the Micro - Filtered System ?
In addition to distilled water or commercially bottled water the Micro - Filtered System can be used with tap water .
WARNING : The Micro - Filtered System is intended as a final filter for tap water that is known to be safe for drinking .
How do I clean the Micro - Filtered System ?
Do not clean any part of the Micro - Filtered System in the dishwasher .
Cleaning the bottle : Rinse the bottle out with water after each use and allow to dry .
Cleaning the comfort tip : Remove tip and clean with soap and water after each use .
Replace tip after cleaning .
Cleaning the cap : The outside of the cap can be rinsed with water and dried .
Can I share the Micro - Filtered System with friends and family ?
The Micro - Filtered System is intended for individual use and not to be shared .
How do I clean the Micro - Filtered System ?
Do not clean any part of the Micro - Filtered System in the dishwasher .
Cleaning the bottle : Rinse the bottle out with water after each use and allow to dry .
Cleaning the comfort tip : Remove tip and clean with soap and water after each use .
Replace tip after cleaning .
Cleaning the cap : The outside of the cap can be rinsed with water and dried .
Should I use an Isotonic or Hypertonic solution ?
The Micro - Filtered System can be used with the enclosed saline packets to make either an Isotonic or Hypertonic solution .
An Isotonic solution has a salt concentration similar to your body and some people find this more comfortable to use .
A Hypertonic solution is more concentrated , similar to the salt concentration of ocean water .
Both are beneficial to your sinus and nasal health .
Check with the guide below or consult with your physician for best use .
Check with the guide below or consult with your physician for best use .
Isotonic Solution 1 Saline Packet per 8 fl oz Hypertonic Solution 2 Saline Packets per 8 fl oz Helpful hints for a more comfortable sinus wash experience : • Begin using the Micro - Filtered System slowly – especially with children .
A full bottle of solution is not necessary to receive the full benefit .
• If the solution is too warm or too cold , the Sinus Wash will be uncomfortable .
• If stinging or irritation occurs , try using 1 packet of dry ingredients per bottle .
Gradually work up to using the solution at full strength using 2 full packets per bottle .
Do not use less than 1 packet .
• If you experience ear discomfort after use , try to blow your nose gently after the wash .
If the problem persists , the openings of your Eustachian tubes may be particularly wide and use of the system should be discontinued .
• Breathe continuously through the mouth when using the Sinus Wash System to avoid solution draining from the back of the nose into the mouth .
Instructions for Use : 1 .
Wash your hands and make sure the Micro - Filtered System has been prepared according to the instructions above before first use .
2 .
Pour the contents of the saline packet ( s ) into the bottle .
First - time users should start with 1 packet to make an Isotonic solution .
As you become more accustomed to using the system , you may work up to using 2 full packets for a Hypertonic solution .
Additional packets may be purchased online or from your nearest pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the bottle with warm tap water to the 8 oz mark indicated on the bottle .
Test water temperature before using .
7 .
In a few moments the solution will begin to drain out of the left nostril .
Continue to squeeze the bottle gently until you have used approximately half of the solution .
8 .
Remove the comfort tip from your nostril , then exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
9 .
Repeat the procedure on the left nostril with the remaining solution .
10 .
When finished hold the system inverted over sink and squeeze several times to remove solution remaining in cap .
11 .
Holding the cap assembly over the sink unscrew filter ( B ) by turning the white ring on bottom of cap counter clockwise while holding cap ( A ) .
Empty any remaining solution into the sink and allow to dry .
Reassemble the filter making sure the black O - ring ( C ) is seated above the filter base threads as shown in the illustration below .
After each use please clean system .
Clean the bottle : Rinse the bottle out with water and allow to dry .
Clean the comfort tip : Remove tip and clean with soap and water and reinstall .
Clean the cap : The outside of the cap can be rinsed with water and dried .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
