Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Each tablet contains potassium acid phosphate 305 mg and sodium acid phosphate , anhydrous , 700 mg .
Each tablet yields approximately 250 mg of phosphorus , 88 mg of potassium or 2 . 3 mEq and 134 mg of sodium or 5 . 8 mEq .
Inactive ingredients : Lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , purified water , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , talc , brown coating ( FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , polydextrose , titanium dioxide , triacetin ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phosphorus has a number of important functions in the biochemistry of the body .
The bulk of the body ' s phosphorus is located in the bones , where it plays a key role in osteoblastic and osteoclastic activities .
Enzymatically catalyzed phosphate - transfer reactions are numerous and vital in the metabolism of carbohydrate , lipid and protein , and a proper concentration of the anion is of primary importance in assuring an orderly biochemical sequence .
In addition , phosphorus plays an important role in modifying steady - state tissue concentrations of calcium .
Phosphate ions are important buffers of the intracellular fluid , and also play a primary role in the renal excretion of hydrogen ion .
Oral administration of inorganic phosphates increases serum phosphate levels .
Phosphates lower urinary calcium levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria .
In general , in adults , about two thirds of the ingested phosphate is absorbed from the bowel , most of which is rapidly excreted into the urine .
INDICATONS AND USAGE K - PHOS ® No . 2 is a highly effective urinary acidifier for use in patients with elevated urinary pH . This product helps keep calcium soluble and reduces odor and rash caused by ammoniacal urine .
Also , by acidifying the urine , it increases the antibacterial activity of methenamine mandelate and methenamine hippurate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with infected phosphate stones , in patients with severely impaired renal function ( less than 30 % of normal ) and in the presence of hyperphosphatemia .
PRECAUTIONS General This product contains potassium and sodium and should be used with caution if regulation of these elements is desired .
Occasionally , some individuals may experience a mild laxative effect during the first few days of phosphate therapy .
If laxation persists to an unpleasant degree , reduce the daily dosage until this effect subsides or , if necessary , discontinue the use of this product .
Use of this medication should be carefully considered when the following medical problems exist : Cardiac disease ( particularly in digitalized patients ) , Addison ' s disease , acute dehydration , extensive tissue breakdown , myotonia congenita , cardiac failure , cirrhosis of the liver or severe hepatic disease , peripheral and pulmonary edema , hypernatremia , hypertension , toxemia of pregnancy , hypoparathyroidism , and acute pancreatitis .
Rickets may benefit from phosphate therapy , but caution should be observed .
High serum phosphate levels increase the risk of extraskeletal calcification .
Information for Patients Patients with kidney stones may pass old stones when phosphate therapy is started and should be warned of this possibility .
Patients should be advised to avoid the use of antacids containing aluminum , magnesium , or calcium which may prevent the absorption of phosphate .
Laboratory Tests Careful monitoring of renal function and serum calcium , phosphorus , potassium and sodium may be required at periodic intervals during phosphate therapy .
Other tests may be warranted in some patients , depending on conditions .
Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium , aluminum , or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption .
Concurrent use of antihypertensives , especially diazoxide , guanethidine , hydralazine , methyldopa , or rauwolfia alkaloid ; or corticosteroids , especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin , with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia .
Potassium - containing medications or potassium - sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used wi t h potassium phosphate .
Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals .
Plasma levels of salicylates may be increased since salicylate excretion is decreased in acidified urine .
Administration of monobasic phosphates to patients stabilized on salicylates may lead to toxic salicylate levels .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term or reproduction studies in animals or humans have been performed with K - PHOS ® No . 2 to evaluate its carcinogenic , mutagenic , or impairment of fertility potential .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with K - PHOS ® No . 2 .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset ( diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain and vomiting ) may occur with phosphate therapy .
Also , bone and joint pain ( possible phosphate - induced osteomalacia ) could occur .
The following adverse effects may be observed ( primarily from sodium or potassium ) : headaches ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; seizures ; weakness or heaviness of legs ; unusual tiredness or weakness ; muscle cramps ; numbness , tingling , pain , or weakness of hands or feet ; numbness or tingling around lips ; fast or irregular heartbeat ; shortness of breath or troubled breathing ; swelling of feet or lower legs ; unusual weight gain ; low urine output ; unusual thirst .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet four times daily with a full glass of water .
When the urine is difficult to acidify , administer one tablet every two hours not to exceed 8 tablets in a 24 - hour period .
HOW SUPPLIED K - PHOS ® No . 2 is supplied as a brown , scored , capsule - shaped tablet with the name BEACH and the number 1134 imprinted on each tablet .
Bottles of 100 ( NDC 0486 - 1134 - 01 ) .
STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP ] Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closures .
Manufactured for : BEACH PHARMACEUTICALS , Div .
of Beach Products , Inc . , Tampa , FL 33611 Rev : 07 / 09 B PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 0486 - 1134 - 01 K - PHOS ® No . 2 URINARY ACIDIFIER Each tablet supplies 250 mg of phosphorus Rx ONLY 100 TABLETS Beach [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
