Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Uses For the temporary relief of pain .
Warnings For external use only Do not use if pouch is damaged or opened .
Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut , irritated skin on open wounds or sensitive skin for more than one week without consulting a doctor do not use more than one patch at a time do not use if you are allergic to lidocaine or any of the inactive ingredients below .
When using this product use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this package .
do not allow contact with the eyes do not bandage or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use do not reuse patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens rash , itching or skin irritation develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years of age Apply patch to affected area every 8 to 12 hours .
Children 12 years or younger Consult a physician before use .
Instructions for Use clean and dry affected area cut open pouch and remove the patch remove clear protective liner from the patch apply to affected area no more than three ( 3 ) times per day leave in place for up to 8 but no more than 12 hours wash hands thoroughly after applying or removing patch some individuals may not experience pain relief until several minutes or hours after applying a patch do not use other local anesthetic products in addition to this patch .
Storage Information Protect from freezing and excessive heat Store at 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Inactive Ingredients Crospovidone , emu oil , FD & C Blue # 1 , menthoxypropanediol , non - latex rubber based adhesive , non - woven backing fabric , polyester film .
DISTRIBUTED BY : NFI CONSUMER PRODUCTS 501 Fifth Street • Bristol , TN 37620 Toll Free : 800 - 432 - 9334 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Patch Carton RELIEF YOU CAN WEAR ™ BLUE - EMU ® No Mess !
Odor Free + Emu Oil 4 % Lidocaine Dry - Patch AMERICA ' S # 1 ODOR FREE EMU OIL FORMULA 3 PATCHES 2 . 5 " X 6 " [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
