[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Flexible Plastic Container Rx only DESCRIPTION Intravenous solution with potassium chloride ( I . V . solutions with KCl ) is a sterile and nonpyrogenic solution in water for injection .
This solution is for administration by intravenous infusion only .
See Table 1 below for summary of content and characteristics of this solution .
Table 1 COMPOSITION ( g / L ) Calculated Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP mEq Potassium Added Size ( mL ) Dextrose , Hydrous Potassium Chloride Sodium Chloride Sodium Lactate , Anhydrous Calcium Chloride Dihydrate 20 mEq 1000 50 1 . 79 6 3 . 1 0 . 2 563 pH Approx .
Ionic Concentrations ( mEq / L ) Approx .
kcal / L Calcium ( Ca + + ) Sodium ( Na + ) Potassium ( K + ) Chloride ( Cl - ) Lactate 4 . 9 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) 2 . 7 130 24 129 28 179 May contain HCl for pH adjustment .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and each is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
This solution is a parenteral fluid , nutrient and / or electrolyte replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Sodium Lactate , USP is chemically designated monosodium lactate [ CH3CH ( OH ) COONa ] , a 50 % aqueous solution miscible in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H20 .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in the moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , this solution provides a source of water and electrolytes with carbohydrate calories .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Sodium lactate provides sodium ( Na + ) and lactate ( C3H5O - ) ions .
The lactate anion is in equilibrium with pyruvate and has an alkalizing effect resulting from simultaneous removal by the liver of lactate and hydrogen ions .
In the liver , lactate is metabolized to glycogen which is ultimately converted to carbon dioxide and water by oxidative metabolism .
The sodium ( Na + ) ion combines with bicarbonate ion produced from carbon dioxide of the body and thus retains bicarbonate to combat metabolic acidosis ( bicarbonate deficiency ) .
The normal plasma level of lactate ranges from 0 . 9 to 1 . 9 mEqK / liter .
Intravenous solutions containing potassium chloride are particularly intended to provide needed potassium cation ( K + ) .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
A deficiency of either potassium or chloride will lead to a deficit of the other .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl - ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated in patients requiring parenteral administration of potassium chloride and the replacement of extracellular losses of fluids and electrolytes with minimal carbohydrate calories .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing potassium chloride are contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered .
Solutions containing lactate are NOT FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS .
WARNINGS Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered simultaneously through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
To avoid potassium intoxication , do not infuse these solutions rapidly .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency , administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate ions should be done with great care where there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate ions , as in severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Potassium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by serial electrocardiograms .
Plasma potassium levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
High plasma concentrations of potassium may cause death through cardiac depression , arrhythmias or arrest .
Potassium - containing solutions should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle ( or catheter ) is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose , potassium chloride or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection .
It is also not known whether dextrose , potassium chloride or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose , potassium chloride or Lactated Ringer ' s Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , flaccid paralysis , listlessness , mental confusion , weakness and heaviness of the legs , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves , spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest .
Potassium - containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues .
Therefore , extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration .
Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs .
Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported .
Should perivascular infiltration occur , I . V . administration at that site should be discontinued at once .
Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride , 1 % , to which hyaluronidase may be added , will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally .
Local application of heat may also be helpful .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of potassium overdosage , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute intensive corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution should be administered only by intravenous infusion and as directed by the physician .
The dose and rate of injection are dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
If the serum potassium level is greater than 2 . 5 mEq / liter , potassium should be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq / hour in a concentration less than 30 mEq / liter .
Somewhat faster rates and greater concentrations ( usually up to 40 mEq / liter ) of potassium may be indicated in patients with more severe potassium deficiency .
The total 24 - hour dose should not generally exceed 200 mEq of potassium .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts , and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride ( 20 mEq Added ) in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose freeflex ® plastic containers as follows : Product Code Unit of Use Unit of Sale 360236 NDC 65219 - 246 - 00 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag NDC 65219 - 246 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
Flexible Plastic Container ( freeflex ® bag ) To Open • Turn solution container over so that the text is face down .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
To Add Medication • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Insert needle horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 Made in Norway 451622 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us Issued : September 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Bag Label 20 mEq POTASSIUM ADDED 1000 mL NDC 65219 - 246 - 00 freeflex ® 20 mEq POTASSIUM CHLORIDE in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Case Label NDC 65219 - 246 - 10 360236 20 mEq Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 1000 mL x 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
