SUPPLEMENTAL FACTS Serving Size : 1 Capsule Amount Per Serving % Daily Value Iron ( Elemental ) 150 mg 833 % ( As Polysaccharide Iron Complex ) INDICATIONS : prevention and treatment of iron deficiency and / or other nutritional megaloblastic anemias WARNING : Keep this product out of reach of children .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Myferon 150 is indicated for the prevention and treatment of iron deficiency anemia and / or nutritional megaloblastic anemias .
WARNING : WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : One or two capsules daily or as prescribed by a physician .
Inactive Ingredients OTHER INGREDIENTS : D and C Red # 7 , D and C Red # 28 , D and C Yellow # 10 , FD and C Blue # 1 , FD and C Red # 40 , FD and C Yellow # 6 , Gelatin , Pharmaceutical Glaze , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Titanium Dioxide , Dicalcium Phosphate .
DESCRIPTION : Myferon 150 , Polysaccharide Iron Complex capsules are a preparation of ferric Iron complexed to a low molecular weight polysaccharide .
This polysaccharide is obtained by extensive hydrolysis of starch .
Myferon 150 is a dark brown powder that when dissolved in water , forms a very dark brown solution .
As an organic complex , polysaccharide iron contains no free iron .
It is tasteless , odorless and readily soluble in water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Iron is an essential compound in the formation of hemoglobin .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for the effective erythropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , including cytochromes that are involved in electron transport .
A radioiscope tracer study in man demonstrated that absorption of a polysacchride - iron is comparable to that of ferrous sulfate .
Clinical studies demonstrate that polysaccharide - iron produces good hematological response shown by increases in hemoglobin and hematocrit in children and adult patients .
Polysaccharide - iron is effective in maintaining the hematopoietic status in end - stage kidney disease patients receiving epoetin alfa therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Myferon 150 is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the components of this product .
Hemochromatosis and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy .
PRECAUTIONS : The type of anemia and the underlying cause or causes should be determined before initiating treatment with Myferon 150 .
Since the anemia may be a result of a systemic disturbance , such as recurrent blood loss , the underlying cause or causes should be corrected if possible .
As with all oral iron preparations , Myferon 150 should be stored out of the reach of children to protect against accidental iron poisoning .
Patients should not exceed the recommended dosage unless directed by a physician .
Patients should be informed that iron products can cause dark or black stools .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , dark stool and abdominal pain .
Adverse reactions with iron are usually transient .
OVERDOSE : The clinical cause of acute iron overdose can be variable .
Initial symptoms may include abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematemesis , hypotension , tachycardia , metabolic acidosis , hyperglycemia , dehydration , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , shock and coma .
Chronic toxicity studies in rats and dogs administered polysaccharide - iron complex showed that a daily dosage of 250 mg iron / kg for three months has no adverse effects .
The Oral LD 50 of polysaccharide - iron complex was estimated to be greater than 5000 mg .
iron / kg in rats .
HOW SUPPLIED : Myferon 150 capsules are supplied in unit dose blister packs , 10 capsules per card , orange / brown capsules .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Myferon 150 Product Label M . E . PHARMACEUTICALS , Inc .
58607 - 111 - 85 Myferon ™ 150 Polysaccharide Iron Complex Capsules 150 mg of elemental iron Well tolerated Well absorbed 100 Unit Dose Capsules Mfg by M . E . Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Richmond , IN 47374 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
