Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 1 . 25 mL ) Ibuprofen 50 mg ( NSAID ) * * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Pain reliever / Fever reducer Uses temporarily : • • reduces fever • • relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold , flu , sore throat , headaches and toothaches Warnings Allergy alert : Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • • hives • • facial swelling • • asthma ( wheezing ) • • shock • • skin reddening • • rash • • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if your child : • • has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • • takes a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • • takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • • takes more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by doctor .
Do not use • • if the child has ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer • • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • • stomach bleeding warning applies to your child • • child has a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • • child has problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • • child has not been drinking fluids • • child has lost a lot of fluid due to vomiting or diarrhea • • child has high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , or had a stroke • • child has asthma • • child is taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is • • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • • taking any other drug When using this product • • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • • side effects occur .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
• • child experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • • feels faint • • vomits blood • • has bloody or black stools • • has stomach pain that does not get better • • child has symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • • chest pain • • trouble breathing • • weakness in one part or side of body • • slurred speech • • leg swelling • • the child does not get any relief within first day ( 24 hours ) of treatment • • fever or pain gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • • any new symptoms appear Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • • do not give more than directed • • shake well before using • • find right dose on chart below .
If possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise use age .
• • mL = milliliter • • measure with the dosing device provided .
Do not use with any other device .
• • dispense liquid slowly into the child ' s mouth , toward the inner cheek • • if needed , repeat dose every 6 to 8 hours • • do not use more than 4 times a day Dosing Chart Weight ( lb ) Age ( mos ) Dose ( mL ) under 6 mos ask a doctor 12 to 17 lbs 6 to 11 mos 1 . 25 mL 18 to 23 lbs 12 to 23 mos 1 . 875 mL Other information • • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • • do not use if plastic bottle wrap imprinted “ sealed for your protection ” is broken or missing Inactive ingredients carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid anhydrous , glycerin , microcrystalline cellulose , natural and artificial berry fruit punch type flavor , polysorbate 80 , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution , sucrose , and xanthan gum .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Principal Display Panel Actavis Compare to the active ingredient in Concentrated Motrin ® Infants ’ Drops † NDC 71205 - 110 - 30 See New Warnings For Ages 6 Mos .
to 23 Mos .
Infants ’ Ibuprofen Concentrated Ibuprofen Oral Suspension , USP ( NSAID ) 50 mg per 1 . 25 mL Pain Reliever Fever Reducer Lasts up to 8 hours Non - Staining Use only with enclosed syringe Dye - Free Berry Flavor Alcohol Free ½ FL OZ ( 15 mL ) Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
