IMPORTANT PRESCRIBING INFORMATION January 13 , 2023 Temporary Importation of Cefotaxime for Injection to Address Drug Shortage Dear Healthcare Professional : Due to the current critical shortage of Cefotaxime for Injection products in the United States ( U . S . ) market , SteriMax Inc . ( SteriMax ) , in conjunction with Provepharm , Inc . ( Provepharm ) and Direct Success , Inc . ( Direct Success ) is coordinating with the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to increase the availability of the drug .
SteriMax has initiated temporary importation of non - FDA approved Cefotaxime for Injection ( 1 g / vial , and 2 g / vial ) into the U . S . market .
The Cefotaxime for Injection from SteriMax is marketed in Canada and is manufactured at an FDA - inspected facility that complies with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements .
At this time , no other entity except Provepharm or its distributor Direct Success is authorized by the FDA to import or distribute SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection in the United States .
FDA has not approved SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection in the United States .
Effective immediately , Provepharm will distribute the following presentations of SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection to address the critical shortage : Note : DIN refers to Drug Identification Number for products approved by Health Canada SteriMax Cefotaxime for Injection 1 g / vial ( as cefotaxime sodium ) DIN : 02434091 ( Canada ) NDC 21586 - 011 - 2 2 g / vial ( as cefotaxime sodium ) DIN : 02434105 ( Canada ) NDC 21586 - 012 - 2 The barcode on the imported product label may not register accurately on the U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the imported product information into their systems and confirm that the barcode , if scanned , provides correct information .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
In addition , the packaging of the imported product does not include serialization information .
SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection does not meet the Drug Supply Chain Security Act ( DSCSA ) requirements for the Interoperable Exchange of Information for Tracing of Human , Finished Prescription Drugs .
The vial and carton labels will display the text used and approved for marketing the products in Canada with both English and French translations .
It is important to note that there are differences in the format and content of the labeling between the US approved product and SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection .
Please see the product comparison tables at the end of this letter .
Cefotaxime for Injection is available only by prescription in the U . S . Please refer to the package insert for the FDA - approved Cefotaxime for Injection drug product for full prescribing information .
Finally , please ensure that your staff and others in your institution who may be involved in the administration of Cefotaxime for Injection receive a copy of this letter and review the information .
If you have any questions about the information contained in this letter , any quality related problems , or questions on the use of SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection , please contact SteriMax Inc .
Customer Service at 1 - 800 - 881 - 3550 .
To place an order , please contact Direct Success at Distribution @ DSuccess . com or 1 - 877 - 404 - 3338 .
Healthcare providers should report adverse events associated with the use of SteriMax ’ s Cefotaxime for Injection to Provepharm at 1 - 833 - 684 - 3234 .
Adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of this product may also be reported to the FDA ’ s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting Program either online , by regular mail , or by fax : • Complete and submit the report Online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail or Fax : Download form www . fda . gov / MedWatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form , then complete and return to the address on the pre - addressed form or submit by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 .
We remain at your disposal to answer any questions you may have about our product ; and provide more information if needed .
Sincerely , [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ritesh Acharya Executive Vice President , Scientific Affairs SteriMax Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cefotaxime for Injection - 1 g per vial Sterile / Stérile DIN 02234091 cefoTAXime sodium for Injection BP 1 g per vial Cefotaxime sodium powder for solution Intramuscular or Intravenous Use Antibiotic / Antibiotique LATEX FREE / SANS LATEX STERIMAX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cefotaxime for Injection - 2 g per vial Sterile / Stérile DIN 02434105 cefoTAXime sodium for Injection BP 2 g per vial Cefotaxime sodium powder for solution Intramuscular or Intravenous Use Antibiotic / Antibiotique LATEX FREE / SANS LATEX STERIMAX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
