Active Ingredients : Each Applicator Contains Silver Nitrate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 % Potassium Nitrate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25 % INDICATIONS : For cauterization of skin or mucous membrane and for removing warts and granulated tissue .
DIRECTIONS : The healthcare professional moistens the applicator tip with distilled water and applies it to the affected area .
The strength of the action is controlled by the dilution with distilled water .
One Grafco ® Silver Nitrate applicator is generally sufficient for each application .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Silver salts stain tissue black due to deposition of reduced silver .
The stain gradually disappears within a period of two weeks .
WARNINGS : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
The active ingredients are poisonous and may be fatal when ingested in sufficient doses .
The symptoms include toxic gastroenteritis , which may lead to coma , convulsion , paralysis and profound alteration of respiration .
If poisoning occurs , consult a physician .
In case of eye contact , hold eyes open and immediately flush thoroughly with water for at least 15 minutes and consult a physician .
CAUTION : FEDERAL LAW PROHIBITS DISPENSING WITHOUT PRESCRIPTION .
PRECAUTION : Prolonged ingestion or absorption of silver compounds ( organic or inorganic ) whether originating industrially or therapeutically leads to disposition of silver in connective tissues , producing a slate - blue discoloration of the skin known as argyria .
This discoloration may also appear on mucous membranes such as the margins of gums .
The sclera of the eye is also stained .
The nature of the pigment is not definitely known , it may be metallic silver or oxide .
This discoloration exists throughout life but does not cause any systematic symptoms .
While small patches may be removed , this method is so tedious and painful as to be impractical for large areas .
ACTION : Silver nitrate commonly employed as a caustic antiseptic and an astringent .
Potassium nitrate has been used as a topical antiseptic on mucous membranes .
The degree of action depends upon the concentration employed and the period of time during which the compound is allowed to act .
The silver nitrate is precipitated by chloride thus washing with a solution of sodium chloride can quickly stop the action of silver ions .
STORAGE : Store in the closed package at room temperature in a dry place and protected from light .
Silver nitrate will turn black upon exposure to light , however this does not affect the product ’ s potency or utility .
CHEMTREC 24 - HOUR EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS : DOMESTIC / NORTH AMERICA 800 - 424 - 9300 INTERNATIONAL 703 - 527 - 3887 ( CALL COLLECT ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Enter section text here [ MULTIMEDIA ]
