Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Warnings Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use And ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine .
ADA Council Statement The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of UP & UP blue mint antiseptic mouthwash is based on its finding that the product is efective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Adverse Reactions Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in the U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign components shop Target . com Guest Services 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 principal display panel SAFETY SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION ADA Accepted American Dential Association antiseptic mouthwash Kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque and the gum disease gingivitis Compare to Listerine Antiseptic Cool Mint BLUE MINT FLAVOR up & up 50 . 7 FL OZ ( 1 . 5 L ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
