ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Lidocaine 0 . 5 % External Analgesic Menthol 5 % External Analgesic / Counterirritant Capsaicin 0 . 0375 % External Analgesic Methyl Salicylate 2 % External Analgesic USES : Use for temporary relief of minor aches and muscle pains associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , sprains , muscle soreness and stiffness WARNINGS : • For external use only .
Use only as directed .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucus membranes • Do not use on wounds or damaged skin • Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist for more than seven days or clear up and occur again within a few days , or rahs , itching or excessive skin irritation occurs • Do not cover with bandage • Do no use if you are allergic to Menthol or Capsaicin • Consult physician for children under 12 DIRECTIONS : • Adults and children 12 years and over apply to affected area ; change patch 2 to 3 times daily • Children under 12 years , consult a physician before use • How to apply : • Clean and dry affected area • Cut open pouch and remove patch • If desired , cut patch to size • Remove protective film and apply directly to area of pain • Apply to affected area not more than 3 times daily • Wash hands with soap after applying patch • Reseal pouch containing unused patches INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Water , Glycerine , Sodium Polyacrylate , Polysorbate 80 , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , EDTA Disodium salt , Diazolidinyl Urea , Methylparaben , Iodopropynyl Butylcabamate , Propylparaben Store below 77 F ( 25 C ) Avoid direct sunlight Soothee Patch Better - Rx Manufacturing The potential exists for a small child or pet to suffer serious effect from chewing or ingesting a new or used Soothee Patch , although the risk with this formulation has not been evaluated .
It is important for pateints to store and dispose of Soothee Patch out of the reach of children , pets and others .
( See HANDLING AND DISPOSAL ) Excessive Dosing Excessive Dosing by applying Soothee Patch to larger areas for longer than recommmended wearing time could result in increased absorption and higher blood concentrations .
Longer duration of application , application of more than the recommended number of patches , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increasing the blood concentration .
PRECAUTIONS General Allergic Reactions Patients allergic to menthol or capsaicin or any other ingredient in Soothee Patch should not use the Soothee Patch .
Non - intact Skin Application tobroken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations from increased absorption .
Eye Exposure The contact of Soothee Patch with eyes , altough not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of sever eye irritations with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline .
Pregnancy Nursing Mothers Soothee Patch has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when administering the Soothee Patch to nursing mothers .
When soothee patch is used concurrently with other products in the same class Pediatric Use Soothee Patch Safety and effectiveness has not been established in pediatric patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Soothee Patch to intact skin to cover the area most sensitive to pain .
Apply up to four ( 4 ) patches per day .
Each patch should not be applied for more than 8 hours in a given 24 - hour period .
Patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the release liner .
Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
Smaller areas of treatment are recommended in a debilitated patient , or patient with impaired elimination .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , remove the patch and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When Soothee Patch is used concomitantly with other products containing same or similar agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
HANDLING AND DISPOSAL Hands should be washed after handling Soothee Patch , and eye contact with Soothee Patch should be avoided .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
Fold use patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Soothee Patch should be kept out of reach of children .
HOW SUPPLIED Soothee Patch ( Lidocaine 0 . 5 % / Menthol 5 % / Capsaicin 0 . 0375 % / Methyl Salicylate 2 % ) is available as the following : Box of 15 patches , packaged into 3 child - resistant envelopes ( 5 patches / envelope ) Patient Information Soothee Patch is dispensed by prescription ( Rx ) under medical supervision and direction Product Code : 69592 - 001 - 01 Better - Rx Manufacturing does not represent this product code to be a National Drug Codes ( NDC ) .
Product Codes are formatted according to standard industry practice , to meet the formatting requirements of pharmacy and health insurance computer systems .
Store below 77 F ( 25 C ) ; excursion permitted to 59 - 85 F ( 15 - 30 C ) See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Manufactured for : Better - Rx Manufacturing 122 E Rose Lane No . C Houston Tx 77076 For questions or comments please call 1 - 800 - 311 - 6046 March 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
