1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ETOPOPHOS is a topoisomerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with : • Refractory testicular tumors , in combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs .
( 1 ) • Small cell lung cancer , in combination with cisplatin , as first - line treatment .
( 1 ) 1 . 1 Refractory Testicular Tumors ETOPOPHOS is indicated , in combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs , for treatment of patients with refractory testicular tumors .
1 . 2 Small Cell Lung Cancer ETOPOPHOS is indicated , in combination with cisplatin , for first - line treatment of patients with small cell lung cancer .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Refractory testicular tumors : 50 to 100 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours on days 1 through 5 , or 100 mg / m2 administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours on days 1 , 3 , and 5 .
( 2 . 1 ) • Small cell lung cancer : 35 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours for 4 days or 50 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours for 5 days .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not give by bolus injection .
( 2 . 4 ) • Renal impairment : Reduce the recommended dose to 75 % in patients with creatinine clearance 15 to 50 mL / min .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Refractory Testicular Tumors The recommended dose of ETOPOPHOS is : • 50 to 100 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours on days 1 through 5 of each 21 - day ( or 28 - day cycle ) , or • 100 mg / m2 administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours on days 1 , 3 , and 5 of each 21 - day ( or 28 - day cycle ) .
2 . 2 Small Cell Lung Cancer The recommended dose of ETOPOPHOS is : • 35 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours for 4 days , or • 50 mg / m2 per day administered intravenously over 5 minutes to 3 . 5 hours for 5 days .
2 . 3 Dosage Modification In patients with a creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) 15 - 50 mL / min , administer 75 % of the recommended dose .
Data are not available in patients with CLcr less than 15 mL / min .
Consider further dose reduction in these patients .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Preparation • Reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol ; or Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol , using the quantity of diluent shown below : Vial Strength Volume of Diluent Final Concentration 100 mg 5 mL 20 mg / mL 10 mL 10 mg / mL • Following reconstitution , ETOPOPHOS can be further diluted to concentrations as low as 0 . 1 mg / mL with either 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
• Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Storage After reconstitution , store under the following conditions : • Refrigerated 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) for 7 days ; • Room temperature at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) for 24 hours following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; • Room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) for 48 hours following reconstitution with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with benzyl alcohol or Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride for Injection with benzyl alcohol .
Reconstituted ETOPOPHOS solutions further diluted as directed can be stored under refrigeration 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) or at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) for 24 hours .
Administration DO NOT GIVE ETOPOPHOS BY BOLUS INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
ETOPOPHOS solutions may be administered at infusion rates up to 3 . 5 hours .
Extravasation of ETOPOPHOS may result in swelling , pain , cellulitis , and necrosis including skin necrosis .
ETOPOPHOS is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , use of gloves is recommended .
If dermal contact occurs , immediately and thoroughly wash areas of skin contact with soap and water and flush mucosa with water .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 114 mg etoposide phosphate ( equivalent to 100 mg etoposide ) , white to off - white , lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
For injection : 114 mg etoposide phosphate ( equivalent to 100 mg etoposide ) , white to off - white , lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 , 11 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ETOPOPHOS is contraindicated in patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reaction to etoposide products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to etoposide products .
( 4 , 5 . 3 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Myelosuppression : Obtain complete blood counts prior to each cycle and more frequently as clinically indicated .
( 5 . 1 ) • Secondary leukemias : Can occur with long - term use .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis may occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - fetal toxicity : ETOPOPHOS can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of potential risk to the fetus and to use effective contraception during treatment with ETOPOPHOS and for 6 months after final dose .
Advise males to use effective contraception for 4 months , after the last dose of ETOPOPHOS .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression ETOPOPHOS causes myelosuppression that results in thrombocytopenia and neutropenia .
Fatal infections and bleeding have occurred .
Obtain complete blood counts prior to each cycle of ETOPOPHOS and more frequently as clinically indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Secondary Leukemias Secondary leukemias have occurred with long term use of ETOPOPHOS .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions ETOPOPHOS can cause hypersensitivity reactions , including rash , urticaria , pruritus , and anaphylaxis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , immediately interrupt ETOPOPHOS and institute supportive management .
Permanently discontinue ETOPOPHOS in patients who experience a severe hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on animal studies and its mechanism of action , ETOPOPHOS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Advise pregnant women of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ETOPOPHOS and for at least 6 months after the final dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception for 4 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Secondary leukemias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reaction is neutropenia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the Safety Call Center at 1 - 866 - 885 - 0690 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates , observed in the clinical trials of a drug , cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
ETOPOPHOS has been used as a single agent in clinical studies involving 206 patients with a variety of malignancies ( including one non - Hodgkin ’ s lymphoma ) and in combination with cisplatin in 60 patients with small cell lung cancer .
The most common adverse reaction was neutropenia .
Other Important Adverse Reactions Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities .
The severity of nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate , with treatment discontinuation required in 1 % of patients .
Nausea and vomiting are managed with standard antiemetic therapy .
Other Toxicities Other clinically important adverse reactions in clinical trials were : Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , constipation , dysphagia General : fever Ocular : transient cortical blindness , optic neuritis Respiratory : interstitial pneumonitis / pulmonary fibrosis Skin : pigmentation , radiation recall dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis Neurologic : seizure , aftertaste Hepatobiliary disorder : hepatotoxicity 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ETOPOPHOS .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Extravasation Extravasation , resulting in local soft tissue toxicity .
Extravasation of ETOPOPHOS can result in swelling , pain , cellulitis , and necrosis , including skin necrosis .
Acute Renal Failure Reversible cases of acute renal failure have been reported with administration of high dose ( 2220 mg / m2 ) ETOPOPHOS with total body irradiation used for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
The ETOPOPHOS formulation contains dextran 40 , which has been associated with acute renal failure when administered in high doses .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Warfarin : Co - administration of ETOPOPHOS with warfarin can result in elevated international normalized ratio ( INR ) .
Measure INR frequently .
Warfarin : Co - administration can result in elevated international normalized ratio ( INR ) .
Measure INR frequently .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Do not breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data and its mechanism of action , ETOPOPHOS can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Etoposide , the active moiety of etoposide phosphate is teratogenic in mice and rats ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Advise women of childbearing potential to avoid becoming pregnant .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In rats , an intravenous etoposide dose of 0 . 4 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 05 times of the 50 mg / m2 human dose based on body surface area [ BSA ] ) during organogenesis caused maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity , and teratogenicity ( skeletal abnormalities , exencephaly , encephalocele , and anophthalmia ) ; higher doses of 1 . 2 and 3 . 6 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 14 and 0 . 5 times the 50 mg / m2 human dose based on BSA ) resulted in 90 % and 100 % embryonic resorptions .
In mice , a single etoposide dose of 1 . 0 mg / kg ( approximately 0 . 06 times the 50 mg / m2 human dose based on BSA ) administered intraperitoneally on days 6 , 7 , or 8 of gestation caused embryotoxicity , cranial abnormalities , and major skeletal malformations .
An intraperitoneal dose of 1 . 5 mg / kg ( about 0 . 1 times the 50 mg / m2 human based on BSA ) on day 7 of gestation caused an increase in the incidence of intrauterine death and fetal malformations and a significant decrease in the average fetal body weight [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 2 Lactation There is no information regarding the presence of etoposide in human milk or its effects on breastfed infant milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ETOPOPHOS , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ETOPOPHOS .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ETOPOPHOS and for 6 months after the final dose .
Males ETOPOPHOS may damage spermatozoa and testicular tissue , resulting in possible genetic fetal abnormalities .
Males with female sexual partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during treatment with ETOPOPHOS and for 4 months after the final dose .
Infertility Females In females of reproductive potential , ETOPOPHOS may cause infertility and result in amenorrhea .
Premature menopause can occur with ETOPOPHOS .
Recovery of menses and ovulation is related to age at treatment .
Males In male patients , ETOPOPHOS may result in oligospermia , azoospermia , and permanent loss of fertility .
Sperm counts have been reported to return to normal levels in some men , and in some cases , have occurred several years after the end of therapy [ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of etoposide did not include sufficient numbers ( n = 71 ) of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE No antidote has been established for ETOPOPHOS overdosage in humans .
Based on animal studies , overdosage may result in neurotoxicity .
11 DESCRIPTION ETOPOPHOS ( etoposide phosphate ) is a topoisomerase inhibitor .
The chemical name for etoposide phosphate is : 4 ' - Demethylepipodophyllotoxin 9 - [ 4 , 6 - O - ( R ) - ethylidene - β - D - glucopyranoside ] , 4 ' ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
Etoposide phosphate has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Etoposide phosphate is a phosphate ester of etoposide , a semi - synthetic derivative of podophyllotoxin .
ETOPOPHOS is available for intravenous infusion as a sterile lyophilized powder in single - dose vials for reconstitution containing 114 mg etoposide phosphate , equivalent to 100 mg etoposide , 32 . 7 mg sodium citrate USP , and 300 mg dextran 40 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Etoposide phosphate is a prodrug that is converted to its active moiety , etoposide , by dephosphorylation .
Etoposide causes the induction of DNA strand breaks by an interaction with DNA - topoisomerase II or the formation of free radicals , leading to cell cycle arrest , primarily at the G2 stage of the cell cycle , and cell death .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following intravenous administration of 90 , 100 , and 110 mg / m2 dose of ETOPOPHOS over 60 minutes , mean nadir values ( expressed as percent decrease from baseline ) for granulocytes , hemoglobin , and thrombocytes were 81 . 0 ± 16 . 5 % , 21 . 4 ± 9 . 9 % , and 44 . 1 ± 20 . 7 % , respectively .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following intravenous administration of an etoposide formulation , the area under the concentration time curve ( AUC ) and maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) values increased linearly and etoposide did not accumulate in the plasma following daily administration for 4 to 5 days .
Distribution Following administration of an injectable etoposide formulation , the mean volume of distribution of etoposide at steady state was 18 to 29 liters .
Etoposide enters the CSF poorly .
In vitro , etoposide is 97 % bound to human plasma proteins , primarily albumin .
Elimination The terminal elimination half - life of etoposide ranges from 4 to 11 hours .
Total body clearance values range from 33 to 48 mL / min .
Metabolism Following intravenous administration of ETOPOPHOS , etoposide phosphate is completely converted to etoposide in plasma .
Etoposide is metabolized by opening of the lactone ring , O - demethylation , and conjugation ( i . e . , glucuronidation and sulfation ) .
O - demethylation occurs through the CYP450 3A4 isoenzyme pathway to produce the active catechol metabolite .
Excretion At 120 hours after intravenous administration of radiolabeled etoposide formulation , the mean recovery of radioactivity in the urine was 56 % of the dose , 45 % of which was excreted as etoposide and 8 % or less as metabolites .
Fecal recovery of radioactivity was 44 % of the dose .
Specific Populations Following intravenous administration of etoposide in adults , the total body clearance of etoposide was correlated with creatinine clearance , serum albumin concentration , and non - renal clearance .
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of etoposide were observed based on age and sex .
Drug Interaction Studies Cisplatin : Co - administration of cisplatin may increase exposure to etoposide .
Highly protein - bound drugs : Phenylbutazone , sodium salicylate , and aspirin displaced protein - bound etoposide in vitro .
Select antiepileptic medications : Co - administration with antiepileptic medications including phenytoin , phenobarbital , carbamazepine , and valproic acid may increase etoposide clearance .
Etoposide may be a substrate of the P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) transporter system based upon in vitro studies .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ETOPOPHOS was non - mutagenic in an in vitro Ames microbial mutagenicity assay ; however , ETOPOPHOS is rapidly and completely converted to etoposide in vivo .
Therefore , as etoposide is mutagenic in the Ames assay , ETOPOPHOS is considered mutagenic in vivo .
In rats , oral dosing of ETOPOPHOS for 5 consecutive days at doses greater than or equal to 86 mg / kg / day ( about 10 times the 50 mg / m2 human dose based on BSA ) resulted in irreversible testicular atrophy .
Irreversible testicular atrophy was also present in rats treated with ETOPOPHOS intravenously for 30 days at 5 . 11 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 5 times the 50 mg / m2 human dose based on BSA ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Study 1 was a multicenter trial in patients , with previously untreated , small cell lung cancer , randomized ( 1 : 1 ) to receive either etoposide phosphate ( 80 mg / m2 / day ) plus cisplatin ( 20 mg / m2 / day ) for 5 days , or etoposide ( 80 mg / m2 / day ) plus cisplatin ( 20 mg / m2 / day ) .
The major efficacy outcome measure was objective response rate ( ORR ) .
Among the 121 patients enrolled , the median age was 64 years , 65 % of patients were male , 89 % were White , and ECOG performance score was 0 to 2 .
Study 1 demonstrated an overall response rate of 61 % ( 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] 47 , 73 ) for patients treated with etoposide phosphate plus cisplatin , and 58 % ( 95 % CI : 45 , 71 ) for those receiving etoposide plus cisplatin .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied / Storage ETOPOPHOS is supplied as a single - dose vial containing etoposide phosphate equivalent to 100 mg etoposide as a lyophilized powder for reconstitution , individually packaged in a carton : NDC 61269 - 410 - 20 Store unopened vials at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Keep vial in outer carton to protect from light .
Handling ETOPOPHOS is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Myelosuppression • Advise patients that periodic monitoring of their blood counts is required .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for new onset of bleeding , fever , or symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and 6 months after treatment with ETOPOPHOS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise males with female sexual partners of reproductive potential to use condoms during treatment with ETOPOPHOS and for at least 4 months after the final dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) andUse in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Licensed by : CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 17489 Greifswald , Germany Product of Germany Distributed by : H2 - Pharma , LLC Montgomery , AL 36117 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ETOPOPHOS 100 mg for Injection Representative Packaging See How Supplied section for a complete list of available packages of ETOPOPHOS .
NDC 61269 - 410 - 20 Single - Dose Vial ETOPOPHOS ® ( etoposide phosphate ) for Injection For IV use Etoposide phosphate equivalent to 100 mg etoposide Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
