DESCRIPTION Halobetasol Propionate Cream , 0 . 05 % contains halobetasol propionate , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatological use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agent .
Chemically halobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 - 20 - dione , 17 - propionate , C25H31ClF2O5 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Halobetasol propionate has the molecular weight of 485 .
It is a white crystalline powder insoluble in water .
Each gram of Halobetasol Propionate Cream contains 0 . 5 mg / g of halobetasol propionate in a cream base of cetyl alcohol , glycerin , isopropyl isostearate , isopropyl palmitate , steareth - 21 , diazolidinyl urea , methylchloroisothiazolinone , ( and ) methylisothiazolinone and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , halobetasol propionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Human and animal studies indicate that less than 6 % of the applied dose of halobetasol propionate enters the circulation within 96 hours following topical administration of the cream .
Studies performed with halobetasol propionate cream indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Halobetasol Propionate Cream , 0 . 05 % is a super - high potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Treatment beyond two consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g / week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Use in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Halobetasol Propionate Cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free - cortisol tests .
Patients receiving super potent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA suppression .
Halobetasol Propionate Cream produced HPA axis suppression when used in divided doses at 7 grams per day for one week in patients with psoriasis .
These effects were reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , Halobetasol Propionate Cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Halobetasol Propionate Cream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Halobetasol Propionate Cream should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and it should not be used on the face , groin , or in the axillae .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • The medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• The medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH - stimulation test ; A . M . plasma cortisol test ; Urinary free - cortisol test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of halobetasol propionate .
Positive mutagenicity effects were observed in two genotoxicity assays .
Halobetasol propionate was positive in a Chinese hamster micronucleus test , and in a mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay in vitro .
Studies in the rat following oral administration at dose levels up to 50 µg / kg / day indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
In other genotoxicity testing , halobetasol propionate was not found to be genotoxic in the Ames / Salmonella assay , in the sister chromatid exchange test in somatic cells of the Chinese hamster , in chromosome aberration studies of germinal and somatic cells of rodents , and in a mammalian spot test to determine point mutations .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Halobetasol propionate has been shown to be teratogenic in SPF rats and chinchilla - type rabbits when given systemically during gestation at doses of 0 . 04 to 0 . 1 mg / kg in rats and 0 . 01 mg / kg in rabbits .
These doses are approximately 13 , 33 and 3 times , respectively , the human topical dose of halobetasol propionate cream .
Halobetasol propionate was embryotoxic in rabbits but not in rats .
Cleft palate was observed in both rats and rabbits .
Omphalocele was seen in rats , but not in rabbits .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of halobetasol propionate in pregnant women .
Halobetasol Propionate Cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Halobetasol Propionate Cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Halobetasol Propionate Cream in pediatric patients have not been established and use in pediatric patients under 12 is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Of approximately 400 patients treated with Halobetasol Propionate Cream in clinical studies , 25 % were 61 years and over and 6 % were 71 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients ; and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse events reported for Halobetasol Propionate Cream included stinging , burning or itching in 4 . 4 % of the patients .
Less frequently reported adverse reactions were dry skin , erythema , skin atrophy , leukoderma , vesicles and rash .
The following additional local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with high potency corticosteroids , such as Halobetasol Propionate Cream .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Halobetasol Propionate Cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of Halobetasol Propionate Cream to the affected skin once or twice daily , as directed by your physician , and rub in gently and completely .
Halobetasol Propionate Cream is a super - high potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , treatment should be limited to two weeks , and amounts greater than 50 g / wk should not be used .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Halobetasol Propionate Cream should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Halobetasol Propionate Cream , 0 . 05 % is supplied in thefollowing tube sizes : 15 g ( NDC 42254 - 250 - 15 ) STORAGE Store between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
G & W Laboratroies , Inc .
South Plainfield , NJ 07080 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp .
Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
