Multiple - dose Plastic Vial WARNING : NOT FOR USE IN NEONATES .
DESCRIPTION The following preparation is designed solely for parenteral use only after addition of drugs that require dilution or must be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle prior to injection .
Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection containing 0 . 9 % ( 9 mg / mL ) of benzyl alcohol added as a bacteriostatic preservative .
It is supplied in a multiple - dose container from which repeated withdrawals may be made to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection .
The pH is 5 . 7 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H 2 O .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper labeled volume .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
The small volume of fluid provided by Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP when used only as a pharmaceutic aid for diluting or dissolving drugs for parenteral injection , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid balance except possibly in very small infants .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Due to the potential toxicity of benzyl alcohol in neonates , solutions containing benzyl alcohol must not be used in this patient population .
Parenteral preparations with benzyl alcohol should not be used for fluid replacement .
Parenteral preparations containing benzyl alcohol should not be used in epidural or spinal anesthesia procedures .
Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use .
WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol , a preservative in Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP has been associated with toxicity in neonates .
Data are unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group .
Where water is required for preparing or diluting medications for use in neonates , only preservative - free Sterile Water for Injection should be used .
Intravenous administration of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP for intravenous injection unless the osmolar concentration of additives results in an approximate isotonic admixture .
Consult the manufacturer ' s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection .
It is also not known whether Bacteriostatic Water for Injection containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP containing additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP have not been established in pediatric patients .
Due to the potential for toxicity , solutions containing benzyl alcohol should not be used in neonates .
Drug Interactions Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , or when combined in the same vehicle or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for single or multiple entry and withdrawal from all containers .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
Although adverse reactions to intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection of 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol are not known to occur in man , experimental studies of small volume parenteral preparations containing 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol in several species of animals have indicated that an estimated intravenous dose up to 30 mL may be safely given to an adult without toxic effects .
Administration of an estimated 9 mL to a 6 kg infant or neonate is potentially capable of producing blood pressure changes .
OVERDOSAGE Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of fluid overload except possibly in very small infants .
In the event these should occur , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Unit of Sale Benzyl Alcohol Preservative Concentration Each NDC 0409 - 3977 - 03 Tray of 25 9 mg / mL NDC 0409 - 3977 - 01 Multiple - dose 30 mL plastic fliptop vial Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Revised : 10 / 2013 EN - 3371 Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Vial Label 30 mL Multiple - dose BACTERIOSTATIC WATER for Injection , USP NOT FOR USE IN NEONATES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] OUTER PACKAGE LABEL NDC 71872 - 7129 - 1 Rx Only Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP 1 x 30 mL Multiple - dose Vial FOR DRUG DILUENT USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
