Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Lidocaine 3 . 25 % Cream is a topical anesthetic indicated for the relief of pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness , and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Each gram of Lidocaine 3 . 25 % Cream contains lidocaine hydrochloride 3 . 25 % ( 32 . 5 mg ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : aluminum sulfate , calcium acetate , cetyl alcohol , glycerine , glyceryl monostearate SE , methyl paraben , mineral oil , propyl paraben , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan stearate , stearic acid , stearyl alcohol , and white petrolatum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : MECHANISM OF ACTION : Lidocaine 3 . 25 % Cream releases lidocaine from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritations and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure ..
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PHARMACOKINETICS : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics , but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS : Anesthetic for relief of pruritus , pruritic eczemas , abrasions , minor burns , insect bites , pain , soreness and discomfort due to pruritus ani , pruritus vulvae , hemorrhoids , anal fissures , and similar conditions of the skin and mucous membranes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS : If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Lidocaine 3 % Cream should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY : Teratogenic Effects ; Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed for lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS : Lidocaine is excreted in human milk .
The clinical significance of this observation is unknown .
Caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Dosage in pediatric patients should be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
CALL YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Lidocaine 3 . 25 % Cream is supplied as a white cream in : 3 oz .
( 85 g ) tubes , NDC 69054 - 231 - 03 .
1 oz .
( 28 g ) tubes , NDC 69054 - 231 - 01 .
STORAGE AND HANDLING : KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Adler - Stern Pharmaceuticals , LLC Tampa , FL 33629 Rev 10 / 14 Rx Only Adler - Stern Pharmaceuticals , LLC PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC - 69054 - 231 - 03 Net Wt .
3 oz .
( 85 g ) Lidocaine 3 . 25 % Cream Topical Anesthetic FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
ADLER STERN PHARMACEUTICALS LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
