DESCRIPTION Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules , USP , the original Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and prototype for the benzodiazepine compounds , was synthesized and developed at Hoffmann - La Roche Inc .
It is a versatile therapeutic agent of proven value for the relief of anxiety .
Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsule is among the safer of the effective psychopharmacologic compounds available , as demonstrated by extensive clinical evidence .
Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride is available as capsules containing 5 mg , 10 mg or 25 mg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride .
Each capsule also contains corn starch , lactose monohydrate and talc .
Gelatin capsule shells may contain methyl and propyl parabens , Titanium Dioxide , Gelatin and potassium sorbate , with the following dye systems : 5 - mg capsules - FD and C Yellow No . 6 plus D and C Yellow No . 10 and FD and C Green No . 3 .
10 - mg capsules - D and C Yellow No . 10 , FD and C Blue No . 1 , FD and C Green No . 3 , FD and C Yellow No . 6 plus FD and C Red No . 40 .
25 - mg capsules - D and C Yellow No . 10 and FD and C Green No . 3 .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is 7 - chloro - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 5 - phenyl - 3 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepine 4 - oxide hydrochloride .
A white to practically white crystalline substance , it is soluble in water .
It is unstable in solution and the powder must be protected from light .
The molecular weight is 336 . 22 .
The structural formula of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has antianxiety , sedative , appetite - stimulating and weak analgesic actions .
The precise mechanism of action is not known .
The drug blocks EEG arousal from stimulation of the brain stem reticular formation .
It takes several hours for peak blood levels to be reached and the half - life of the drug is between 24 and 48 hours .
After the drug is discontinued plasma levels decline slowly over a period of several days .
Chlordiazepoxide is excreted in the urine , with 1 % to 2 % unchanged and 3 % to 6 % as conjugate .
Animal Pharmacology : The drug has been studied extensively in many species of animals and these studies are suggestive of action on the limbic system of the brain , which recent evidence indicates is involved in emotional responses .
Hostile monkeys were made tame by oral drug doses which did not cause sedation .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride revealed a “ taming ” action with the elimination of fear and aggression .
The taming effect of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride was further demonstrated in rats made vicious by lesions in the septal area of the brain .
The drug dosage which effectively blocked the vicious reaction was well below the dose which caused sedation in these animals .
The LD50 of parenterally administered chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride was determined in mice ( 72 hours ) and rats ( 5 days ) , and calculated according to the method of Miller and Tainter , with the following results : mice , IV , 123 ± 12 mg / kg ; mice , IM , 366 ± 7 mg / kg ; rats , IV , 120 ± 7 mg / kg ; rats , IM , greater than 160 mg / kg .
Effects on Reproduction : Reproduction studies in rats fed 10 , 20 and 80 mg / kg daily and bred through one or two matings showed no congenital anomalies , nor were there adverse effects on lactation of the dams or growth of the newborn .
However , in another study at 100 mg / kg daily there was noted a significant decrease in the fertilization rate and a marked decrease in the viability and body weight of offspring which may be attributable to sedative activity , thus resulting in lack of interest in mating and lessened maternal nursing and care of the young .
One neonate in each of the first and second matings in the rat reproduction study at the 100 mg / kg dose exhibited major skeletal defects .
Further studies are in progress to determine the significance of these findings .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsule is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short term relief of symptoms of anxiety , withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism , and preoperative apprehension and anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsule in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsule is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
Similarly , it may impair mental alertness in children .
The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may have an additive effect .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE WARNED ACCORDINGLY .
Usage in Pregnancy : An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
PRECAUTIONS In elderly and debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 10 mg or less per day initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
In general , the concomitant administration of Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and other psychotropic agents is not recommended .
If such combination therapy seems indicated , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed - particularly when the known potentiating compounds such as MAO inhibitors and phenothiazines are to be used .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
Paradoxical reactions , e . g . , excitement , stimulation and acute rage , have been reported in psychiatric patients and in hyperactive aggressive pediatric patients , and should be watched for during Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride therapy .
The usual precautions are indicated when Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is used in the treatment of anxiety states where there is any evidence of impending depression ; it should be borne in mind that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
Although clinical studies have not established a cause and effect relationship , physicians should be aware that variable effects on blood coagulation have been reported very rarely in patients receiving oral anticoagulants and Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride .
In view of isolated reports associating chlordiazepoxide with exacerbation of porphyria , caution should be exercised in prescribing chlordiazepoxide to patients suffering from this disease .
Pediatric Use : Because of the varied response of pediatric patients to CNS - acting drugs , therapy should be initiated with the lowest dose and increased as required ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Since clinical experience with Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride in pediatric patients under 6 years of age is limited , use in this age group is not recommended .
Hyperactive aggressive pediatric patients should be monitored for paradoxical reactions to Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Information for Patients : To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare .
Drowsiness , ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients - particularly the elderly and debilitated .
While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment , they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges .
In a few instances syncope has been reported .
Other adverse reactions reported during therapy include isolated instances of skin eruptions , edema , minor menstrual irregularities , nausea and constipation , extra pyramidal symptoms , as well as increased and decreased libido .
Such side effects have been infrequent , and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage .
Changes in EEG patterns ( low - voltage fast activity ) have been observed in patients during and after Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment .
Blood dyscrasias ( including agranulocytosis ) , jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy .
When Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride capsules are classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of chlordiazepoxide .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving chlordiazepoxide or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride overdosage include somnolence , confusion , coma and diminished reflexes .
Respiration , pulse and blood pressure should be monitored , as in all cases of drug overdosage , although , in general , these effects have been minimal following Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride overdosage .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with immediate gastric lavage .
Intravenous fluids should be administered and an adequate airway maintained .
Hypotension may be combated by the use of Levophed ® ( norepinephrine ) or Aramine ( metaraminol ) .
Dialysis is of limited value .
There have been occasional reports of excitation in patients following chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride overdosage ; if this occurs barbiturates should not be used .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine - receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for resedation , respiratory depression and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in longterm benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert , including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of the wide range of clinical indications for Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsule the optimum dosage varies with the diagnosis and response of the individual patient .
The dosage , therefore , should be individualized for maximum beneficial effects .
ADULTS USUAL DAILY DOSE Relief of Mild and Moderate Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 5 mg or 10 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Relief of Severe Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 20 mg or 25 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Geriatric Patients , or in the presence of debilitating disease .
5 mg , 2 to 4 times daily Preoperative Apprehension and Anxiety : On days preceding surgery , 5 to 10 mg orally , 3 or 4 times daily .
If used as preoperative medication , 50 to 100 mg IM * 1 hour prior to surgery .
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS USUAL DAILY DOSE Because of the varied response of pediatric patients to CNS - acting drugs , therapy should be initiated with the lowest dose and increased as required .
Since clinical experience in pediatric patients under 6 years of age is limited , the use of the drug in this age group is not recommended .
5 mg , 2 to 4 times daily ( may be increased in some pediatric patients to 10 mg , 2 to 3 times daily ) For the relief of withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism , the parenteral form * is usually used initially .
If the drug is administered orally , the suggested initial dose is 50 to 100 mg , to be followed by repeated doses as needed until agitation is controlled - up to 300 mg per day .
Dosage should then be reduced to maintenance levels .
* See package insert for Injectable .
Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride .
HOW SUPPLIED Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride .
Capsules are available in the following presentations : 5 mg hard gelatin capsules in bottles of 90 ( NDC 42291 - 210 - 90 ) , with S251 imprinted on the opaque green cap and Solco ’ s logo “ S ” imprinted on the opaque yellow body .
10 mg hard gelatin capsules in bottles of 90 ( NDC 42291 - 211 - 90 ) , with S252 imprinted on the opaque black cap and Solco ’ s logo “ S ” imprinted on the opaque green body .
25 mg hard gelatin capsules in bottles of 90 ( NDC 42291 - 212 - 90 ) , with S253 imprinted on the opaque green cap and Solco ’ s logo “ S ” imprinted on the opaque white body .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C – 30 ° C ( 59 ° F – 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 10 / 12 AV Rev . 02 / 15 ( P ) MEDICATION GUIDE MEDICATION GUIDE Chlordiazepoxide ( KLOR - dye - AZ - e - POX - ide ) Hydrochloride Capsules , C - IV What is the most important information I should know about chlordiazepoxide ?
• • Chlordiazepoxide is a benzodiazepine medicine .
Taking benzodiazepines with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
• • Chlordiazepoxide can make you sleepy or dizzy , and can slow your thinking and motor skills .
• oDo not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how chlordiazepoxide affects you .
• oDo not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking chlordiazepoxide without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , chlordiazepoxide may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
• • Do not take more chlordiazepoxide than prescribed .
What is chlordiazepoxide ?
• • Chlordiazepoxide is a prescription medicine used : • oto treat anxiety disorders • ofor the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety • oto treat withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism • opreoperatively to treat apprehension and anxiety • • Chlordiazepoxide is a federal controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep chlordiazepoxide in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away chlordiazepoxide may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• • It is not known if chlordiazepoxide is safe and effective in children under 6 years of age .
• • It is not known if chlordiazepoxide is safe and effective for use for longer than 4 months .
Do not take chlordiazepoxide if you are allergic to chlordiazepoxide or to any of the ingredients in chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride capsules .
Before you take chlordiazepoxide , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • • have liver or kidney problems • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Chlordiazepoxide may harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take chlordiazepoxide while you are pregnant • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Chlordiazepoxide may pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take chlordiazepoxide .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking chlordiazepoxide with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well chlordiazepoxide or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
How should I take chlordiazepoxide ?
• • Take chlordiazepoxide exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much chlordiazepoxide to take and when to take it .
• • If you take too much chlordiazepoxide , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking chlordiazepoxide ?
• • Chlordiazepoxide can cause you to be drowsy .
Do not drive a car or operate heavy machinery until you know how chlordiazepoxide affects you .
• • You should not drink alcohol while taking chlordiazepoxide .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of chlordiazepoxide ?
Chlordiazepoxide may cause serious side effects , including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about chlordiazepoxide ? ”
• • Abuse and dependence .
Taking chlordiazepoxide can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Physical and psychological dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• • Withdrawal symptoms .
You may have withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking chlordiazepoxide suddenly .
Withdrawal symptoms can be serious and include seizures .
Mild withdrawal symptoms include a depressed mood and trouble sleeping .
Talk to your healthcare provider about slowly stopping chlordiazepoxide to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
The most common side effects of chlordiazepoxide include : • • drowsiness • • loss of control of body movements ( ataxia ) • • confusion These are not all the possible side effects of chlordiazepoxide .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store chlordiazepoxide ?
• • Store chlordiazepoxide at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride capsules in a tightly closed container and out of the light .
• • Keep chlordiazepoxide and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of chlordiazepoxide .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use chlordiazepoxide for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give chlordiazepoxide to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about chlordiazepoxide that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride capsules ?
Active ingredient : chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , D & C yellow no . 10 , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C green no . 3 , gelatin , propylparaben , methylparaben , talc , potassium sorbate , and titanium dioxide .
The 10 mg also contain D & C yellow no . 6 , and FD & C red no . 40 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 8 / 2016 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 10 mg 25 mg 30 - 43353 - 699 - 30 60 43353 - 969 - 53 43353 - 699 - 53 90 - 43353 - 699 - 60 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20171127 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 43353 - 969 - Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride 10 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 43353 - 699 - Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride 25 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
