WARNING : BLEEDING RISK • Warfarin sodium can cause major or fatal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Drugs , dietary changes , and other factors affect INR levels achieved with warfarin sodium therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
WARNING : BLEEDING RISK See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Warfarin sodium can cause major or fatal bleeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients .
( 2 . 1 ) • Drugs , dietary changes , and other factors affect INR levels achieved with warfarin sodium therapy .
( 7 ) • Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding .
( 17 ) Contraindications ( 4 ) 10 / 2011 Warnings and Precautions , Use in Pregnant Women with Mechanical Heart Valves ( 5 . 5 ) 10 / 2011 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Warfarin sodium tablets , USP are indicated for : • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension , pulmonary embolism ( PE ) .
• Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ) and / or cardiac valve replacement .
• Reduction in the risk of death , recurrent myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction .
Warfarin sodium is a vitamin K antagonist indicated for : • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension , pulmonary embolism ( 1 ) • Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation and / or cardiac valve replacement ( 1 ) • Reduction in the risk of death , recurrent myocardial infarction , and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction ( 1 ) Limitation of Use Warfarin sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus , nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus , nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage .
Once a thrombus has occurred , however , the goals of anticoagulant treatment are to prevent further extension of the formed clot and to prevent secondary thromboembolic complications that may result in serious and possibly fatal sequelae .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Individualize dosing regimen for each patient , and adjust based on INR response .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Knowledge of genotype can inform initial dose selection .
( 2 . 3 ) • Monitoring : Obtain daily INR determinations upon initiation until stable in the therapeutic range .
Obtain subsequent INR determinations every 1 to 4 weeks .
( 2 . 4 ) • Review conversion instructions from other anticoagulants .
( 2 . 8 ) 2 . 1 Individualized Dosing The dosage and administration of warfarin sodium must be individualized for each patient according to the patient ' s INR response to the drug .
Adjust the dose based on the patient ' s INR and the condition being treated .
Consult the latest evidence - based clinical practice guidelines from the American College of Chest Physicians ( ACCP ) to assist in the determination of the duration and intensity of anticoagulation with warfarin sodium [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Target INR Ranges and Durations for Individual Indications An INR of greater than 4 . 0 appears to provide no additional therapeutic benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding .
Venous Thromboembolism ( including deep venous thrombosis [ DVT ] and PE ) Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain a target INR of 2 . 5 ( INR range , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) for all treatment durations .
The duration of treatment is based on the indication as follows : • For patients with a DVT or PE secondary to a transient ( reversible ) risk factor , treatment with warfarin for 3 months is recommended .
• For patients with an unprovoked DVT or PE , treatment with warfarin is recommended for at least 3 months .
After 3 months of therapy , evaluate the risk - benefit ratio of long - term treatment for the individual patient .
• For patients with two episodes of unprovoked DVT or PE , long - term treatment with warfarin is recommended .
For a patient receiving long - term anticoagulant treatment , periodically reassess the risk - benefit ratio of continuing such treatment in the individual patient .
Atrial Fibrillation In patients with non - valvular AF , anticoagulate with warfarin to target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) .
• In patients with non - valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at high risk of stroke ( i . e . , having any of the following features : prior ischemic stroke , transient ischemic attack , or systemic embolism , or 2 of the following risk factors : age greater than 75 years , moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and / or heart failure , history of hypertension , or diabetes mellitus ) , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• In patients with non - valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at an intermediate risk of ischemic stroke ( i . e . , having 1 of the following risk factors : age greater than 75 years , moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and / or heart failure , history of hypertension , or diabetes mellitus ) , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• For patients with AF and mitral stenosis , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended .
• For patients with AF and prosthetic heart valves , long - term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended ; the target INR may be increased and aspirin added depending on valve type and position , and on patient factors .
Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart Valves • For patients with a bileaflet mechanical valve or a Medtronic Hall ( Minneapolis , MN ) tilting disk valve in the aortic position who are in sinus rhythm and without left atrial enlargement , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) is recommended .
• For patients with tilting disk valves and bileaflet mechanical valves in the mitral position , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 . 0 ( range , 2 . 5 - 3 . 5 ) is recommended .
• For patients with caged ball or caged disk valves , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 . 0 ( range , 2 . 5 - 3 . 5 ) is recommended .
• For patients with a bioprosthetic valve in the mitral position , therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) for the first 3 months after valve insertion is recommended .
If additional risk factors for thromboembolism are present ( AF , previous thromboembolism , left ventricular dysfunction ) , a target INR of 2 . 5 ( range , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) is recommended .
Post - Myocardial Infarction • For high - risk patients with MI ( e . g . , those with a large anterior MI , those with significant heart failure , those with intracardiac thrombus visible on transthoracic echocardiography , those with AF , and those with a history of a thromboembolic event ) , therapy with combined moderate - intensity ( INR , 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) warfarin plus low - dose aspirin ( ≤ 100 mg / day ) for at least 3 months after the MI is recommended .
Recurrent Systemic Embolism and Other Indications Oral anticoagulation therapy with warfarin has not been fully evaluated by clinical trials in patients with valvular disease associated with AF , patients with mitral stenosis , and patients with recurrent systemic embolism of unknown etiology .
However , a moderate dose regimen ( INR 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 ) may be used for these patients .
2 . 3 Initial and Maintenance Dosing The appropriate initial dosing of warfarin sodium varies widely for different patients .
Not all factors responsible for warfarin dose variability are known , and the initial dose is influenced by : • Clinical factors including age , race , body weight , sex , concomitant medications , and comorbidities • Genetic factors ( CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] Select the initial dose based on the expected maintenance dose , taking into account the above factors .
Modify this dose based on consideration of patient - specific clinical factors .
Consider lower initial and maintenance doses for elderly and / or debilitated patients and in Asian patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Routine use of loading doses is not recommended as this practice may increase hemorrhagic and other complications and does not offer more rapid protection against clot formation .
Individualize the duration of therapy for each patient .
In general , anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Dosing Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient ' s CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known , the initial dose of warfarin sodium is usually 2 to 5 mg once daily .
Determine each patient ' s dosing needs by close monitoring of the INR response and consideration of the indication being treated .
Typical maintenance doses are 2 to 10 mg once daily .
Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
If the patient ' s CYP2C9 and / or VKORC1 genotype are known , consider these ranges in choosing the initial dose .
Patients with CYP2C9 * 1 / * 3 , * 2 / * 2 , * 2 / * 3 , and * 3 / * 3 may require more prolonged time ( > 2 to 4 weeks ) to achieve maximum INR effect for a given dosage regimen than patients without these CYP variants .
Table 1 : Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes [ 1 ] VKORC1 CYP2C9 * 1 / * 1 * 1 / * 2 * 1 / * 3 * 2 / * 2 * 2 / * 3 * 3 / * 3 GG 5 - 7 mg 5 - 7 mg 3 - 4 mg 3 - 4 mg 3 - 4 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg AG 5 - 7 mg 3 - 4 mg 3 - 4 mg 3 - 4 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg AA 3 - 4 mg 3 - 4 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg 0 . 5 - 2 mg [ 1 ] Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies .
VKORC1 – 1639 G > A ( rs9923231 ) variant is used in this table .
Other co - inherited VKORC1 variants may also be important determinants of warfarin dose .
2 . 4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation Warfarin sodium is a narrow therapeutic range ( index ) drug , and its action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K . Therefore , anticoagulation must be carefully monitored during warfarin sodium therapy .
Determine the INR daily after the administration of the initial dose until INR results stabilize in the therapeutic range .
After stabilization , maintain dosing within the therapeutic range by performing periodic INRs .
The frequency of performing INR should be based on the clinical situation but generally acceptable intervals for INR determinations are 1 to 4 weeks .
Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium , as well as whenever other medications are initiated , discontinued , or taken irregularly .
Heparin , a common concomitant drug , increases the INR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 8 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Determinations of whole blood clotting and bleeding times are not effective measures for monitoring of warfarin sodium therapy .
2 . 5 Missed Dose The anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium persists beyond 24 hours .
If a patient misses a dose of warfarin sodium at the intended time of day , the patient should take the dose as soon as possible on the same day .
The patient should not double the dose the next day to make up for a missed dose .
2 . 7 Treatment During Dentistry and Surgery Some dental or surgical procedures may necessitate the interruption or change in the dose of warfarin sodium therapy .
Consider the benefits and risks when discontinuing warfarin sodium even for a short period of time .
Determine the INR immediately prior to any dental or surgical procedure .
In patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to , during , or immediately following these procedures , adjusting the dosage of warfarin sodium to maintain the INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow for continued anticoagulation .
2 . 8 Conversion From Other Anticoagulants Heparin Since the full anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium is not achieved for several days , heparin is preferred for initial rapid anticoagulation .
During initial therapy with warfarin sodium , the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance .
Conversion to warfarin sodium may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy or may be delayed 3 to 6 days .
To ensure therapeutic anticoagulation , continue full dose heparin therapy and overlap warfarin sodium therapy with heparin for 4 to 5 days and until warfarin sodium has produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by INR , at which point heparin may be discontinued .
As heparin may affect the INR , patients receiving both heparin and warfarin sodium should have INR monitoring at least : • 5 hours after the last intravenous bolus dose of heparin , or • 4 hours after cessation of a continuous intravenous infusion of heparin , or • 24 hours after the last subcutaneous heparin injection .
Warfarin sodium may increase the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) test , even in the absence of heparin .
A severe elevation ( > 50 seconds ) in aPTT with an INR in the desired range has been identified as an indication of increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage .
Other Anticoagulants Consult the labeling of other anticoagulants for instructions on conversion to warfarin sodium .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP are single scored , engraved numerically with 1 , 2 , 2 ½ , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ½ , or 10 on one side , and engraved with " WARFARIN " on top of " TARO " on the other side .
Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP are supplied in the following strengths : Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USPStrength Color 1 mg pink 2 mg lavender 2 . 5 mg green 3 mg tan 4 mg blue 5 mg peach 6 mg teal 7 . 5 mg yellow 10 mg white ( dye - free ) • Scored tablets : 1 , 2 , 2 - 1 / 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - 1 / 2 , or 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pregnancy Warfarin sodium tablets , USP are contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves , who are at high risk of thromboembolism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity ) , fatal fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias • Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye , or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Bleeding tendencies associated with : • – Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal , genitourinary , or respiratory tract • – Central nervous system hemorrhage • – Cerebral aneurysms , dissecting aorta • – Pericarditis and pericardial effusions • – Bacterial endocarditis • Threatened abortion , eclampsia , and preeclampsia • Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non - compliance • Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding • Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia • Malignant hypertension • Pregnancy , except in women with mechanical heart valves ( 4 ) • Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias ( 4 ) • Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system ( CNS ) or eye , or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) • Bleeding tendencies associated with certain conditions ( 4 ) • Threatened abortion , eclampsia , and preeclampsia ( 4 ) • Unsupervised patients with potential high levels of non - compliance ( 4 ) • Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to warfarin or any component of the product ( 4 ) • Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia ( 4 ) • Malignant hypertension ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tissue necrosis : Necrosis or gangrene of skin or other tissues can occur , with severe cases requiring debridement or amputation .
Discontinue warfarin sodium and consider alternative anticoagulants if necessary .
( 5 . 2 ) • Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli : Some cases have progressed to necrosis or death .
Discontinue warfarin sodium if such emboli occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) : Initial therapy with warfarin sodium in HIT has resulted in cases of amputation and death .
Warfarin sodium may be considered after platelet count has normalized .
( 5 . 4 ) • Pregnant women with mechanical heart valves : Warfarin sodium may cause fetal harm ; however , the benefits may outweigh the risks .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hemorrhage Warfarin sodium can cause major or fatal bleeding .
Bleeding is more likely to occur within the first month .
Risk factors for bleeding include high intensity of anticoagulation ( INR > 4 . 0 ) , age greater than or equal to 65 , history of highly variable INRs , history of gastrointestinal bleeding , hypertension , cerebrovascular disease , anemia , malignancy , trauma , renal impairment , certain genetic factors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] , certain concomitant drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , and long duration of warfarin therapy .
Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients .
Those at high risk of bleeding may benefit from more frequent INR monitoring , careful dose adjustment to desired INR , and a shortest duration of therapy appropriate for the clinical condition .
However , maintenance of INR in the therapeutic range does not eliminate the risk of bleeding .
Drugs , dietary changes , and other factors affect INR levels achieved with warfarin sodium therapy .
Perform more frequent INR monitoring when starting or stopping other drugs , including botanicals , or when changing dosages of other drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Tissue Necrosis Necrosis and / or gangrene of skin and other tissues is an uncommon but serious risk ( < 0 . 1 % ) .
Necrosis may be associated with local thrombosis and usually appears within a few days of the start of warfarin sodium therapy .
In severe cases of necrosis , treatment through debridement or amputation of the affected tissue , limb , breast , or penis has been reported .
Careful clinical evaluation is required to determine whether necrosis is caused by an underlying disease .
Although various treatments have been attempted , no treatment for necrosis has been considered uniformly effective .
Discontinue warfarin sodium therapy if necrosis occurs .
Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary .
5 . 3 Systemic Atheroemboli and Cholesterol Microemboli Anticoagulation therapy with warfarin sodium may enhance the release of atheromatous plaque emboli .
Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli can present with a variety of signs and symptoms depending on the site of embolization .
The most commonly involved visceral organs are the kidneys followed by the pancreas , spleen , and liver .
Some cases have progressed to necrosis or death .
A distinct syndrome resulting from microemboli to the feet is known as " purple toes syndrome . "
Discontinue warfarin sodium therapy if such phenomena are observed .
Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary .
5 . 4 Heparin - Induced Thrombocytopenia Do not use warfarin sodium as initial therapy in patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) and with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome ( HITTS ) .
Cases of limb ischemia , necrosis , and gangrene have occurred in patients with HIT and HITTS when heparin treatment was discontinued and warfarin therapy was started or continued .
In some patients , sequelae have included amputation of the involved area and / or death .
Treatment with warfarin sodium may be considered after the platelet count has normalized .
5 . 5 Use in Pregnant Women with Mechanical Heart Valves Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
While warfarin sodium is contraindicated during pregnancy , the potential benefits of using warfarin sodium may outweigh the risks for pregnant women with mechanical heart valves at high risk of thromboembolism .
In those individual situations , the decision to initiate or continue warfarin sodium should be reviewed with the patient , taking into consideration the specific risks and benefits pertaining to the individual patient ' s medical situation , as well as the most current medical guidelines .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity ) , fatal fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Females of Reproductive Potential Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy can cause pregnancy loss , birth defects , or fetal death .
Discuss pregnancy planning with females of reproductive potential who are on warfarin sodium therapy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 7 Other Clinical Settings with Increased Risks In the following clinical settings , the risks of warfarin sodium therapy may be increased : • Moderate to severe hepatic impairment • Infectious diseases or disturbances of intestinal flora ( e . g . , sprue , antibiotic therapy ) • Use of an indwelling catheter • Severe to moderate hypertension • Deficiency in protein C - mediated anticoagulant response : warfarin sodium reduces the synthesis of the naturally occurring anticoagulants , protein C and protein S . Hereditary or acquired deficiencies of protein C or its cofactor , protein S , have been associated with tissue necrosis following warfarin administration .
Concomitant anticoagulation therapy with heparin for 5 to 7 days during initiation of therapy with warfarin sodium may minimize the incidence of tissue necrosis in these patients .
• Eye surgery : In cataract surgery , warfarin sodium use was associated with a significant increase in minor complications of sharp needle and local anesthesia block but not associated with potentially sight - threatening operative hemorrhagic complications .
As warfarin sodium cessation or reduction may lead to serious thromboembolic complications , the decision to discontinue warfarin sodium before a relatively less invasive and complex eye surgery , such as lens surgery , should be based upon the risks of anticoagulant therapy weighed against the benefits .
• Polycythemia vera • Vasculitis • Diabetes mellitus 5 . 8 Endogenous Factors Affecting INR The following factors may be responsible for increased INR response : diarrhea , hepatic disorders , poor nutritional state , steatorrhea , or vitamin K deficiency .
The following factors may be responsible for decreased INR response : increased vitamin K intake or hereditary warfarin resistance .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to warfarin sodium are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hemorrhage [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] • Necrosis of skin and other tissues [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Other adverse reactions to warfarin sodium include : • Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity / allergic reactions ( including urticaria and anaphylactic reactions ) • Vascular disorders : vasculitis • Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatitis , elevated liver enzymes .
Cholestatic hepatitis has been associated with concomitant administration of warfarin sodium and ticlopidine .
• Gastrointestinal disorders : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , taste perversion , abdominal pain , flatulence , bloating • Skin disorders : rash , dermatitis ( including bullous eruptions ) , pruritus , alopecia • Respiratory disorders : tracheal or tracheobronchial calcification • General disorders : chills Most common adverse reactions to warfarin sodium are fatal and nonfatal hemorrhage from any tissue or organ .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs may interact with warfarin sodium through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms .
Pharmacodynamic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are synergism ( impaired hemostasis , reduced clotting factor synthesis ) , competitive antagonism ( vitamin K ) , and alteration of the physiologic control loop for vitamin K metabolism ( hereditary resistance ) .
Pharmacokinetic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are mainly enzyme induction , enzyme inhibition , and reduced plasma protein binding .
It is important to note that some drugs may interact by more than one mechanism .
More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs , including botanicals , or when changing dosages of other drugs , including drugs intended for short - term use ( e . g . , antibiotics , antifungals , corticosteroids ) [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with warfarin sodium or adverse reactions pertaining to bleeding .
• Consult labeling of all concurrently used drugs for complete information about interactions with warfarin sodium or increased risks for bleeding .
( 7 ) • Inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , or 3A4 : May alter warfarin exposure .
Monitor INR closely when any such drug is used with warfarin sodium .
( 7 . 1 ) • Drugs that increase bleeding risk : Closely monitor patients receiving any such drug ( e . g . , other anticoagulants , antiplatelet agents , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , serotonin reuptake inhibitors ) .
( 7 . 2 ) • Antibiotics and antifungals : Closely monitor INR when initiating or stopping an antibiotic or antifungal course of therapy .
( 7 . 3 ) • Botanical ( herbal ) products : Some may influence patient response to warfarin sodium necessitating close INR monitoring .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 CYP450 Interactions CYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9 , 2C19 , 2C8 , 2C18 , 1A2 , and 3A4 .
The more potent warfarin S - enantiomer is metabolized by CYP2C9 while the R - enantiomer is metabolized by CYP1A2 and 3A4 .
• Inhibitors of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 have the potential to increase the effect ( increase INR ) of warfarin by increasing the exposure of warfarin .
• Inducers of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 have the potential to decrease the effect ( decrease INR ) of warfarin by decreasing the exposure of warfarin .
Examples of inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and 3A4 are below in Table 2 ; however , this list should not be considered all - inclusive .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about CYP450 interaction potential .
The CYP450 inhibition and induction potential should be considered when starting , stopping , or changing dose of concomitant mediations .
Closely monitor INR if a concomitant drug is a CYP2C9 , 1A2 , and / or 3A4 inhibitor or inducer .
Table 2 : Examples of CYP450 Interactions with WarfarinEnzyme Inhibitors Inducers CYP2C9 amiodarone , capecitabine , cotrimoxazole , etravirine , fluconazole , fluvastatin , fluvoxamine , metronidazole , miconazole , oxandrolone , sulfinpyrazone , tigecycline , voriconazole , zafirlukast aprepitant , bosentan , carbamazepine , phenobarbital , rifampin CYP1A2 acyclovir , allopurinol , caffeine , cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , disulfiram , enoxacin , famotidine , fluvoxamine , methoxsalen , mexiletine , norfloxacin , oral contraceptives , phenylpropanolamine , propafenone , propranolol , terbinafine , thiabendazole , ticlopidine , verapamil , zileuton montelukast , moricizine , omeprazole , phenobarbital , phenytoin , cigarette smoking CYP3A4 alprazolam , amiodarone , amlodipine , amprenavir , aprepitant , atorvastatin , atazanavir , bicalutamide , cilostazol , cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , clarithromycin , conivaptan , cyclosporine , darunavir / ritonavir , diltiazem , erythromycin , fluconazole , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , fosamprenavir , imatinib , indinavir , isoniazid , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , nefazodone , nelfinavir , nilotinib , oral contraceptives , posaconazole , ranitidine , ranolazine , ritonavir , saquinavir , telithromycin , tipranavir , voriconazole , zileuton armodafinil , amprenavir , aprepitant , bosentan , carbamazepine , efavirenz , etravirine , modafinil , nafcillin , phenytoin , pioglitazone , prednisone , rifampin , rufinamide 7 . 2 Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk Examples of drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding are presented in Table 3 .
Because bleeding risk is increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with warfarin , closely monitor patients receiving any such drug with warfarin .
Table 3 : Drugs that Can Increase the Risk of BleedingDrug Class Specific Drugs Anticoagulants argatroban , dabigatran , bivalirudin , desirudin , heparin , lepirudin Antiplatelet Agents aspirin , cilostazol , clopidogrel , dipyridamole , prasugrel , ticlopidine Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents celecoxib , diclofenac , diflunisal , fenoprofen , ibuprofen , indomethacin , ketoprofen , ketorolac , mefenamic acid , naproxen , oxaprozin , piroxicam , sulindac Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors citalopram , desvenlafaxine , duloxetine , escitalopram , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , milnacipran , paroxetine , sertraline , venlafaxine , vilazodone 7 . 3 Antibiotics and Antifungals There have been reports of changes in INR in patients taking warfarin and antibiotics or antifungals , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of these agents on plasma concentrations of warfarin .
Closely monitor INR when starting or stopping any antibiotic or antifungal in patients taking warfarin .
7 . 4 Botanical ( Herbal ) Products and Foods Exercise caution when botanical ( herbal ) products are taken concomitantly with warfarin sodium .
Few adequate , well - controlled studies evaluating the potential for metabolic and / or pharmacologic interactions between botanicals and warfarin sodium exist .
Due to a lack of manufacturing standardization with botanical medicinal preparations , the amount of active ingredients may vary .
This could further confound the ability to assess potential interactions and effects on anticoagulation .
Some botanicals may cause bleeding events when taken alone ( e . g . , garlic and Ginkgo biloba ) and may have anticoagulant , antiplatelet , and / or fibrinolytic properties .
These effects would be expected to be additive to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin sodium .
Conversely , some botanicals may decrease the effects of warfarin sodium ( e . g . , co - enzyme Q10 , St . John ' s wort ginseng ) .
Some botanicals and foods can interact with warfarin sodium through CYP450 interactions ( e . g . , echinacea , grapefruit juice , ginkgo , goldenseal , St . John ' s wort ) .
Monitor the patient ' s response with additional INR determinations when initiating or discontinuing any botanicals .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Use with caution in a nursing woman .
Monitor breast - feeding infants for bruising or bleeding .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D for women with mechanical heart valves [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] and Pregnancy Category X for other pregnant populations [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP are contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves , who are at high risk of thromboembolism , and for whom the benefits of warfarin sodium may outweigh the risks .
Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations ( warfarin embryopathy ) , fetal hemorrhage , and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality .
The reproductive and developmental effects of warfarin sodium have not been evaluated in animals .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In humans , warfarin crosses the placenta , and concentrations in fetal plasma approach the maternal values .
Exposure to warfarin during the first trimester of pregnancy caused a pattern of congenital malformations in about 5 % of exposed offspring .
Warfarin embryopathy is characterized by nasal hypoplasia with or without stippled epiphyses ( chondrodysplasia punctata ) and growth retardation ( including low birth weight ) .
Central nervous system and eye abnormalities have also been reported , including dorsal midline dysplasia characterized by agenesis of the corpus callosum , Dandy - Walker malformation , midline cerebellar atrophy , and ventral midline dysplasia characterized by optic atrophy .
Mental retardation , blindness , schizencephaly , microcephaly , hydrocephalus , and other adverse pregnancy outcomes have been reported following warfarin exposure during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Based on published data in 15 nursing mothers , warfarin was not detected in human milk .
Among the 15 full - term newborns , 6 nursing infants had documented prothrombin times within the expected range .
Prothrombin times were not obtained for the other 9 nursing infants .
Monitor breast - feeding infants for bruising or bleeding .
Effects in premature infants have not been evaluated .
Caution should be exercised when warfarin sodium is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Adequate and well - controlled studies with warfarin sodium have not been conducted in any pediatric population , and the optimum dosing , safety , and efficacy in pediatric patients is unknown .
Pediatric use of warfarin sodium is based on adult data and recommendations , and available limited pediatric data from observational studies and patient registries .
Pediatric patients administered warfarin sodium should avoid any activity or sport that may result in traumatic injury .
The developing hemostatic system in infants and children results in a changing physiology of thrombosis and response to anticoagulants .
Dosing of warfarin in the pediatric population varies by patient age , with infants generally having the highest , and adolescents having the lowest milligram per kilogram dose requirements to maintain target INRs .
Because of changing warfarin requirements due to age , concomitant medications , diet , and existing medical condition , target INR ranges may be difficult to achieve and maintain in pediatric patients , and more frequent INR determinations are recommended .
Bleeding rates varied by patient population and clinical care center in pediatric observational studies and patient registries .
Infants and children receiving vitamin K - supplemented nutrition , including infant formulas , may be resistant to warfarin therapy , while human milk - fed infants may be sensitive to warfarin therapy .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients receiving warfarin sodium in controlled clinical trials for which data were available for analysis , 1885 patients ( 24 . 4 % ) were 65 years and older , while 185 patients ( 2 . 4 % ) were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Patients 60 years or older appear to exhibit greater than expected INR response to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in any unsupervised patient with senility .
Observe caution with administration of warfarin sodium to elderly patients in any situation or with any physical condition where added risk of hemorrhage is present .
Consider lower initiation and maintenance doses of warfarin sodium in elderly patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Renal clearance is considered to be a minor determinant of anticoagulant response to warfarin .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Hepatic impairment can potentiate the response to warfarin through impaired synthesis of clotting factors and decreased metabolism of warfarin .
Use caution when using warfarin sodium in these patients .
8 . 8 Females of Reproductive Potential Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy can cause spontaneous abortion , birth defects , or fetal death .
Females of reproductive potential who are candidates for warfarin sodium therapy should be counseled regarding the benefits of therapy and potential reproductive risks .
Discuss pregnancy planning with females of reproductive potential who are on warfarin sodium therapy .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking warfarin sodium , she should be apprised of the potential risks to the fetus .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms Bleeding ( e . g . , appearance of blood in stools or urine , hematuria , excessive menstrual bleeding , melena , petechiae , excessive bruising or persistent oozing from superficial injuries , unexplained fall in hemoglobin ) is a manifestation of excessive anticoagulation .
10 . 2 Treatment The treatment of excessive anticoagulation is based on the level of the INR , the presence or absence of bleeding , and clinical circumstances .
Reversal of warfarin sodium anticoagulation may be obtained by discontinuing warfarin sodium therapy and , if necessary , by administration of oral or parenteral vitamin K1 .
The use of vitamin K1 reduces response to subsequent warfarin sodium therapy and patients may return to a pretreatment thrombotic status following the rapid reversal of a prolonged INR .
Resumption of warfarin sodium administration reverses the effect of vitamin K , and a therapeutic INR can again be obtained by careful dosage adjustment .
If rapid re - anticoagulation is indicated , heparin may be preferable for initial therapy .
Prothrombin complex concentrate ( PCC ) , fresh frozen plasma , or activated Factor VII treatment may be considered if the requirement to reverse the effects of warfarin sodium is urgent .
A risk of hepatitis and other viral diseases is associated with the use of blood products ; PCC and activated Factor VII are also associated with an increased risk of thrombosis .
Therefore , these preparations should be used only in exceptional or life - threatening bleeding episodes secondary to warfarin sodium overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Warfarin sodium is an anticoagulant that acts by inhibiting vitamin K - dependent coagulation factors .
Chemically , it is 3 - ( α - acetonylbenzyl ) - 4 - hydroxycoumarin and is a racemic mixture of the R - and S - enantiomers .
Crystalline warfarin sodium is an isopropanol clathrate .
Its empirical formula is C19H15NaO4 , and its structural formula is represented by the following : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Crystalline warfarin sodium occurs as a white , odorless , crystalline powder that is discolored by light .
It is very soluble in water , freely soluble in alcohol , and very slightly soluble in chloroform and ether .
Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP for oral use also contain : All strengths : Anhydrous lactose , corn starch , and magnesium stearate 1 mg : D & C Red No . 6 Barium Lake .
2 mg : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake .
2 . 5 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake .
3 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake .
4 mg : FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake .
5 mg : D & C Red No . 6 Barium Lake , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
6 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake .
7 . 5 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
10 mg : Dye Free [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Warfarin acts by inhibiting the synthesis of vitamin K - dependent clotting factors , which include Factors II , VII , IX , and X , and the anticoagulant proteins C and S . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for the post ribosomal synthesis of the vitamin K - dependent clotting factors .
Vitamin K promotes the biosynthesis of γ - carboxyglutamic acid residues in the proteins that are essential for biological activity .
Warfarin is thought to interfere with clotting factor synthesis by inhibition of the C1 subunit of vitamin K epoxide reductase ( VKORC1 ) enzyme complex , thereby reducing the regeneration of vitamin K1 epoxide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics An anticoagulation effect generally occurs within 24 hours after warfarin administration .
However , peak anticoagulant effect may be delayed 72 to 96 hours .
The duration of action of a single dose of racemic warfarin is 2 to 5 days .
The effects of warfarin sodium may become more pronounced as effects of daily maintenance doses overlap .
This is consistent with the half - lives of the affected vitamin K - dependent clotting factors and anticoagulation proteins : Factor II - 60 hours , VII - 4 to 6 hours , IX - 24 hours , X - 48 to 72 hours , and proteins C and S are approximately 8 hours and 30 hours , respectively .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Warfarin sodium is a racemic mixture of the R - and S - enantiomers of warfarin .
The S - enantiomer exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R - enantiomer in humans , but generally has a more rapid clearance .
Absorption Warfarin is essentially completely absorbed after oral administration , with peak concentration generally attained within the first 4 hours .
Distribution Warfarin distributes into a relatively small apparent volume of distribution of about 0 . 14 L / kg .
A distribution phase lasting 6 to 12 hours is distinguishable after rapid intravenous or oral administration of an aqueous solution .
Approximately 99 % of the drug is bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism The elimination of warfarin is almost entirely by metabolism .
Warfarin is stereoselectively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 ( CYP450 ) microsomal enzymes to inactive hydroxylated metabolites ( predominant route ) and by reductases to reduced metabolites ( warfarin alcohols ) with minimal anticoagulant activity .
Identified metabolites of warfarin include dehydrowarfarin , two diastereoisomer alcohols , and 4 ' - , 6 - , 7 - , 8 - , and 10 - hydroxywarfarin .
The CYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9 , 2C19 , 2C8 , 2C18 , 1A2 , and 3A4 .
CYP2C9 , a polymorphic enzyme , is likely to be the principal form of human liver CYP450 that modulates the in vivo anticoagulant activity of warfarin .
Patients with one or more variant CYP2C9 alleles have decreased S - warfarin clearance [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Excretion The terminal half - life of warfarin after a single dose is approximately 1 week ; however , the effective half - life ranges from 20 to 60 hours , with a mean of about 40 hours .
The clearance of R - warfarin is generally half that of S - warfarin , thus as the volumes of distribution are similar , the half - life of R - warfarin is longer than that of S - warfarin .
The half - life of R - warfarin ranges from 37 to 89 hours , while that of S - warfarin ranges from 21 to 43 hours .
Studies with radiolabeled drug have demonstrated that up to 92 % of the orally administered dose is recovered in urine .
Very little warfarin is excreted unchanged in urine .
Urinary excretion is in the form of metabolites .
Geriatric Patients Patients 60 years or older appear to exhibit greater than expected INR response to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin .
The cause of the increased sensitivity to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin in this age group is unknown but may be due to a combination of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic factors .
Limited information suggests there is no difference in the clearance of S - warfarin ; however , there may be a slight decrease in the clearance of R - warfarin in the elderly as compared to the young .
Therefore , as patient age increases , a lower dose of warfarin is usually required to produce a therapeutic level of anticoagulation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
Asian Patients Asian patients may require lower initiation and maintenance doses of warfarin .
A non - controlled study of 151 Chinese outpatients stabilized on warfarin for various indications reported a mean daily warfarin requirement of 3 . 3 ± 1 . 4 mg to achieve an INR of 2 to 2 . 5 .
Patient age was the most important determinant of warfarin requirement in these patients , with a progressively lower warfarin requirement with increasing age .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Polymorphisms The S - enantiomer of warfarin is mainly metabolized to 7 - hydroxywarfarin by CYP2C9 , a polymorphic enzyme .
The variant alleles , CYP2C9 * 2 and CYP2C9 * 3 , result in decreased in vitro CYP2C9 enzymatic 7 - hydroxylation of S - warfarin .
The frequencies of these alleles in Caucasians are approximately 11 % and 7 % for CYP2C9 * 2 and CYP2C9 * 3 , respectively .
Other CYP2C9 alleles associated with reduced enzymatic activity occur at lower frequencies , including * 5 , * 6 , and * 11 alleles in populations of African ancestry and * 5 , * 9 , and * 11 alleles in Caucasians .
Warfarin reduces the regeneration of vitamin K from vitamin K epoxide in the vitamin K cycle through inhibition of VKOR , a multiprotein enzyme complex .
Certain single nucleotide polymorphisms in the VKORC1 gene ( e . g . , – 1639 G > A ) have been associated with variable warfarin dose requirements .
VKORC1 and CYP2C9 gene variants generally explain the largest proportion of known variability in warfarin dose requirements .
CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotype information , when available , can assist in selection of the initial dose of warfarin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have not been performed with warfarin .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Atrial Fibrillation In five prospective , randomized , controlled clinical trials involving 3711 patients with nonrheumatic AF , warfarin significantly reduced the risk of systemic thromboembolism including stroke ( see Table 4 ) .
The risk reduction ranged from 60 % to 86 % in all except one trial ( CAFA : 45 % ) , which was stopped early due to published positive results from two of these trials .
The incidence of major bleeding in these trials ranged from 0 . 6 % to 2 . 7 % ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Clinical Studies of Warfarin in Non - Rheumatic AF Patients [ 1 ] N Thromboembolism % Major Bleeding Study Warfarin - Treated Patients Control Patients PT Ratio INR % Risk Reduction p - value Warfarin - Treated Patients Control Patients AFASAK 335 336 1 . 5 - 2 . 0 2 . 8 - 4 . 2 60 0 . 027 0 . 6 0 . 0 SPAF 210 211 1 . 3 - 1 . 8 2 . 0 - 4 . 5 67 0 . 01 1 . 9 1 . 9 BAATAF 212 208 1 . 2 - 1 . 5 1 . 5 - 2 . 7 86 < 0 . 05 0 . 9 0 . 5 CAFA 187 191 1 . 3 - 1 . 6 2 . 0 - 3 . 0 45 0 . 25 2 . 7 0 . 5 SPINAF 260 265 1 . 2 - 1 . 5 1 . 4 - 2 . 8 79 0 . 001 2 . 3 1 . 5 [ 1 ] All study results of warfarin vs . control are based on intention - to - treat analysis and include ischemic stroke and systemic thromboembolism , excluding hemorrhagic stroke and transient ischemic attacks .
Trials in patients with both AF and mitral stenosis suggest a benefit from anticoagulation with warfarin sodium [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
14 . 2 Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart Valves In a prospective , randomized , open - label , positive - controlled study in 254 patients with mechanical prosthetic heart valves , the thromboembolic - free interval was found to be significantly greater in patients treated with warfarin alone compared with dipyridamole / aspirin - treated patients ( p < 0 . 005 ) and pentoxifylline / aspirin - treated patients ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The results of this study are presented in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Prospective , Randomized , Open - Label , Positive - Controlled Clinical Study of Warfarin in Patients with Mechanical Prosthetic Heart Valves Patients Treated With Event Warfarin Dipyridamole / Aspirin Pentoxifylline / Aspirin py = patient years Thromboembolism 2 . 2 / 100 py 8 . 6 / 100 py 7 . 9 / 100 py Major Bleeding 2 . 5 / 100 py 0 . 0 / 100 py 0 . 9 / 100 py In a prospective , open - label , clinical study comparing moderate ( INR 2 . 65 ) vs . high intensity ( INR 9 . 0 ) warfarin therapies in 258 patients with mechanical prosthetic heart valves , thromboembolism occurred with similar frequency in the two groups ( 4 . 0 and 3 . 7 events per 100 patient years , respectively ) .
Major bleeding was more common in the high intensity group .
The results of this study are presented in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Prospective , Open - Label Clinical Study of Warfarin in Patients with Mechanical Prosthetic Heart ValvesEvent Moderate Warfarin Therapy INR 2 . 65 High Intensity Warfarin Therapy INR 9 . 0 py = patient years Thromboembolism 4 . 0 / 100 py 3 . 7 / 100 py Major Bleeding 0 . 95 / 100 py 2 . 1 / 100 py In a randomized trial in 210 patients comparing two intensities of warfarin therapy ( INR 2 . 0 - 2 . 25 vs . INR 2 . 5 - 4 . 0 ) for a three - month period following tissue heart valve replacement , thromboembolism occurred with similar frequency in the two groups ( major embolic events 2 . 0 % vs . 1 . 9 % , respectively , and minor embolic events 10 . 8 % vs . 10 . 2 % , respectively ) .
Major hemorrhages occurred in 4 . 6 % of patients in the higher intensity INR group compared to zero in the lower intensity INR group .
14 . 3 Myocardial Infarction WARIS ( The Warfarin Re - Infarction Study ) was a double - blind , randomized study of 1214 patients 2 to 4 weeks post - infarction treated with warfarin to a target INR of 2 . 8 to 4 . 8 .
The primary endpoint was a composite of total mortality and recurrent infarction .
A secondary endpoint of cerebrovascular events was assessed .
Mean follow - up of the patients was 37 months .
The results for each endpoint separately , including an analysis of vascular death , are provided in Table 7 : Table 7 : WARIS – Endpoint Analysis of Separate EventsEvent Warfarin ( N = 607 ) Placebo ( N = 607 ) RR ( 95 % CI ) % Risk Reduction ( p - value ) RR = Relative risk ; Risk reduction = ( 1 - RR ) ; CI = Confidence interval ; MI = Myocardial infarction ; py = patient years Total Patient Years of Follow - up 2018 1944 Total Mortality 94 ( 4 . 7 / 100 py ) 123 ( 6 . 3 / 100 py ) 0 . 76 ( 0 . 60 , 0 . 97 ) 24 ( p = 0 . 030 ) Vascular Death 82 ( 4 . 1 / 100 py ) 105 ( 5 . 4 / 100 py ) 0 . 78 ( 0 . 60 , 1 . 02 ) 22 ( p = 0 . 068 ) Recurrent MI 82 ( 4 . 1 / 100 py ) 124 ( 6 . 4 / 100 py ) 0 . 66 ( 0 . 51 , 0 . 85 ) 34 ( p = 0 . 001 ) Cerebrovascular Event 20 ( 1 . 0 / 100 py ) 44 ( 2 . 3 / 100 py ) 0 . 46 ( 0 . 28 , 0 . 75 ) 54 ( p = 0 . 002 ) WARIS II ( The Warfarin , Aspirin , Re - Infarction Study ) was an open - label , randomized study of 3630 patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction treated with warfarin to a target INR 2 . 8 to 4 . 2 , aspirin 160 mg per day , or warfarin to a target INR 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 plus aspirin 75 mg per day prior to hospital discharge .
The primary endpoint was a composite of death , nonfatal reinfarction , or thromboembolic stroke .
The mean duration of observation was approximately 4 years .
The results for WARIS II are provided in the Table 8 .
Table 8 : WARIS II – Distribution of Events According to Treatment GroupEvent Aspirin ( N = 1206 ) Warfarin ( N = 1216 ) Aspirin plus Warfarin ( N = 1208 ) Rate Ratio ( 95 % CI ) p - value CI = confidence interval ND = not determined No .
of Events Major Bleeding [ 1 ] 8 33 28 3 . 35 [ 2 ] ( ND ) 4 . 00 [ 3 ] ( ND ) ND ND Minor Bleeding [ 4 ] 39 103 133 3 . 21 null ( ND ) 2 . 55 null ( ND ) ND ND Composite Endpoints [ 5 ] 241 203 181 0 . 81 ( 0 . 69 - 0 . 95 ) null 0 . 71 ( 0 . 60 - 0 . 83 ) null 0 . 03 0 . 001 Reinfarction 117 90 69 0 . 56 ( 0 . 41 - 0 . 78 ) null 0 . 74 ( 0 . 55 - 0 . 98 ) null < 0 . 001 0 . 03 Thromboembolic Stroke 32 17 17 0 . 52 ( 0 . 28 - 0 . 98 ) null 0 . 52 ( 0 . 28 - 0 . 97 ) null 0 . 03 0 . 03 Death 92 96 95 0 . 82 [ 1 ] Major bleeding episodes were defined as nonfatal cerebral hemorrhage or bleeding necessitating surgical intervention or blood transfusion .
[ 2 ] The rate ratio is for aspirin plus warfarin as compared with aspirin .
[ 3 ] The rate ratio is for warfarin as compared with aspirin .
[ 4 ] Minor bleeding episodes were defined as non - cerebral hemorrhage not necessitating surgical intervention or blood transfusion .
[ 5 ] Includes death , nonfatal reinfarction , and thromboembolic cerebral stroke .
There were approximately four times as many major bleeding episodes in the two groups receiving warfarin than in the group receiving aspirin alone .
Major bleeding episodes were not more frequent among patients receiving aspirin plus warfarin than among those receiving warfarin alone , but the incidence of minor bleeding episodes was higher in the combined therapy group .
15 REFERENCES • Ansell J , Hirsh J , Hylek E , Jacobson A , Crowther M , Palareti G . Pharmacology and management of the vitamin K antagonists .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 160 S - 198 S .
• Kearon C , Kahn SR , Agnelli G , Goldhaber S , Raskob GE , Comerota AJ .
Antithrombotic therapy for venous thromboembolic disease .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 454 S - 545 S .
• Singer DE , Albers GW , Dalen JE , et al .
Antithrombotic therapy in atrial fibrillation .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 546 S - 592 S .
• Becker RC , Meade TW , Berger PB , et al .
The primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 776 S - 814 S .
• Salem DN , O ' Gara PT , Madias C , Pauker SG .
Valvular and structural heart disease .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 593 S - 629 S .
• Monagle P , Chalmers E , Chan A , et al .
Antithrombotic therapy in neonates and children .
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence - Based Clinical Practice Guidelines .
8 th Ed .
Chest .
2008 ; 133 : 887 S - 968 S .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tablets Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP are single scored , flat beveled capsule shaped tablets , engraved numerically with 1 , 2 , 2 ½ , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ½ , or 10 on one side and engraved with " WARFARIN " on top of " TARO " on the other side .
They are packaged with potencies and colors as follows : Bottles of 100 Bottles of 1000 Bottles of 5000 Cartons of 100 10 × 10 blister packs 1 mg Pink NDC 51672 - 4027 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4027 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4027 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4027 - 0 2 mg Lavender NDC - 51672 - 4028 - 1 NDC - 51672 - 4028 - 3 NDC - 51672 - 4028 - 7 NDC - 51672 - 4028 - 0 2 . 5 mg Green NDC 51672 - 4029 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4029 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4029 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4029 - 0 3 mg Tan NDC 51672 - 4030 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4030 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4030 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4030 - 0 4 mg Blue NDC 51672 - 4031 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4031 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4031 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4031 - 0 5 mg Peach NDC 51672 - 4032 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4032 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4032 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4032 - 0 6 mg Teal NDC 51672 - 4033 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4033 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4033 - 7 NDC 51672 - 4033 - 0 7 . 5 mg Yellow NDC 51672 - 4034 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4034 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4034 - 0 10 mg White ( dye free ) NDC 51672 - 4035 - 1 NDC 51672 - 4035 - 3 NDC 51672 - 4035 - 0 Protect from light and moisture .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store the unit - dose blister packages in the carton until contents have been used .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Advise patients to : • Tell their physician if they fall often as this may increase their risk for complications .
• Strictly adhere to the prescribed dosage schedule .
Do not take or discontinue any other drug , including salicylates ( e . g . , aspirin and topical analgesics ) , other over - the - counter drugs , and botanical ( herbal ) products except on advice of your physician .
• Notify their physician immediately if any unusual bleeding or symptoms occur .
Signs and symptoms of bleeding include : pain , swelling or discomfort , prolonged bleeding from cuts , increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding , nosebleeds , bleeding of gums from brushing , unusual bleeding or bruising , red or dark brown urine , red or tar black stools , headache , dizziness , or weakness .
• Contact their doctor • – immediately if they think they are pregnant • – to discuss pregnancy planning • – if they are considering breast - feeding • Avoid any activity or sport that may result in traumatic injury .
• Obtain prothrombin time tests and make regular visits to their physician or clinic to monitor therapy .
• Carry identification stating that they are taking warfarin sodium .
• If the prescribed dose of warfarin sodium is missed , take the dose as soon as possible on the same day but do not take a double dose of warfarin sodium the next day to make up for missed doses .
• Eat a normal , balanced diet to maintain a consistent intake of vitamin K . Avoid drastic changes in dietary habits , such as eating large amounts of leafy , green vegetables .
• Contact their physician to report any serious illness , such as severe diarrhea , infection , or fever .
• Be aware that if therapy with warfarin sodium is discontinued , the anticoagulant effects of warfarin sodium may persist for about 2 to 5 days .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 26110 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : November 2011 90145 - 1111 - 13 MEDICATION GUIDE Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP Read this Medication Guide before you start taking warfarin sodium and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about warfarin sodium when you start taking it and at regular checkups .
What is the most important information I should know about warfarin sodium ?
Warfarin sodium can cause bleeding which can be serious and sometimes lead to death .
This is because warfarin sodium is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
• You may have a higher risk of bleeding if you take warfarin sodium and : • are 65 years of age or older • have a history of stomach or intestinal bleeding • have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • have a history of stroke , or " mini - stroke " ( transient ischemic attack or TIA ) • have serious heart disease • have a low blood count or cancer • have had trauma , such as an accident or surgery • have kidney problems • take other medicines that increase your risk of bleeding , including : • a medicine that contains heparin • other medicines to prevent or treat blood clots • nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • take warfarin sodium for a long time .
Warfarin sodium is the active ingredient in Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP .
Tell your healthcare provider if you take any of these medicines .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above .
Many other medicines can interact with warfarin sodium and affect the dose you need or increase warfarin sodium side effects .
Do not change or stop any of your medicines or start any new medicines before you talk to your healthcare provider .
Do not take other medicines that contain warfarin sodium while taking Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP .
• Get your regular blood test to check for your response to warfarin sodium .
This blood test is called an INR test .
The INR test checks to see how fast your blood clots .
Your healthcare provider will decide what INR numbers are best for you .
Your dose of warfarin sodium will be adjusted to keep your INR in a target range for you .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms of bleeding problems : • pain , swelling , or discomfort • headaches , dizziness , or weakness • unusual bruising ( bruises that develop without known cause or grow in size ) • nosebleeds • bleeding gums • bleeding from cuts takes a long time to stop • menstrual bleeding or vaginal bleeding that is heavier than normal • pink or brown urine • red or black stools • coughing up blood • vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds • Some foods and beverages can interact with warfarin sodium and affect your treatment and dose .
• Eat a normal , balanced diet .
Talk to your healthcare provider before you make any diet changes .
Do not eat large amounts of leafy , green vegetables .
Leafy , green vegetables contain vitamin K . Certain vegetable oils also contain large amounts of vitamin K . Too much vitamin K can lower the effect of warfarin sodium .
• Always tell all of your healthcare providers that you take warfarin sodium .
• Wear or carry information that you take warfarin sodium .
See " What are the possible side effects of warfarin sodium ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is warfarin sodium ?
Warfarin sodium is prescription medicine used to treat blood clots and to lower the chance of blood clots forming in your body .
Blood clots can cause a stroke , heart attack , or other serious conditions if they form in the legs or lungs .
It is not known if warfarin sodium is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take warfarin sodium ?
Do not take warfarin sodium if : • your chance of having bleeding problems is higher than the possible benefit of treatment .
Your healthcare provider will decide if warfarin sodium is right for you .
Talk to your healthcare provider about all of your health conditions .
• you are pregnant unless you have a mechanical heart valve .
Warfarin sodium may cause birth defects , miscarriage , or death of your unborn baby .
• you are allergic to warfarin or any of the other ingredients in Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking warfarin sodium ?
Before you take warfarin sodium , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have bleeding problems • fall often • have liver or kidney problems • have high blood pressure • have a heart problem called congestive heart failure • have diabetes • plan to have any surgery or a dental procedure • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See " Who should not take warfarin sodium ? "
• are breast - feeding .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take warfarin sodium and breast - feed .
Tell all of your healthcare providers and dentists that you are taking warfarin sodium .
They should talk to the healthcare provider who prescribed warfarin sodium for you before you have any surgery or dental procedure .
Your warfarin sodium may need to be stopped for a short time or your may need your dose adjusted .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines may affect the way warfarin sodium works .
Certain medicines may increase your risk of bleeding .
See " What is the most important information I should know about warfarin sodium ? "
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take warfarin sodium ?
• Take warfarin sodium exactly as prescribed .
Your healthcare provider will adjust your dose from time to time depending on your response to warfarin sodium .
• You must have regular blood tests and visits with your healthcare provider to monitor your condition .
• If you miss a dose of warfarin sodium , call your healthcare provider . Take the dose as soon as possible on the same day .
Do not take a double dose of warfarin sodium the next day to make up for a missed dose .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you : • take too much warfarin sodium • are sick with diarrhea , an infection , or have a fever • fall or injure yourself , especially if you hit your head .
Your healthcare provider may need to check you What should I avoid while taking warfarin sodium ?
• Do not do any activity or sport that may cause a serious injury .
What are the possible side effects of warfarin sodium ?
Warfarin sodium may cause serious side effects including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about warfarin sodium ? "
• Death of skin tissue ( skin necrosis or gangrene ) .
This can happen soon after starting warfarin sodium .
It happens because blood clots form and block blood flow to an area of your body .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain , color , or temperature change to any area of your body .
You may need medical care right away to prevent death or loss ( amputation ) of your affected body part .
• " Purple toes syndrome . "
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have pain in your toes and they look purple in color or dark in color .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all of the side effects of warfarin sodium .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP ?
• Store warfarin sodium at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep warfarin sodium in a tightly closed container , and keep warfarin sodium out of the light .
Keep Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about warfarin sodium .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use warfarin sodium for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give warfarin sodium to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about warfarin sodium .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about warfarin sodium that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in Warfarin Sodium Tablets , USP ?
Active ingredient : Warfarin Sodium Inactive ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , corn starch , and magnesium stearate 1 mg : D & C Red No . 6 Barium Lake 2 mg : FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake 2 . 5 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake 3 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake 4 mg : FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake 5 mg : D & C Red No . 6 Barium Lake , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake 6 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake 7 . 5 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 26110 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : October 2011 ** The brands listed are registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . or its affiliates .
Revised : November , 2011 90145 - 1111 - 13 Warfarin 10 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
