Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue lidocaine - containing products and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredient Methyl Salicylate 4 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves mild to moderate aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • muscle soreness • strains • sprains • arthritis • simple backache • muscle stiffness • bruises Warnings For external use only Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID , which may cause stomach bleeding .
The chance is small , but higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take other drugs containing an NSAID ( Aspirin , Ibuprofen , Naproxen , or others ) • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • have three or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use • on the face or rashes ; on wounds or damaged skin • in the eyes , mouth , or other mucous membranes • on genitals • with a heating pad • if allergic to any NSAIDS • right before or after heart surgery • any patch from a pouch that has been opened for 7 or more days Ask a doctor before use if • you are allergic to topical products • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you are taking a diuretic • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , or kidney disease • you are pregnant When using this product • wash hands after applying or removing patch • avoid contact with eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Stop use and consult your physician if • stomach pain or upset gets worse or lasts • rash , irritation , or itching develops • you feel faint , vomit blood , or have bloody or black stools ( these are signs of stomach bleeding ) • condition worsens If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a doctor before use while breast feeding and during the first 6 months of pregnancy .
Do not use during last 3 months of pregnancy because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
If put in mouth , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Package not child resistant .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together .
Directions Adults 18 years and older : • Apply patch to affected area 1 to 2 times daily or as directed .
Instructions for Use • clean and dry affected area • open pouch and remove one patch containing medical adhesive backing • remove protective film from both patch and medical adhesive • apply one patch to the affected area of pain and leave in place for 8 to 12 hours • if pain lasts after using the first patch , a second patch may be applied for up to another 8 to 12 hours • only use one patch at a time • do not use more than 2 patches per day • wash hands with soap and water after applying or removing patch • reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use Children under 18 years of age : Do not use Other information • some individuals may not experience pain relief until several minutes or hours after applying the patch • avoid storing product in direct sunlight • protect product from excessive moisture • store at 67 - 77 ° F ( 19 - 25 ° C ) Acrylic Acid , Aluminum Hydroxide , Carmellose Sodium , 2 - Ethylhexyl Acrylate , Glycerin , Isopropyl Myristate , Methyl Acrylate , Nonoxynol - 30 , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Sodium Polyacrylate , Sorbitan Sesquioleate , Starch , Talc , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water Manufactured For : Terrain Pharmaceuticals Reno , NV 89501 Formulated and Designed in Nevada Assembled in China Patent Pending LidoProTM patch For questions or comments , call 877 - 985 - 8377 Relabeled by Preferred Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68788 - 7687 - 01 Professional Use Only LidoPro ™ patch Transdermal Pain Relief Patch & Medical Adhesive Deep Penetrating Long Lasting Soothing 15 Patches [ MULTIMEDIA ]
