Keep carton for future reference .
Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Cimetidine 200 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to cimetidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • kidney disease • liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • stomach pain continues • your heartburn continues or worsens If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older : ▪ to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water ▪ to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water right before or any time up to 30 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn ▪ do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information store at 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients cellulose , corn starch , FD & C Blue # 1 Lake , flavor , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide Questions ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 482 - 4394 weekdays PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Tagamet ® HB 200 Cimetidine Tablets 200 mg Acid Reducer 30 tablets ( 30 doses ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
