1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VTAMA ® ( tapinarof ) cream , 1 % is an aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in adults .
VTAMA cream , 1 % is an aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of VTAMA cream to affected areas once daily .
Wash hands after application , unless VTAMA cream is for treatment of the hands .
VTAMA cream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin layer of VTAMA cream to affected areas once daily .
VTAMA cream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 1 % Each gram of VTAMA cream contains 10 mg of tapinarof in a white to off - white cream .
Cream , 1 % Each gram of VTAMA cream contains 10 mg of tapinarof .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) in subjects treated with VTAMA cream were folliculitis , nasopharyngitis , contact dermatitis , headache , and pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Dermavant Sciences , Inc . at 1 - 8 DERMAVANT or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two randomized , double - blind , multicenter , vehicle - controlled clinical trials ( PSOARING 1 and PSOARING 2 ) , 1025 adults with plaque psoriasis were treated with VTAMA cream or vehicle cream once daily for up to 12 weeks .
Subjects ranged in age from 18 to 75 years , with an overall median age of 51 years .
The majority of subjects were white ( 85 % ) and male ( 57 % ) ; and 85 % were non - Hispanic or Latino .
Table 1 presents adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with VTAMA Cream , and for which the rate exceeded the rate for vehicle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Two ( 0 . 3 % ) subjects using VTAMA cream developed urticaria .
Adverse reactions leading to treatment discontinuation in > 1 % of subjects who received VTAMA cream were contact dermatitis ( 2 . 9 % ) and folliculitis ( 2 . 8 % ) .
In an open label safety trial ( PSOARING 3 ) , 763 subjects were treated for up to an additional 40 weeks after completing PSOARING 1 or PSOARING 2 .
In addition to the adverse reactions reported in the 12 - week PSOARING 1 and PSOARING 2 clinical trials , the following adverse reactions were reported : urticaria ( 1 . 0 % ) and drug eruption ( 0 . 7 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data on VTAMA cream use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , subcutaneous administration of tapinarof to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in no significant adverse effects at doses 268 and 16 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of major birth defects , loss , and other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal development study in rats , tapinarof was administered by subcutaneous injection to pregnant animals at doses of 1 . 2 , 6 . 9 and 34 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Tapinarof was not associated with embryofetal lethality or fetal malformations .
Tapinarof increased the incidence of skeletal variations ( incomplete ossification of nasal bones ) at the dose of 34 mg / kg / day ( 268 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
In an embryofetal development study in rabbits , tapinarof was administered by subcutaneous injection to pregnant animals twice daily at doses of 0 . 3 , 1 , and 3 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Maternal toxicity as evidenced by decreased maternal body weight gain and associated increased post - implantation loss ( embryolethality ) was observed at 3 mg / kg / day .
In addition , fetal skeletal variations were observed at 3 mg / kg / day .
Tapinarof was not associated with embryofetal lethality or fetal malformations at doses up to 1 mg / kg / day ( 16 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) or fetal malformations at doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
In a second embryofetal development study in rabbits , tapinarof was administered by continuous subcutaneous infusion to pregnant animals at doses of 1 , 2 and 3 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
Tapinarof was not associated with embryofetal lethality or fetal malformations at doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( 20 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study , tapinarof was administered by subcutaneous injection to pregnant rats at doses of 1 , 6 and 30 mg / kg / day beginning on gestation day 6 through lactation day 20 .
Maternal toxicity associated with decreases in body weight gain and food consumption was noted at 30 mg / kg / day ( 268 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
Tapinarof decreased fetal survival and viability that resulted in reduced litter sizes and decreased fetal weights at doses greater than or equal to 6 mg / kg / day ( 45 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No tapinarof - related effects on fetal survival and viability were noted at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No tapinarof - related effects on postnatal development , neurobehavioral or reproductive performance of offspring were noted at doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( 268 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary No data are available regarding the presence of tapinarof in human milk or the effects of tapinarof on the breastfed infant , or on milk production .
Tapinarof was detected in rat offspring following subcutaneous administration to pregnant female rats which suggests that tapinarof was transferred into the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VTAMA cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from VTAMA cream or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data In a prenatal and postnatal development study , tapinarof was administered by subcutaneous injection to pregnant rats at doses of 1 , 6 , and 30 mg / kg / day from gestation day 6 through lactation day 20 .
Tapinarof was quantifiable in offspring plasma samples on postnatal day 10 at doses of 6 and 30 mg / kg / day , suggesting that tapinarof is present in animal milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of VTAMA cream have not been established in pediatric subjects with psoriasis under 18 years of age .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data In a juvenile animal toxicity study , tapinarof was administered by subcutaneous injection to juvenile rats at doses of 1 , 10 and 20 mg / kg / day from postnatal day ( PND ) 7 to 21 and at doses of 1 . 5 , 15 , and 30 mg / kg / day from PND 22 to 77 .
The dose escalation conducted at PND 22 was implemented to maintain consistent systemic exposure across the duration of the dosing period .
Renal pelvic dilatation was observed at doses greater than or equal to 15 mg / kg / day ( 165 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No adverse effects in juvenile animals were noted at 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 11 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 683 subjects exposed to VTAMA cream in the PSOARING 1 or PSOARING 2 clinical trials , 99 ( 14 . 5 % ) were 65 years of age and older , including 8 ( 1 . 2 % ) subjects who were 75 years of age and older .
No overall differences in efficacy , safety , or tolerability were observed between elderly subjects and younger adult subjects in clinical trials .
11 DESCRIPTION VTAMA ( tapinarof ) cream contains tapinarof as the active ingredient .
Tapinarof is an aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist .
Tapinarof is a white to pale brown powder .
Chemically , tapinarof is 3 , 5 - dihydroxy - 4 - isopropyl - trans - stilbene , also known as ( E ) - 2 - isopropyl - 5 - styrylbenzene - 1 , 3 diol , with the empirical formula C17H18O2 , a molecular weight of 254 . 32 , and the following structural formula .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of VTAMA cream for topical use contains 10 mg of tapinarof in a white to off - white cream .
VTAMA cream also contains the following inactive ingredients : benzoic acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , citric acid monohydrate , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , edetate disodium , emulsifying wax , medium - chain triglycerides , polyoxyl 2 stearyl ether , polyoxyl 20 stearyl ether , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium citrate dihydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tapinarof is an aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) agonist .
The specific mechanisms by which VTAMA cream exerts its therapeutic action in psoriasis patients are unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of VTAMA cream are unknown .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the approved recommended dosage , VTAMA does not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No accumulation was observed with repeat topical application .
Plasma concentration of tapinarof was below the quantifiable limits ( BQL ) of the assay ( lower limit of quantification was 50 pg / mL ) in 68 % of the pharmacokinetic samples .
On Day 1 , mean ± SD values of C max and AUC 0 - last were 0 . 90 ± 1 . 4 ng / mL and 4 . 1 ± 6 . 3 ng . h / mL , respectively , following a mean daily dose of 5 . 23 g applied to a mean body surface area involvement of 27 . 2 % ( range 21 to 46 % ) in 21 subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
On Day 29 , the mean ± SD C max and AUC 0 - last were 0 . 12 ± 0 . 15 ng / mL and 0 . 61 ± 0 . 65 ng . h / mL , respectively .
Distribution Human plasma protein binding of tapinarof is approximately 99 % in vitro .
Elimination Metabolism Tapinarof is metabolized in the liver by multiple pathways including oxidation , glucuronidation , and sulfation in vitro .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : Tapinarof is not an inhibitor of CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CRP2D6 or CYP3A4 / 5 .
Tapinarof is not an inducer of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 or CYP3A4 .
Transporter Systems : Tapinarof is not an inhibitor of BCRP , MATE1 , MATE - 2 K , OAT1 , OAT3 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , or P - gp .
Tapinarof is not a substrate for BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , or P - gp .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice ( daily topical administration at doses of 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 and 3 % tapinarof cream ) and in rats ( subcutaneous administration at doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 3 , and 1 mg / kg / day tapinarof ) .
No drug - related neoplasms were noted in mice after 98 ( females ) to 102 ( males ) weeks of daily topical administration at doses up to 3 % tapinarof cream ( 44 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No drug - related neoplasms were noted in female rats after 83 weeks of daily subcutaneous administration at doses up to 1 mg / kg / day tapinarof ( 9 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
Tapinarof revealed no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity in an Ames assay , an in vitro mammalian chromosomal aberration assay , an in vitro mouse lymphoma assay and two in vivo micronucleus assays in mice and rats .
Tapinarof did not impair female fertility at subcutaneous doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( 268 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials were conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of VTAMA cream for the treatment of adults with plaque psoriasis ( PSOARING 1 [ NCT03956355 ] and PSOARING 2 [ NCT03983980 ] ) .
These trials were conducted in a total of 1025 subjects randomized 2 : 1 to VTAMA cream or vehicle cream applied once daily for 12 weeks to any lesion regardless of anatomic location .
Baseline disease severity was graded using the 5 - point Physician ’ s Global Assessment ( PGA ) .
The majority of subjects had “ Moderate ” disease ( 82 % ) , while 10 % had “ Mild ” disease , and 8 % had “ Severe ” disease at baseline .
The extent of disease involvement assessed by mean body surface area ( BSA ) , excluding the scalp , palms , and soles , was 8 % ( range 3 to 20 % ) .
Subjects ranged in age from 18 to 75 years , with a median age of 51 years .
Overall , 57 % of the subjects were male and 85 % were White .
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was the proportion of subjects who achieved treatment success , defined as a PGA score of “ Clear ” ( 0 ) or “ Almost Clear ” ( 1 ) and at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline .
Efficacy results from the two trials are summarized in Table 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Following 12 weeks of treatment , 73 subjects randomized to VTAMA achieved complete disease clearance ( PGA 0 ) and had VTAMA withdrawn .
These subjects were followed for up to 40 additional weeks with a median time to first worsening ( PGA ≥ 2 [ “ Mild ” ] ) of 114 days ( 95 % CI : 85 , 142 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VTAMA ( tapinarof ) cream , 1 % is a white to off - white cream .
Each gram of VTAMA cream contains 10 mg of tapinarof .
It is supplied in the following size : 60 g laminated tubes : NDC 81672 - 5051 - 1 Storage and Handling : - Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
- Do not freeze .
- Protect from exposure to excessive heat .
- Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Administration Instructions • Apply VTAMA cream once daily to psoriasis skin lesions only and avoid unaffected areas of skin .
• Wash hands after application unless VTAMA cream is for treatment of the hands .
• Advise patients that VTAMA cream is for external use only .
Marketed by : Dermavant Sciences Inc . , 3780 Kilroy Airport Way , Long Beach , CA 90806 VTAMA is a registered trademark of Dermavant Sciences , GmbH or its affiliates .
U . S . Patents : www . dermavant . com / patents PATIENT INFORMATION VTAMA ® ( Vee - TAM - uh ) ( tapinarof ) cream , for topical use Important information : VTAMA cream is for use on the skin ( topical use ) only .
Do not use VTAMA cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is VTAMA cream ?
VTAMA cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat plaque psoriasis in adults .
It is not known if VTAMA cream is safe and effective in children with psoriasis under 18 years of age .
Before using VTAMA cream , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VTAMA cream will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VTAMA cream passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with VTAMA cream .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use VTAMA cream ?
• Use VTAMA cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Apply a thin layer of VTAMA cream only to your psoriasis skin lesions 1 time a day .
Avoid applying VTAMA cream to unaffected areas of your skin .
• Wash your hands after applying VTAMA cream unless you are using it to treat your hands .
• If someone else applies VTAMA cream for you , they should wash their hands after application .
What are the possible side effects of VTAMA cream ?
The most common side effects of VTAMA cream include : • red raised bumps around the hair pores ( folliculitis ) • pain or swelling in the nose and throat ( nasopharyngitis ) • skin rash or irritation including itching and redness , peeling , burning , or stinging • headache • itching • flu These are not all the possible side effects of VTAMA cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VTAMA cream ?
• Store VTAMA cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze VTAMA cream .
• Protect VTAMA cream from exposure to excessive heat .
• Keep VTAMA cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VTAMA cream .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VTAMA cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VTAMA cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about VTAMA cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in VTAMA cream ?
Active ingredient : tapinarof Inactive ingredients : benzoic acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , citric acid monohydrate , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , edetate disodium , emulsifying wax , medium - chain triglycerides , polyoxyl 2 stearyl ether , polyoxyl 20 stearyl ether , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium citrate dihydrate .
Marketed by : Dermavant Sciences Inc . , 3780 Kilroy Airport Way , Long Beach , CA 90806 For more information , go to www . VTAMA . com or call 1 - 8 DERMAVANT U . S . Patents : www . dermavant . com / patents VTAMA is a registered trademark of Dermavant Sciences , GmbH or its affiliates This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 05 / 2022 Package Label 60 g Tube [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 g Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
