For Topical Use Only DESCRIPTION AVITA ® Gel , a topical retinoid , contains tretinoin 0 . 025 % by weight in a gel vehicle of butylated hydroxytoluene , hydroxypropyl cellulose , polyolprepolymer - 2 , and ethanol ( denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 83 % w / w .
Chemically , tretinoin is all - trans - retinoic acid ( C20H28O2 ; molecular weight 300 . 44 vitamin A acid ) and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mode of action of tretinoin is unknown , current evidence suggests that topical tretinoin decreases cohesiveness of follicular epithelial cells with decreased microcomedo formation .
Additionally , tretinoin stimulates mitotic activity and increased turnover of follicular epithelial cells causing extrusion of the comedones .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo pharmacokinetic studies with AVITA ® Gel indicate that less than 0 . 3 % of the topically applied dose is bioavailable .
Circulating plasma levels of both tretinoin and isotretinoin are only slightly elevated above those found in healthy normal controls .
CLINICAL STUDIES In two large vehicle - controlled clinical trials , AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel 0 . 025 % , applied once daily was more effective than vehicle in the treatment of facial acne vulgaris of mild to moderate severity .
Percent reductions in lesion counts after treatment for 12 weeks in these studies are shown in the following Tables : Study 1 AVITA ® Gel , 0 . 025 % Vehicle Gel N = 198 N = 204 Noninflammatory Lesions - 36 % - 27 % Inflammatory Lesions - 35 % - 25 % Total Lesions - 36 % - 27 % Study 2 AVITA ® Gel , 0 . 025 % Vehicle Gel N = 58 N = 58 N = Number of Subjects Noninflammatory Lesions - 42 % - 26 % Inflammatory Lesions - 38 % - 23 % Total Lesions - 41 % - 26 % INDICATIONS AND USAGE AVITA ® Gel is indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
The safety and efficacy of this product in the treatment of other disorders have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The product should not be used if there is hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNINGS GELS ARE FLAMMABLE .
Note : Keep away from heat and flame .
Keep tube tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps or artificial sunlight should be minimized during the use of AVITA ® Gel , and patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin .
Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with tretinoin .
AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % should be kept away from the eyes , the mouth , the paranasal creases , and mucous membranes . Topical use may induce severe local erythema and peeling at the site of application .
If the degree of local irritation warrants , patients should be directed to temporarily use the medication less frequently , discontinue use temporarily , or discontinue use altogether .
Efficacy at reduced frequencies of application has not been established .
Tretinoin has been reported to cause severe irritation on eczematous skin and should be used with utmost caution in patients with this condition .
Information for Patients See attached Patient Package Insert .
Drug Interactions Concomitant topical medication , medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices or lime should be used with caution because of possible interaction with tretinoin .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid with AVITA ® Gel .
It also is advisable to “ rest ” a patient ’ s skin until the effects of such preparations subside before use of AVITA ® Gel is begun .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In a dermal mouse carcinogenicity study with AVITA ® Gel , tretinoin was administered to CD - 1 mice at topical doses of 0 . 027 mg / kg ( 0 . 003 % gel ) , 0 . 072 mg / kg ( 0 . 008 % gel ) , and 0 . 225 mg / kg ( 0 . 025 % gel ) for 2 years ( 5 doses / week ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this mouse carcinogenicity study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 0 . 225 mg / kg in both male and female mice , which was 2 . 6 times the recommended human topical clinical dose ( based on weekly dose BSA comparison ) .
For purposes of comparisons of the animal exposure to human exposure , the “ recommended human topical clinical dose ” is defined as 1 . 0 g of 0 . 025 % AVITA ® Gel applied daily to a 50 kg person .
In a chronic , two - year bioassay of vitamin A acid in mice performed by Tsubura and Yamamoto , generalized amyloid deposition was reported in all vitamin A treated groups in the basal layer of the skin .
In CD - 1 mice , a similar study reported hyalinization at the treated skin sites and the incidence of this finding was 0 / 50 , 3 / 50 , 3 / 50 , and 2 / 50 in male mice and 1 / 50 , 0 / 50 , 4 / 50 , and 2 / 50 in female mice from the vehicle control , 0 . 25 mg / kg , 0 . 5 mg / kg , and 1 mg / kg groups , respectively .
Studies in hairless albino mice suggest that tretinoin may enhance the tumorigenic potential of carcinogenic doses of UVA and UVB light from a solar simulator .
In other studies , when lightly pigmented hairless mice treated with tretinoin were exposed to carcinogenic doses of UVA / UVB light , the incidence and rate of development of skin tumors were either reduced or no effect was seen .
Due to significantly different experimental conditions , no strict comparison of these disparate data is possible at this time .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should minimize exposure to sun .
The mutagenic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in the Ames assay and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , both of which were negative .
Dermal Segment I and III studies with AVITA ® Gel have not been performed in any species .
In oral Segment I and Segment III studies in rats with tretinoin , decreased survival of neonates and growth retardation were observed at doses in excess of 2 mg / kg / day ( > 400 times the average recommended human topical clinical dose ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Oral tretinoin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats , mice , rabbits , hamsters , and subhuman primates .
It was teratogenic and fetotoxic in rats when given orally in doses 1000 times the average recommended human topical clinical dose .
However , variations in teratogenic doses among various strains of rats have been reported .
In the cynomolgus monkey , which metabolically is closer to humans for tretinoin than other species examined , fetal malformations were reported at oral doses of 10 mg / kg / day or greater , but none were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( 1000 times the average recommended human topical clinical dose ) , although increased skeletal variations were observed at all doses .
Dose - related increased embryolethality and abortion were reported .
Similar results have also been reported in pigtail macaques .
Topical tretinoin in animal teratogenicity tests has generated equivocal results .
There is evidence for teratogenicity ( shortened or kinked tail ) of topical tretinoin in Wistar rats at doses greater than 1 mg / kg / day ( 200 times the recommended human topical clinical dose ) .
Anomalies ( humerus : short 13 % , bent 6 % ; os parietal incompletely ossified 14 % ) have also been reported in rats when 10 mg / kg / day was dermally applied .
Topical tretinoin ( AVITA ® Gel , 0 . 025 % ) has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given in doses 364 times the topical human dose for gel ( assuming a 50 kg adult applies 1 . 0 g of 0 . 025 % gel topically ) .
In this study , increased incidence of cleft palate and hydrocephaly was reported in the tretinoin - treated animals .
There are other reports , in New Zealand White rabbits with doses of approximately 80 times the recommended human topical clinical dose , of an increased incidence of domed head and hydrocephaly , typical of retinoid - induced fetal malformations in this species .
When given subcutaneously to rabbits , tretinoin was teratogenic at 2 mg / kg / day but not at 1 mg / kg / day .
These doses are approximately 400 and 200 times , respectively , the human topical dose of tretinoin gel , 0 . 025 % ( assuming a 50 kg adult applies 1 . 0 g of 0 . 025 % gel topically ) .
In contrast , several well - controlled animal studies have shown that dermally applied tretinoin was not teratogenic at doses of 100 and 200 times the recommended human topical clinical dose , in rats and rabbits , respectively .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Thirty cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported during two decades of clinical use of another formulation of topical tretinoin ( Retin - A ) .
Although no definite pattern of teratogenicity and no causal association have been established from these cases , 5 of the reports describe the rare birth defect category , holoprosencephaly ( defects associated with incomplete midline development of the forebrain ) .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to the fetus is not known .
Nonteratogenic Effects Dermal tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rabbits when administered in doses 100 times the recommended topical human clinical dose .
Oral tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rats when administered in doses 500 times the recommended topical human clinical dose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % should not be used during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AVITA ® Gel is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The skin of certain sensitive individuals may become excessively red , edematous , blistered , or crusted .
If these effects occur , the medication should either be discontinued until the integrity of the skin is restored , or the medication dosing frequency should be adjusted temporarily to a level the patient can tolerate .
However , efficacy has not been established for lower dosing frequencies .
True contact allergy to topical tretinoin is rarely encountered . Temporary hyper - or hypopigmentation has been reported with repeated application of AVITA ® Gel .
Some individuals have been reported to have heightened susceptibility to sunlight while under treatment with AVITA ® Gel .
Adverse effects of AVITA ® Gel have been reversible upon discontinuation of therapy ( see Dosage and Administration Section ) .
OVERDOSAGE If medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
Oral ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of vitamin A . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AVITA ® Gel should be applied once a day , in the evening , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
Application may cause a transient feeling of warmth or slight stinging .
In cases where it has been necessary to temporarily discontinue therapy or reduce the frequency of application , therapy may be resumed or frequency of application increased when the patients become able to tolerate the treatment .
Alterations of dose frequency should be closely monitored by careful observation of the clinical therapeutic response and skin tolerance .
Efficacy has not been established for less than once - daily dosing frequencies .
During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent increase in number and exacerbation of inflammatory acne lesions may occur .
This is due , in part , to the action of the medication on deep , previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
Therapeutic results should be noticed after two to three weeks , but more than six weeks of therapy may be required before definite beneficial effects are seen .
Patients treated with AVITA ® Gel may use cosmetics , but the areas to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied ( see Precautions Section ) .
HOW SUPPLIED AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % is supplied as : NDC Code Strength Quantity 0378 - 6140 - 44 0 . 025 % 20 g 0378 - 6140 - 45 0 . 025 % 45 g Storage Conditions : Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Revised : 1 / 2018 022 . 7 AVITAGL : R7 Remove this portion before dispensing AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) GEL , 0 . 025 % PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS Acne Treatment IMPORTANT Read Directions Carefully Before Using THIS LEAFLET TELLS YOU ABOUT AVITA ® ( TRETINOIN ) GEL ACNE TREATMENT AS PRESCRIBED BY YOUR PHYSICIAN .
THIS PRODUCT IS TO BE USED ONLY ACCORDING TO YOUR DOCTOR ’ S INSTRUCTIONS , AND IT SHOULD NOT BE APPLIED TO OTHER AREAS OF THE BODY OR TO OTHER GROWTHS OR LESIONS .
THE SAFETY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS PRODUCT IN OTHER DISORDERS HAVE NOT BEEN EVALUATED .
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS , BE SURE TO ASK YOUR DOCTOR .
WARNINGS GELS ARE FLAMMABLE .
Note : Keep away from heat and flame .
Keep tube tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS The effects of the sun on your skin : As you know , overexposure to natural sunlight or the artificial sunlight of a sunlamp can cause sunburn .
Overexposure to the sun over many years may cause premature aging of the skin and even skin cancer . The chances of these effects occurring will vary depending on skin type , the climate and the care taken to avoid overexposure to the sun .
Therapy with AVITA ® Gel may make your skin more susceptible to sunburn and other adverse effects of the sun , so unprotected exposure to natural or artificial sunlight should be minimized .
Laboratory findings : When laboratory mice are exposed to artificial sunlight , they often develop skin tumors .
These sunlight - induced tumors may appear more quickly and in greater number if the mouse is also topically treated with the active ingredient in AVITA ® Gel , tretinoin .
In some studies , under different conditions , however , when mice treated with tretinoin were exposed to artificial sunlight , the incidence and rate of development of skin tumors was reduced .
There is no evidence to date that tretinoin alone will cause the development of skin tumors in either laboratory animals or humans .
Use caution in the sun : When outside , even on hazy days , areas treated with AVITA ® Gel should be protected .
An effective sunscreen should be used any time you are outside ( consult your physician for a recommendation of an SPF level which will provide you with the necessary high level of protection ) .
For extended sun exposure , protective clothing , like a hat , should be worn .
Do not use artificial sunlamps or artificial sunlight while you are using AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % .
If you do become sunburned , stop your therapy with AVITA ® Gel until your skin has recovered .
Avoid excessive exposure to wind or cold : Extremes of climate tend to dry or burn normal skin .
Skin treated with AVITA ® Gel may be more vulnerable to these extremes . Your physician can recommend ways to manage your acne treatment under such conditions .
Possible problems : The skin of certain sensitive individuals may become excessively red , swollen , blistered , or crusted .
If you are experiencing severe or persistent irritation , discontinue the use of AVITA ® Gel and consult your physician .
There have been reports that , in some patients , areas treated with AVITA ® Gel developed a temporary increase or decrease in the amount of skin pigment ( color ) present .
Use other medication only on your physician ’ s advice : Only your physician knows which other medications may be helpful during treatment and will recommend them to you if necessary .
Follow the physician ’ s instructions carefully .
In addition , you should avoid preparations that may dry or irritate your skin .
These preparations may include certain astringents , toiletries containing alcohol , spices or lime , or certain medicated soaps , shampoos , and hair permanent solutions .
Do not allow anyone else to use this medication .
Do not use other medications with AVITA ® Gel which are not recommended by your doctor .
The medications you have used in the past might cause unnecessary redness or peeling .
If you are pregnant , think you are pregnant , or are nursing an infant : No studies have been conducted in humans to establish the safety of AVITA ® Gel in pregnant women .
If you are pregnant , think you are pregnant , or are nursing a baby , consult your physician before using this medication .
AND WHILE YOU ’ RE ON AVITA ® THERAPY Use a mild non - medicated soap .
Avoid frequent washings and harsh scrubbing .
Acne isn ’ t caused by dirt , so no matter how hard you scrub , you can ’ t wash it away .
Washing too frequently or scrubbing too roughly may at times actually make your acne worse .
Wash your skin gently with a mild , bland soap .
Two or three times a day should be sufficient .
Pat skin dry with a towel .
Let the face dry 20 to 30 minutes before applying AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % .
Remember , excessive irritation such as rubbing , too much washing , use of other medications not suggested by your physician , etc . , may worsen your acne .
HOW TO USE AVITA ® ( tretinoin ) GEL To get the best results with AVITA ® Gel therapy , it is necessary to use it properly .
Forget about the instructions given for other products and the advice of friends .
Just stick to the special plan your doctor has laid out for you and be patient .
Remember , when AVITA ® Gel is used properly , many users see improvement by 12 weeks .
AGAIN , FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS - BE PATIENT – DON ’ T START AND STOP THERAPY ON YOUR OWN - IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS , ASK YOUR DOCTOR .
To help you use the medication correctly , keep these simple instructions in mind .
• • AVITA ® Gel should be applied once a day , in the evening , or as directed by your physician , to the skin where acne lesions appear , using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly .
First , wash with a mild soap and dry your skin gently .
WAIT 20 to 30 MINUTES BEFORE APPLYING MEDICATION ; it is important for skin to be completely dry in order to minimize possible irritation .
• • It is better not to use more than the amount suggested by your physician or to apply more frequently than instructed .
Too much may irritate the skin , waste medication , and won ’ t give faster or better results .
• • Keep the medication away from the corners of the nose , mouth , eyes , and open wounds .
Spread away from these areas when applying .
• • Gel : Squeeze about a half inch or less of medication onto the fingertip .
While that should be enough for your whole face , after you have had some experience with the medication you may find you need slightly more or less to do the job .
The medication should become invisible almost immediately .
If it is still visible , or if dry flaking occurs from the gel within a minute or so you are using too much .
Cover the affected area lightly with AVITA ® Gel by first dabbing it on your forehead , chin , and both cheeks , then spreading it over the entire affected area .
Smooth gently into the skin .
• • If needed , you may apply a moisturizer or a moisturizer with sunscreen that will not aggravate your acne ( noncomedogenic ) in the morning after you wash .
WHAT TO EXPECT WITH YOUR NEW TREATMENT AVITA ® ( tretinoin gel ) Gel , 0 . 025 % works deep inside your skin and this takes time .
You cannot make AVITA ® Gel work any faster by applying more than one dose each day , but an excess amount of AVITA ® Gel may irritate your skin .
Be patient .
There may be some discomfort or peeling during the early days of treatment .
Some patients also notice that their skin begins to take on a blush .
These reactions do not happen to everyone .
If they do , it is just your skin adjusting to AVITA ® Gel and this usually subsides within two to four weeks .
These reactions can usually be minimized by following instructions carefully .
Should the effects become excessively troublesome , consult your doctor .
BY THREE TO SIX WEEKS , some patients notice an appearance of new blemishes ( papules and pustules ) .
At this stage it is important to continue using AVITA ® Gel .
If AVITA ® Gel is going to have a beneficial effect for you , you should notice an improvement in your appearance by 6 to 12 weeks of therapy .
Don ’ t be discouraged if you see no immediate improvement .
Don ’ t stop treatment at the first signs of improvement .
Once your acne is under control , you should continue regular application of AVITA ® Gel until your physician instructs otherwise .
Call your doctor for medical adviceabout side effects .
You may reportside effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Revised : 1 / 2018 022 . 7 PL Printed in U . S . A . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 025 % Rx only NDC 0378 - 6140 - 44 AVITA ® ( tretinoin ) Gel 0 . 025 % 20 g For Topical Use Only Contains : Tretinoin 0 . 025 % in a gel vehicle of butylated hydroxytoluene , hydroxypropyl cellulose , polyolprepolymer - 2 , ethanol ( denatured with tertbutyl alcohol and brucine sulfate ) 83 % w / w .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying package insert for full prescribing information .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
See end flap for lot number and expiration date .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Mylan . com MI : 6140 : 45 : 1 C : R6 551 . 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
