Active ingredient Stannous fluoride 0 . 40 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity / Sensitivity Relief / Antigingivitis Uses • Aids in the prevention of cavities • Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets or contact • Helps prevent gingivitis • Helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis Warnings Keep out of the reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks , see your dentist .
See your dentist immediately if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth , or increasing spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens .
Do not use this product for sensitivity relief longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Directions Adults and children 6 years of age or older : Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste .
Apply the gel to your teeth and brush thoroughly .
Allow the gel to remain on your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow the gel .
Do not rinse , eat or drink for 30 minutes after brushing .
Instruct children under 12 years of age in the use of this product ( to minimize swallowing ) .
Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information This is an anticavity / fluoride preventive treatment gel , not a toothpaste .
Read directions carefully before using .
Products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
• Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing • Keep tightly closed when not in use • Store at controlled room temperature Inactive ingredients Acesulfame K , calcium / sodium maleate methyl vinyl ether copolymer , calcium sulfate , cocamidopropyl betaine , dimethicone , flavors , glycerin , lauroyl - sarcosine , monosodium phosphate , poloxamer 407 , polyethylene glycol , silica , sucralose Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 888 - 670 - 6100 Monday - Thursday 8 am - 5 pm EST , Friday 8 am - 4 pm EST United States Patent Numbers : US 5 , 993 , 784 , US 5 , 711 , 936 , US 5 , 651 , 959 and other patents pending .
Made in U . S . A . Ultramulsion ® is a registered trademark of WhiteHill Oral Technologies , Inc .
Clinically Proven Active Ingredient for Anticavity , Antigingivitis and Sensitive Teeth • Relieves the discomfort of dry mouth tissues • Non - irritating to patients with dry mouth • Optimized with calcium and phosphate ions • No Sodium Lauryl Sulfate ( SLS ) , No Gluten , No Dyes Distributed by : Premier ® Dental Products Company , Plymouth Meeting , PA 19462 www . premusa . com Part # 9007285 www . enamelon . com NDC 48783 - 500 - 40 021665 Rev4 SP PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL STRENGTHEN YOUR SMILE !
ACP TM Enamel Therapy Premier ® Enamelon ® Preventive Treatment Gel NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) SENSITIVITY & DRY MOUTH Clean Mint HYDRAMULSION ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
