Active Ingredients Each caplet contains : Dextromethorphan HBr 9 mg Guaifenesin 198 mg Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking • asthma , or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this poduct do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if : • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessnss occurs • sysmtoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professhional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 caplets every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 caplet every 4 hours children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • Store at 68 - 77 oF ( 20 - 25 oC ) .
Inactive Ingredients croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , menthol , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , polyvinyl alcohol , pregelatinized starch , silicon dioxide , talc Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 535 - 0305 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST .
Distributed by : GM Pharmaceuticals Arlington , TX 76015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
