FOR I . V . USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION Plastic Vial Rx Only DESCRIPTION Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to intravenous solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL of solution contains 20 . 5 mcg chromic chloride , hexahydrate and 9 mg sodium chloride .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent , or added buffer .
The pH is 2 . 0 ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 ) ; product may contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The osmolarity is 0 . 308 mOsm / mL ( calc . )
.
Chromic Chloride , USP is chemically designated chromic chloride , hexahydrate CrCl3 • 6H2O , a crystalline compound soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white , crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid vial is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The small amount of water vapor that can pass through the plastic container wall will not significantly alter the drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Trivalent chromium is part of glucose tolerance factor , an essential activator of insulin - mediated reactions .
Chromium helps to maintain normal glucose metabolism and peripheral nerve function .
Providing chromium during TPN helps prevent deficiency symptoms including impaired glucose tolerance , ataxia , peripheral neuropathy and a confusional state similar to mild / moderate hepatic encephalopathy .
Serum chromium is bound to transferrin ( siderophilin ) in the beta globulin fraction .
Typical blood levels for chromium range from 1 to 5 mcg / liter , but blood levels are not considered a meaningful index of tissue stores .
Administration of chromium supplements to chromium - deficient patients can result in normalization of the glucose tolerance curve from the diabetic - like curve typical of chromium deficiency .
This response is viewed as a more meaningful indicator of chromium nutriture than serum chromium levels .
Excretion of chromium is via the kidneys , ranging from 3 to 50 mcg / day .
Biliary excretion via the small intestine may be an ancillary route , but only small amounts of chromium are believed to be excreted in this manner .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration helps to maintain chromium serum levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Direct intramuscular or intravenous injection of Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) is contraindicated , as the acidic pH of the solution may cause considerable tissue irritation .
Severe kidney disease may make it necessary to reduce or omit chromium and zinc doses because these elements are primarily eliminated in the urine .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) should only be used in conjunction with a pharmacy directed admixture program using aseptic technique in a laminar flow environment ; it should be used promptly and in a single operation without any repeated penetrations .
Solution contains no preservatives ; discard unused portion immediately after admixture procedure is completed .
In assessing the contribution of chromium supplements to maintenance of glucose homeostasis , consideration should be given to the possibility that the patient may be diabetic .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Laboratory Tests Because chromium is present in the bloodstream in microgram quantities , routine measurement is impractical .
If necessary , samples can be sent to a reference laboratory for assay .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) have not been performed , nor have studies been done to assess mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION section .
Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with chromic chloride .
It is also not known whether chromic chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Chromic chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None known .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE Trivalent chromium administered intravenously to TPN patients has been shown to be nontoxic when given at dosage levels of up to 250 mcg / day for two consecutive weeks .
Reported toxic reactions to chromium include nausea , vomiting , ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract , renal and hepatic damage , convulsions and coma .
The acute LD50 for intravenous trivalent chromium in rats was reported as 10 to 18 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chromium 4 mcg / mL ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) contains 4 mcg chromium / mL and is administered intravenously only after dilution .
The additive should be administered in a volume of fluid not less than 100 mL .
For the adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage is 10 to 15 mcg chromium / day ( 2 . 5 to 3 . 75 mL / day ) .
The metabolically stable adult with intestinal fluid loss may require 20 mcg chromium / day ( 5 mL / day ) , with frequent monitoring of blood levels as a guideline for subsequent administration .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage is 0 . 14 to 0 . 20 mcg / kg / day ( 0 . 035 to 0 . 05 mL / kg / day ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Chromium ( Chromic Chloride Injection , USP ) is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 4093 - 01 40 mcg / 10 mL Tray of 25 Single - dose plastic vials ( 4 mcg / mL ) Store at 20 to 25ºC ( 68 to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1065 - 3 . 0 Revised : 4 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label 10 mL Single - dose Vial CHROMIUM Chromic Chloride Inj . , USP 40 mcg / 10 mL ( 4 mcg / mL ) Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Tray 10 mL Single - dose Vial Rx only NDC 0409 - 4093 - 01 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 4093 - 11 CHROMIUM Chromic Chloride Injection , USP 40 mcg / 10 mL ( 4 mcg / mL ) CAUTION : FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
