Active Ingredient ( s ) Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Use ( s ) For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth and sore throat .
Warnings Sore Throat Warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat that accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or give to children under 6 years of age unless directed by doctor .
When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • ▪ irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • ▪ swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast feeding ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children If more than used for minor mouth or throat pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • ▪ Adults and children 6 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area ( one spray ) .
Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , and then spit out .
• ▪ Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist .
• ▪ Children 6 years to under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
• ▪ Children under 6 years : Consult a doctor or dentist .
Other Information • • Store at room temperature • • Check expiration date before using .
Inactive Ingredients FD & C Red No . 40 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel * Compare to Chloraseptic ® active ingredient * NDC # 41250 - 632 - 06 SORE THROAT SPRAY Phenol / Oral Pain Reliever Sugar - free Aspirin - free Alcohol - free Natural Cherry Flavor 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) Tamper - Evident : Do not use if imprinted shrink band is broken or missing DISTRIBUTED BY : MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Chloraseptic ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
