INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 1 Indication BLEMISH ERASER is a combination of hydrocortisone ( a corticosteroid ) , hydroquinone ( a melanin synthesis inhibitor ) , and a tretinoin ( a retinoid ) that is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions age and liver spots , freckles , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation , in the presence of measures for sun avoidance , including the use of sunscreen .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of BLEMISH ERASER in pregnant women and nursing mothers have not been established .
BLEMISH ERASER is a hydroquinone ( a melanin synthesis inhibitor ) that is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions age and liver spots , freckles , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation , in the presence of measures for sun avoidance , including the use of sunscreen .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently wash the face and neck with a mild cleanser .
Rinse and pat the skin dry .
Apply a thin film of BLEMISH ERASER to the affected area once daily at night or as directed by a doctor .
During the day , use O Skin Sunscreen SPF - 50 , and wear protective clothing .
Avoid sunlight exposure to prevent repigmentation .
BLEMISH ERASER is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently wash the face and neck with a mild cleanser .
Rinse and pat the skin dry .
Apply a thin film of BLEMISH ERASER to the affected area once daily at night or as directed by a doctor .
During the day , use O Skin Sunscreen SPF - 50 , and wear protective clothing .
Avoid sunlight exposure to prevent repigmentation .
BLEMISH ERASER is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 2 % .
Each gram of BLEMISH ERASER contains 20 . 0 mg of hydroquinone in a cream base .
( 3 ) Cream , 2 % .
Each gram of BLEMISH ERASER contains 20 . 0 mg of hydroquinone in a cream base .
( 3 ) BLEMISH ERASER is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components ..
( 4 ) BLEMISH ERASER is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components ..
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity If anaphylaxis , asthma or other clinically significantly hypersensitivity reactions occur , institute appropriate therapy and discontinue BLEMISH ERASER .
Allergic contact dermatitis may also occur .
Since this product contains no sunscreen , an effective broad spectrum sun blocking agent should be used and unnecessary solar exposure avoided , or protective clothing should be worn to cover bleached skin in order to prevent repigmentation from occurring .
5 . 2 Exogenous Ochronosis BLEMISH ERASER contains hydroquinone , which may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy .
Most patients developing this condition are Black , but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics .
5 . 3 .
Effects on Endocrine System Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroid while treatment .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , the use of BLEMISH ERASER should be discontinued .
Recovery of HPA axis function generally occurs upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
5 . 4 Cutaneous Reactions BLEMISH ERASER contains hydroquinone that may cause mild to moderate irritation .
Local irritation , such as skin reddening , peeling , mild burning sensation , dryness , and pruritus may be expected at the site of application .
Transient skin reddening or mild burning sensation does not preclude treatment .
If a reaction suggests hypersensitivity or chemical irritation , discontinue use of the medication and call a doctor .
Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics with drying effects , products with high concentrations of alcohol and astringents , and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on BLEMISH ERASER treatment .
Avoid use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
If anaphylaxis , asthma or other clinically significantly hypersensitivity reactions occur , institute appropriate therapy and discontinue BLEMISH ERASER .
Allergic contact dermatitis may also occur .
( 5 . 1 ) BLEMISH ERASER contains hydroquinone , which may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
In case of adverse reaction , call a doctor .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics with drying effects , products with high concentration of alcohol and astringent , and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on BLEMISH ERASER Cream treatment .
Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C In general , use of drugs should be reduced to a minimum in pregnancy .
If a patient has been inadvertently exposed to BLEMISH ERASER in pregnancy , she should be counseled on the risk of teratogenesis due to this exposure .
The risk of teratogenesis due to topical exposure to BLEMISH ERASER may be considered low .
However , exposure during the period of organogenesis in the first trimester is theoretically more likely to produce adverse outcome than in later pregnancy .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Corticosteroids , when systemically administered , appear in human milk .
It is not known whether topical application of BLEMISH ERASER could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities of hydroquinone in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BLEMISH ERASER is administered to a nursing woman .
Care should be taken to avoid contact between the infant being nursed and BLEMISH ERASER .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of BLEMISH ERASER in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
BLEMISH ERASER should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) 10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION BLEMISH ERASER contains 2 % of hydroquinone , USP , in a cream base for topical application .
Hydroquinone is a melanin synthesis inhibitor .
It is prepared from the reduction of p - benzoquinone with sodium bisulfite .
It occurs as fine white needles that darken on exposure to air .
The chemical name for hydroquinone is : 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The molecular formula is C6H6O2 and molecular weight is 110 . 11 .
Hydroquinone has the following structural formula : BLEMISH ERASER contains Active : 2 % ( 20 mg ) Hydroquinone .
Inactive : 4 - Butylresorcinol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , BHT , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Ceramide - NP , Cetyl Palmitate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Citric Acid , Diazolidinyl Urea , Dimethyl Isosorbide , Glycerin , Hexyl Laurate , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , Kojic Acid , Laureth - 23 , Laureth - 7 , Maltodextrin , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Polyglyceryl - 4 Isostearate , Polysorbate 20 , Retinol , Silica , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Hydroxide , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Trideceth - 6 Phosphate , Triethylene Glycol , Water / Aqua .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of the active ingredients in BLEMISH ERASER in the treatment of melasma is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies of hydroquinone in animals have demonstrated some evidence of carcinogenicity .
The carcinogenic potential of hydroquinone in humans is unknown .
Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies were not conducted with this combination of active ingredients .
Published studies have demonstrated that hydroquinone is a mutagen and a clastogen .
Treatment with hydroquinone has resulted in positive findings for genetic toxicity in the Ames assay in bacterial strains sensitive to oxidizing mutagens , in in vitro studies in mammalian cells , and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Tretinoin has been shown to be negative for mutagenesis in the Ames assay .
Additional information regarding the genetic toxicity potential of tretinoin is not available .
Impairment of Fertility No studies of fertility and early embryonic toxicity of this drug product has been performed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED BLEMISH ERASER is light yellow in color , and supplied in 48 g jar , NDC 71421 - 801 - 30 .
Storage : Keep tightly closed .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C – 30 ° C ( 59 ° F – 86 ° F ) away from direct sunlight .
KEEP REFRIGERATED .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Inform patients of the following : • Advise patients to change to non - hormonal forms of birth control , if hormonal methods are used .
• Use BLEMISH ERASER as directed by the health care provider and do not use BLEMISH ERASER for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
• Avoid exposure to sunlight , sunlamp , or ultraviolet light .
Patients who are consistently exposed to sunlight or skin irritants either through their work environment or habits should exercise particular caution .
Use sunscreen and protective covering ( such as the use of a hat ) over the treated areas .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of melasma therapy , as even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
• Weather extremes , such as heat or cold , may be irritating to patients treated with BLEMISH ERASER .
Because of the drying effect of this medication , a moisturizer may be applied to the face in the morning after washing .
• Keep BLEMISH ERASER away from the eyes , nose , angles of the mouth , or open wounds because these areas are more sensitive to the irritant effect .
If local irritation persists or becomes severe , discontinue application of the medication and consult your health care provider .
Seek medical attention if you experience allergic contact dermatitis , blistering , crusting , and severe burning or swelling of the skin and irritation of the mucous membranes of the eyes , nose , and mouth .
• If the medication is applied excessively , marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
• Wash your hands after each application .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
