WARNING : SEVERE BONE MARROW SUPPRESSION , CNS TOXICITY , HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA , AND PULMONARY TOXICITY Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of antineoplastic therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate injection can severely suppress bone marrow function .
When used at high doses in dose - ranging studies in patients with acute leukemia , fludarabine phosphate injection was associated with severe neurologic effects , including blindness , coma , and death .
This severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate injection .
Patients undergoing treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
WARNING : CNS TOXICITY , HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA , AND PULMONARY TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
This toxicity was seen in less than or equal to 0 . 2 % of patients treated at the recommended dose levels ( 25 mg / m2 ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported after one or more cycles of treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) • In a clinical investigation of the combination of fludarabine phosphate with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
( 5 . 5 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is a nucleotide metabolic inhibitor indicated for : • The treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) who have not responded to or whose disease has progressed during treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
Benefit in treatment - naïve or non - refractory CLL patients is not established .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Indication Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) who have not responded to or whose disease has progressed during treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
The safety and effectiveness of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP in previously untreated or non - refractory patients with CLL have not been established .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • The recommended adult dose is 25 mg / m2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Reduce dose in patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / l . 73m2 .
Do not use in patients with severe renal impairment ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended adult dose of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is 25 mg / m2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 - day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from Fludarabine Phosphate Injection .
These include advanced age , renal impairment , and bone marrow impairment .
Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established .
It is recommended that three additional cycles of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued .
2 . 2 Renal Impairment Adjustments to the starting dose are recommended to provide appropriate drug exposure in patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min , as estimated by the Cockroft - Gault equations .
These adjustments are based on a pharmacokinetic study in patients with renal impairment .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min .
Starting Dose Adjustment for Renal ImpairmentCreatinine Clearance Starting : Dose ≥ 80 mL / min 25 mg / m2 ( full dose ) 50 to 79 mL / min 20 mg / m2 30 to 49 mL / min 15 mg / m2 < 30 mL / min Do not administer Renally impaired patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
2 . 3 Use of Infusion Solutions Fludarabine Phosphate Injection contains no antimicrobial preservative and should be used within 8 hours of opening .
Care must be taken to assure sterility of infusion solutions .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should not be mixed with other drugs .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Fludarabine phosphate injection , USP is supplied as a 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) sterile solution .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is supplied as a 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) sterile solution .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS [ see ( BOXED WARNINGS ) ] • Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia .
Monitor blood counts before and during treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease .
Use only irradiated blood products for transfusions .
( 5 . 4 ) • Infections .
Monitor for infection .
( 5 . 2 ) • Renal Insufficiency .
Reduce dose for moderate renal impairment and monitor closely .
Do not administer to patients with severe renal impairment .
( 5 . 9 ) • Tumor lysis syndrome ( TLS ) .
Take precautions for patients at high risk for TLS .
( 5 . 8 ) • Can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Dose Dependent Neurologic Toxicities There are clear dose dependent toxic effects seen with fludarabine phosphate .
Dose levels approximately 4 times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than that recommended for CLL ( 25 mg / m2 / day for 5 days ) were associated with a syndrome characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
Symptoms appeared from 21 to 60 days following the last dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 % ) who received fludarabine phosphate at high doses ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) developed this severe neurotoxicity .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
In postmarketing experience neurotoxicity has been reported to occur either earlier or later than in clinical trials ( range 7 to 225 days ) .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine phosphate on the central nervous system is unknown ; however , patients have received the recommended dose for up to 15 courses of therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate may reduce the ability to drive or use mechanical equipment , since fatigue , weakness , visual disturbances , confusion , agitation and seizures have been observed .
5 . 2 Bone Marrow Suppression Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
In a Phase I study in adult solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 to 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 to 32 days ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy - induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in adult patients .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
5 . 3 Autoimmune Reactions Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia or a positive Coombs ' test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
The mechanism ( s ) which predispose patients to the development of this complication has not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
Discontinuation of therapy with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection is recommended in case of hemolysis .
5 . 4 Transfusion Associated Graft - Versus - Host Disease Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease has been observed after transfusion of non - irradiated blood in fludarabine phosphate treated patients .
Fatal outcome as a consequence of this disease has been reported .
Therefore , to minimize the risk of transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease , patients who require blood transfusion and who are undergoing , or who have received , treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should receive irradiated blood only .
5 . 5 Pulmonary Toxicity In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) in adults , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
5 . 6 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate injection in pregnant women , Fludarabine phosphate was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Male Fertility and Reproductive Outcomes Males with female sexual partners of childbearing potential should use contraception during and after cessation of fludarabine phosphate therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate may damage testicular tissue and spermatozoa .
Possible sperm DNA damage raises concerns about loss of fertility and genetic abnormalities in fetuses .
The duration of this effect is uncertain [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Tumor Lysis Tumor lysis syndrome has been associated with fludarabine phosphate treatment .
This syndrome has been reported in CLL patients with large tumor burdens .
Since fludarabine phosphate can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
5 . 9 Renal Impairment Fludarabine Phosphate Injection must be administered cautiously in patients with renal impairment .
The total body clearance of 2 - fluoro - ara - A has been shown to be directly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine phosphate dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Fludarabine phosphate should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
In patients aged 65 years or older , creatinine clearance should be measured before start of treatment .
5 . 10 Vaccination During and after treatment with Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Very common adverse reactions include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever and chills , fatigue , weakness , infection , pneumonia , cough , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
Other commonly reported events include malaise , mucositis , and anorexia .
Serious opportunistic infections have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions and those reactions which are more clearly related to the drug are arranged below according to body system .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than 30 % ) include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever , infection , nausea and vomiting , fatigue , anorexia , cough and weakness ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Hematopoietic Systems Hematologic events ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and / or anemia ) were reported in the majority of CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
During fludarabine phosphate treatment of 133 patients with CLL , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm3 in 59 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 60 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 55 % .
Myelosuppression may be severe , cumulative , and may affect multiple cell lines .
Bone marrow fibrosis occurred in one CLL patient treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in post - marketing surveillance .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemias , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur in patients receiving fludarabine phosphate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
In post - marketing experience , cases of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia , mainly associated with prior , concomitant or subsequent treatment with alkylating agents , topoisomerase inhibitors , or irradiation have been reported .
6 . 2 Infections Serious and sometimes fatal infections , including opportunistic infections and reactivations of latent viral infections such as VZV ( herpes zoster ) , Epstein - Barr virus and JC virus ( progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ) have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Rare cases of Epstein - Barr ( EBV ) associated lymphoproliferative disorders have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
In post - marketing experience , cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have been reported .
Most cases had a fatal outcome .
Many of these cases were confounded by prior and / or concurrent chemotherapy .
The time to onset ranged from a few weeks to approximately one year after initiating treatment .
Of the 133 adult CLL patients in the two trials , there were 29 fatalities during study , approximately 50 % of which were due to infection .
6 . 3 Metabolic Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
This complication may include hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , hyperkalemia , hematuria , urate crystalluria , and renal failure .
The onset of this syndrome may be heralded by flank pain and hematuria .
6 . 4 Nervous System Objective weakness , agitation , confusion , seizures , visual disturbances , optic neuritis , optic neuropathy , blindness and coma have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate at the recommended dose .
Peripheral neuropathy has been observed in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate and one case of wrist - drop was reported .
There have been additional reports of cerebral hemorrhage though the frequency is not known [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
6 . 5 Pulmonary System Pneumonia , a frequent manifestation of infection in CLL patients , occurred in 16 % , and 22 % of those treated with fludarabine phosphate in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions to fludarabine phosphate characterized by dyspnea , cough and interstitial pulmonary infiltrate have been observed .
In post - marketing experience , cases of severe pulmonary toxicity have been observed with fludarabine phosphate use which resulted in ARDS , respiratory distress , pulmonary hemorrhage , pulmonary fibrosis , pneumonitis and respiratory failure .
After an infectious origin has been excluded , some patients experienced symptom improvement with corticosteroids .
6 . 6 Gastrointestinal System Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea , vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , stomatitis , and hemorrhage have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Elevations of pancreatic enzyme levels have also been reported .
6 . 7 Cardiovascular Edema has been frequently reported .
One patient developed a pericardial effusion possibly related to treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
There have been reports of heart failure and arrhythmia .
No other severe cardiovascular events were considered to be drug related .
6 . 8 Genitourinary System Hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
6 . 9 Skin Skin toxicity , consisting primarily of skin rashes , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Erythema multiforme , Steven - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis and pemphigus have been reported , with fatal outcomes in some cases .
6 . 10 Neoplasms Worsening or flare - up of pre - existing skin cancer lesions , as well as new onset of skin cancer , has been reported in patients during or after treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
6 . 11 Hepatobiliary Disorders Elevations of hepatic enzyme levels have been reported .
6 . 12 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Data in Table 1 are derived from the 133 patients with CLL who received fludarabine phosphate in the MDAH and SWOG studies .
Table 1 : PERCENT OF CLL PATIENTS REPORTING NON - HEMATOLOGIC ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS MDAH SWOG ( N = 101 ) ( N = 32 ) ANY ADVERSE REACTION 88 % 91 % BODY AS A WHOLE 72 84 FEVER 60 69 CHILLS 11 19 FATIGUE 10 38 INFECTION 33 44 PAIN 20 22 MALAISE 8 6 DIAPHORESIS 1 13 ALOPECIA 0 3 ANAPHYLAXIS 1 0 HEMORRHAGE 1 0 HYPERGLYCEMIA 1 6 DEHYDRATION 1 0 NEUROLOGICAL 21 69 WEAKNESS 9 65 PARESTHESIA 4 12 HEADACHE 3 0 VISUAL DISTURBANCE 3 15 HEARING LOSS 2 6 SLEEP DISORDER 1 3 DEPRESSION 1 0 CEREBELLAR SYNDROME 1 0 IMPAIRED MENTATION 1 0 PULMONARY 35 69 COUGH 10 44 PNEUMONIA 16 22 DYSPNEA 9 22 SINUSITIS 5 0 PHARYNGITIS 0 9 UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 2 16 ALLERGIC PNEUMONITIS 0 6 EPISTAXIS 1 0 HEMOPTYSIS 1 6 BRONCHITIS 1 0 HYPOXIA 1 0 GASTROINTESTINAL 46 63 NAUSEA / VOMITING 36 31 DIARRHEA 15 13 ANOREXIA 7 34 STOMATITIS 9 0 GI BLEEDING 3 13 ESOPHAGITIS 3 0 MUCOSITIS 2 0 LIVER FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL LIVER FUNCTION TEST 1 3 CHOLELITHIASIS 0 3 CONSTIPATION 1 3 DYSPHAGIA 1 0 CUTANEOUS 17 18 RASH 15 15 PRURITUS 1 3 SEBORRHEA 1 0 GENITOURINARY 12 22 DYSURIA 4 3 URINARY INFECTION 2 15 HEMATURIA 2 3 RENAL FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL RENAL FUNCTION TEST 1 0 PROTEINURIA 1 0 HESITANCY 0 3 CARDIOVASCULAR 12 38 EDEMA 8 19 ANGINA 0 6 CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE 0 3 ARRHYTHMIA 0 3 SUPRA VENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA 0 3 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 0 3 DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS 1 3 PHLEBITIS 1 3 TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK 1 0 ANEURYSM 1 0 CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT 0 3 MUSCULOSKELETAL 7 16 MYALGIA 4 16 OSTEOPOROSIS 2 0 ARTHRALGIA 1 0 TUMOR LYSIS SYNDROME 1 0 More than 3000 adult patients received fludarabine phosphate in studies of other leukemias , lymphomas , and other solid tumors .
The spectrum of adverse effects reported in these studies was consistent with the data presented above .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of severe pulmonary toxicity ( 5 . 5 and 7 . 1 ) .
7 . 1 Pentostatin The use of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of fatal pulmonary toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal Impairment : Fludarabine Phosphate Injection should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
For patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , reduce the dose ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 9 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D . [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate injection in pregnant women , In rats , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 2 . 4 times and 7 . 2 times the recommended human intravenous dose ( 25 mg / m2 ) administered during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformations ( cleft palate , exencephaly , and fetal vertebrae deformities ) and decreased fetal body weights .
Maternal toxicity was not apparent at 2 . 4 times the human intravenous dose , and was limited to slight body weight decreases at 7 . 2 times the human intravenous dose .
In rabbits , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 3 . 8 times the human intravenous dose administered during organogenesis increased embryo and fetal lethality as indicated by increased resorptions and a decrease in live fetuses .
A significant increase in malformations including cleft palate , hydrocephaly , adactyly , brachydactyly , fusions of the digits , diaphragmatic hernia , heart / great vessel defects , and vertebrae / rib anomalies were seen in all dose levels ( greater than or equal to 0 . 5 times the human intravenous dose ) .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether fludarabine phosphate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions including tumorigenicity in nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug for the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Data submitted to the FDA was insufficient to establish efficacy in any childhood malignancy .
Fludarabine phosphate was evaluated in 62 pediatric patients ( median age 10 , range 1 to 21 ) with refractory acute leukemia ( 45 patients ) or solid tumors ( 17 patients ) .
Limited pharmacokinetic data for fludarabine phosphate are available in children ( ages 1 to 21 years ) .
When fludarabine phosphate was administered as a loading dose over 10 minutes immediately followed by a 5 - day continuous infusion , steady - state conditions were reached early .
The fludarabine phosphate regimen tested for pediatric lymphocytic leukemia ( ALL ) patients was a loading bolus of 10 . 5 mg / m2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 30 . 5 mg / m2 / day for 5 days .
In 12 pediatric patients with solid tumors , dose - limiting myelosuppression was observed with a loading dose of 8 mg / m2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 23 . 5 mg / m2 / day for 5 days .
The maximum tolerated dose was a loading dose of 7 mg / m2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 20 mg / m2 / day for 5 days .
Treatment toxicity included bone marrow suppression .
Platelet counts appeared to be more sensitive to the effects of fludarabine phosphate than hemoglobin and white blood cell counts .
Other adverse events included fever , chills , asthenia , rash , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and infection .
There were no reported occurrences of peripheral neuropathy or pulmonary hypersensitivity reaction .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment The total body clearance of the principal metabolite 2 - fluoro - ara - A correlated with the creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the drug .
Renal clearance represents approximately 40 % of the total body clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine phosphate dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Due to insufficient data , fludarabine phosphate should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE High doses of fludarabine phosphate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] have been associated with an irreversible central nervous system toxicity characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
High doses are also associated with severe thrombocytopenia and neutropenia due to bone marrow suppression .
There is no known specific antidote for fludarabine phosphate overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP contains fludarabine phosphate , USP , a nucleotide metabolic inhibitor .
Fludarabine phosphate , USP is a fluorinated nucleotide analog of the antiviral agent vidarabine , 9 - ß - D - arabinofuranosyladenine ( ara - A ) , that is relatively resistant to deamination by adenosine deaminase .
The chemical name for fludarabine phosphate , USP is 9 H - Purin - 6 - amine , 2 - fluoro - 9 - ( 5 - 0 - phosphono - ß - D - arabinofuranosyl ) ( 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP ) .
The molecular formula of fludarabine phosphate is C10H13FN5O7P ( MW 365 . 2 ) and the structure is provided in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains 25 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate , USP , 1 . 78 mg disodium phosphate dihydrate , water for injection and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 7 . 5 .
The pH range for the final product is 7 . 3 to 7 . 7 .
Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is a sterile solution intended for intravenous administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fludarabine phosphate is rapidly dephosphorylated to 2 - fluoro - ara - A and then phosphorylated intracellularly by deoxycytidine kinase to the active triphosphate , 2 - fluoro - ara - ATP .
This metabolite appears to act by inhibiting DNA polymerase alpha , ribonucleotide reductase and DNA primase , thus inhibiting DNA synthesis .
The mechanism of action of this antimetabolite is not completely characterized and may be multi - faceted .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Phase I studies in humans have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is rapidly converted to the active metabolite , 2 - fluoro - ara - A , within minutes after intravenous infusion .
Consequently , clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2 - fluoro - ara - A pharmacokinetics .
After the five daily doses of 25 mg 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP / m2 to cancer patients infused over 30 minutes , 2 - fluoro - ara - A concentrations show a moderate accumulation .
During a 5 - day treatment schedule , 2 - fluoroara - A plasma trough levels increased by a factor of about 2 .
The terminal half - life of 2 - fluoro - ara - A was estimated as approximately 20 hours .
In vitro , plasma protein binding of fludarabine ranged between 19 % and 29 % .
A correlation was noted between the degree of absolute granulocyte count nadir and increased area under the concentration x time curve ( AUC ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal carcinogenicity studies with fludarabine have been conducted .
Fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vitro to Chinese hamster ovary cells ( chromosome aberrations in the presence of metabolic activation ) and induced sister chromatid exchanges both with and without metabolic activation .
In addition , fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vivo ( mouse micronucleus assay ) but was not mutagenic to germ cells ( dominant lethal test in male mice ) .
Fludarabine phosphate was not mutagenic to bacteria ( Ames test ) or mammalian cells ( HGRPT assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells ) either in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Studies in mice , rats and dogs have demonstrated dose - related adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Observations consisted of a decrease in mean testicular weights in mice and rats with a trend toward decreased testicular weights in dogs and degeneration and necrosis of spermatogenic epithelium of the testes in mice , rats and dogs .
The possible adverse effects on fertility in humans have not been adequately evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adults Two single - arm open - label studies of fludarabine phosphate have been conducted in adult patients with CLL refractory to at least one prior standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
In a study conducted by M . D . Anderson Cancer Center ( MDAH ) , 48 patients were treated with a dose of 22 to 40 mg / m2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
Another study conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group ( SWOG ) involved 31 patients treated with a dose of 15 to 25 mg / m2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The overall objective response rates were 48 % and 32 % in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
The complete response rate in both studies was 13 % ; the partial response rate was 35 % in the MDAH study and 19 % in the SWOG study .
These response rates were obtained using standardized response criteria developed by the National Cancer Institute CLL Working Group and were achieved in heavily pretreated patients .
The ability of fludarabine phosphate to induce a significant rate of response in refractory patients suggests minimal cross - resistance with commonly used anti - CLL agents .
The median time to response in the MDAH and SWOG studies was 7 weeks ( range of 1 to 68 weeks ) and 21 weeks ( range of 1 to 53 weeks ) , respectively .
The median duration of disease control was 91 weeks ( MDAH ) and 65 weeks ( SWOG ) .
The median survival of all refractory CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate was 43 weeks and 52 weeks in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Rai stage improved to Stage II or better in 7 of 12 MDAH responders ( 58 % ) and in 5 of 7 SWOG responders ( 71 % ) who were Stage III or IV at baseline .
In the combined studies , mean hemoglobin concentration improved from 9 . 0 g / dL at baseline to 11 . 8 g / dL at the time of response in a subgroup of anemic patients .
Similarly , average platelet count improved from 63 , 500 / mm3 to 103 , 300 / mm3 at the time of response in a subgroup of patients who were thrombocytopenic at baseline .
15 REFERENCES • Preventing Occupational Exposures to Antineoplastic and Other Hazardous Drugs in Health Care Settings .
NIOSH Alert 2004 - 165 .
• OSHA Technical Manual , TED 1 - 0 .
l5A , Section VI : Chapter 2 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA , 1999 .
http : / / www . osha . gov / dts / osta / otm / otm _ vi / otim _ vi _ 2 . html • American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2006 ; 63 : 1172 - 1193 .
• Polovich , M . , White , J . M . , & Kelleher , L . O . ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice ( 2 nd .
ed . )
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP is supplied as a clear , colorless or almost colorless sterile solution containing 25 mg / mL of fludarabine phosphate , USP in a single use vial .
NDC 45963 - 621 - 51 one carton containing a 50 mg / 2 mL glass vial of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP .
16 . 2 Storage Store under refrigeration , between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
16 . 3 Handling and Disposal Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be considered .
Consideration should be given to handling and disposal according to guidelines issued for cytotoxic drugs .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published .
1 - 4 Caution should be exercised in the handling and preparation of Fludarabine Phosphate Injection solution .
The use of latex gloves and safety glasses is recommended to avoid exposure in case of breakage of the vial or other accidental spillage .
If the solution contacts the skin or mucous membranes , wash thoroughly with soap and water ; rinse eyes thoroughly with plain water .
Avoid exposure by inhalation or by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Monitoring Patients should be informed of the importance of periodic assessment of their blood count to detect the development of anemia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
17 . 2 Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ' s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils , red blood cells , and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Pregnancy Fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Made in Italy Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised – October 2015 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis 50 mg / 2 mL Rx Only NDC 45963 - 621 - 51 Fludarabine Phosphate Injection , USP 50 mg / 2 mL 25 mg / mL For Intravenous Use Only Caution : Cytotoxic Agent 2 mL Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
