Glycerin 20 % Skin Protectant Protect the skin and hide wrinkle This concentrated vitamin C serum dramatically brightens uneven skin while improving the appearance of wrinkles and fine lines .
Reveals a more radiant complexion .
Vitamin C visibly brightens skin .
Feather - light , liquid formula absorbs quickly .
This formula improves signs of aging and reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles while firming and brightening your complexion .
Contains the active ingredient to effectively inhibit acetylcholine receptors , and improve skin condition .
Stable Vitamin C & Peptides To brighten skin and reduce wrinkles With Hydrating Hyaluronic Acid Treats & Helps wrinkles and signs of aging Brightens & Smooths Skin Protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Apply small amount and softly tap for absorption Once you apply the serum , then wait for 90 seconds for your face to absorb and then put on Sunscreen .
Shake before use for 3 seconds .
Do a patch test to check for an allergic reaction .
Rub 1 drop of the vitamin C serum onto a small patch of your inner wrist .
Wait 24 hours to see if your skin is irritated or breaks out in a rash .
If it does n't , you can use vitamin C on your face .
A clean face is a perfect base to apply this product .
With clean fingers apply the serum onto your face .
Once you apply the serum , then wait for 90 seconds for your face to absorb and then put on Sunscreen .
Children under 6 months : ask a doctor For external use only Do not get into eyes Condition worsen Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Deep or puncture wounds Serious burns Animal Bites Deionized Water , Disodium EDTA , Guar Gum , Ascorbyl Glucoside , Vitamin E , Polysorbate 20 , DL Panthenol , L - Valine , Propylene Glycol , Niacinamide , Hexelyne Glycol , L - Lysine , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , L - Leucine , Hyaluronic Acid , L - Isoleucine , L - Threonine , L - Phenylalanine , L - Histidine , L - Methionine , L - Tryptophan , Lavender Essential Oil , Sodium Hydroxide , Dehydroacetic Acid , Benzyl Alcohol , Ethylhexylglycerin , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Arginine / Lysine Polypeptide .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 855 - 349 - 7735 or visit www . drjoelab . com to report serious adverse events associated with use of the product .
Keep out of reach of children [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
