DESCRIPTION Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP is a solution of acetic acid ( 2 % ) , in a propylene glycol vehicle containing propylene glycol diacetate ( 3 % ) , benzethonium chloride ( 0 . 02 % ) , and sodium acetate ( 0 . 015 % ) .
The empirical formula for acetic acid is CH3COOH , with a molecular weight of 60 . 05 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetic Acid is available as a nonaqueous otic solution buffered at pH 3 for use in the external ear canal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acetic acid is antibacterial and antifungal ; propylene glycol is hydrophilic and provides a low surface tension ; benzethonium chloride is a surface active agent that promotes contact of the solution with tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of superficial infections of the external auditory canal caused by organisms susceptible to the action of the antimicrobial .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Acetic Acid or any of the ingredients .
Perforated tympanic membrane is considered a contraindication to the use of any medication in the external ear canal .
WARNINGS Discontinue promptly if sensitization or irritation occurs .
PRECAUTIONS Transient stinging or burning may be noted occasionally when the solution is first instilled into the acutely inflamed ear .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Stinging or burning may be noted occasionally ; local irritation has occurred very rarely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully remove all cerumen and debris to allow Acetic Acid to contact infected surfaces directly .
To promote continuous contact , insert a wick of cotton saturated with Acetic Acid into the ear canal ; the wick may also be saturated after insertion .
Instruct the patient to keep the wick in for at least 24 hours and to keep it moist by adding 3 to 5 drops of Acetic Acid every 4 to 6 hours .
The wick may be removed after 24 hours but the patient should continue to instill 5 drops of Acetic Acid 3 or 4 times daily thereafter , for as long as indicated .
In pediatric patients , 3 to 4 drops may be sufficient due to the smaller capacity of the ear canal .
HOW SUPPLIED Acetic Acid Otic Solution , USP containing 2 % acetic acid , is available in 15 mL ( NDC 55045 - 1243 - 00 ) measured - drop , safety - tip plastic bottles .
STORAGE Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 MG # 28428 Rev . 889 : 02 11 / 09 Package Label Principal Display NDC 55045 - 1243 - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
