Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Ranitidine 150 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride 168 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • Blister : do not use if individual unit is open or torn Bottle : do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sugar free Inactive Ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , diethyl phthalate , FD and C yellow # 6 aluminum lake , hypromellose , iron oxide red , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and titanium dioxide .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 346 - 6854 Read the directions , consumer information leaflet and warnings before use .
Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited , Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Rev . 151111 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
