Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( Heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquie with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredients None Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
Adding Epsom Salt to your bath will help relieve the aches and pains of minor sprains and bruises .
Let Epsom Salt do the work while your relax in the bathtub .
Directions : Pour 2 cups of Epsom Salt in 1 quart of warm water .
Using a towel , apply solution to the affected area for 15 - 30 minut3es to help relieve the aches and pains of minor spains and bruises .
Repeat as needed .
As a warm compress : Dissolve 1 / 2 cup or Epsom salt in 1 quart of warm water .
Using a towel , apply solution to the affected area for 15 - 30 minutes to help relieve the aches and pains of minor sprans and bruises .
Repeat as needed .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
EPSOM SALT MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . MgSO4 - 7H2O " SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK . "
Manufactured For Your Military Exchanges By : Vi - Jon 8515 Page Avenue , St . Louis , MO 63114 principal display panel Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
exchange select EPSOM SALT MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . MgSO4 - 7H2O Saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation Soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Resealable Pouch quality value NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
