RX Only DESCRIPTION Sucralfate Suspension contains sucralfate and sucralfate is an α - D - glucopyranoside β - D - fructo - furanosyl - , octakis - ( hydrogen sulfate ) , aluminum complex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sucralfate Suspension for oral administration contains 1 g of sucralfate per 10 mL .
Sucralfate Suspension also contains : colloidal silicon dioxide NF , FD & C Red # 40 , flavor , glycerin USP , methyl - cellulose USP , methylparaben NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , purified water USP , simethicone USP , and sorbitol solution USP .
Therapeutic category : antiulcer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The small amounts of the sulfated disaccharide that are absorbed are excreted primarily in the urine .
Although the mechanism of sucralfate ' s ability to accelerate healing of duodenal ulcers remains to be fully defined , it is known that it exerts its effect through a local , rather than systemic , action .
The following observations also appear pertinent : • Studies in human subjects and with animal models of ulcer disease have shown that sucralfate forms an ulcer - adherent complex with proteinaceous exudate at the ulcer site .
• In vitro , a sucralfate - albumin film provides a barrier to diffusion of hydrogen ions .
• In human subjects sucralfate given in doses recommended for ulcer therapy inhibits pepsin activity in gastric juice by 32 % .
• In vitro , sucralfate absorbs bile salts .
These observations suggest that sucralfate ' s antiulcer activity is the result of formation of an ulcer - adherent complex that covers the ulcer site and protects it against further attack by acid , pepsin , and bile salts .
There are approximately 14 to 16 mEq of acid - neutralizing capacity per 1 - g dose of sucralfate .
CLINICAL TRIALS In a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of Sucralfate Suspension , a dosage regimen of 1 g ( 10 mL ) four times daily was demonstrated to be superior to placebo in ulcer healing .
Results From Clinical Trials Healing Rates for Acute Duodenal UlcerTreatment n Week 2 Healing Rates Week 4 Healing Rates Week 8 Healing Rates Sucralfate Suspension 145 23 ( 16 % ) [ 1 ] 66 ( 46 % ) [ 2 ] 95 ( 66 % ) [ 3 ] Placebo 147 10 ( 7 % ) 39 ( 27 % ) 58 ( 39 % ) [ 1 ] P = 0 . 016 [ 2 ] P = 0 . 001 [ 3 ] P = 0 . 0001 Equivalence of sucralfate suspension to sucralfate tablets has not been demonstrated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate Suspension is indicated in the short - term ( up to 8 weeks ) treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known contraindications to the use of sucralfate .
PRECAUTIONS Duodenal ulcer is a chronic , recurrent disease .
While short - term treatment with sucralfate can result in complete healing of the ulcer a successful course of treatment with sucralfate should not be expected to alter the posthealing frequency or severity of duodenal ulceration .
Special Populations Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients When sucralfate is administered orally , small amounts of aluminum are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Concomitant use of sucralfate with other products that contain aluminum , such as aluminum - containing antacids , may increase the total body burden of aluminum .
Patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended doses of sucralfate and aluminum - containing products adequately excrete aluminum in the urine .
Patients with chronic renal failure or those receiv - ing dialysis have impaired excretion of absorbed aluminum .
In addition , aluminum does not cross dialysis membranes because it is bound to albumin and transferrin plasma proteins .
Aluminum accumulation and toxicity ( aluminum osteodystrophy , osteomalacia , encephalopathy ) have been described in patients with renal impairment .
Sucralfate should be used with caution in patients with chronic renal failure .
Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption ( bioavailability ) of single doses of the following : cimetidine , digoxin , fluoroquinolone antibiotics , ketoconazole , I - thyroxine , phenytoin , quinidine , ranitidine , tetracycline , and theophylline .
Subtherapeutic prothrombin times with concomitant warfarin and sucralfate therapy have been reported in spontaneous and published case reports .
However , two clinical studies have demon - strated no change in either serum warfarin concentration or prothrombin time with the addition of sucralfate to chronic warfarin therapy .
The mechanism of these interactions appears to be nonsystemic in nature , presumably resulting from sucralfate binding to the concomitant agent in the gastrointestinal tract .
In all cases studied to date ( cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , norfloxacin , ofloxacin , and ranitidine ) , dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction .
Because of the potential of sucralfate to alter the absorption of some drugs , sucralfate should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical .
In these cases , patients should be monitored appropriately .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic oral toxicity studies of 24 months ' duration were conducted in mice and rats at doses up to 1 g / kg ( 12 times the human dose ) .
There was no evidence of drug - related tumorigenicity .
A reproduction study in rats at doses up to 38 times the human dose did not reveal any indication of fertility impairment .
Mutagenicity studies were not conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category B Teratogenicity studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 50 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to sucralfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sucralfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Sucralfate Suspension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
( See PRECAUTIONS Special Populations : Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients ) Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to sucralfate tablets in clinical trials were minor and only rarely led to discontinuation of the drug .
In studies involving over 2700 patients treated with sucralfate , adverse effects were reported in 129 ( 4 . 7 % ) .
Constipation was the most frequent complaint ( 2 % ) .
Other adverse effects reported in less than 0 . 5 % of the patients are listed below by body system : Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , dry mouth , flatulence , gastric discomfort , indigestion , nausea , vomiting .
Dermatological : pruritus , rash Nervous System : dizziness , insomnia , sleepiness , vertigo Other : back pain , headache Postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria ( hives ) , angioedema , respiratory difficulty , rhinitis , laryngospasm , and facial swelling have been reported in patients receiving sucralfate tablets .
Similar events were reported with sucralfate suspension .
However , a causal relationship has not been established .
Bezoars have been reported in patients treated with sucralfate .
The majority of patients had underlying medical conditions that may predispose to bezoar formation ( such as delayed gastric emptying ) or were receiving concomitant enteral tube feedings .
Inadvertent injection of insoluble sucralfate and its insoluble excipients has led to fatal complications , including pulmonary and cerebral emboli .
Sucralfate is not intended for intravenous administration .
OVERDOSAGE Due to limited experience in humans with overdosage of sucralfate , no specific treatment recommen - dations can be given .
Acute oral studies in animals , however , using doses up to 12 g / kg body weight , could not find a lethal dose .
Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Risks associated with acute overdosage should , therefore , be minimal .
In rare reports describing sucralfate overdose , most patients remained asymptomatic .
Those few reports where adverse events were described included symptoms of dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 g ( 10 mL / 2 teaspoonfuls ) four times per day .
Sucralfate should be administered on an empty stomach .
Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one - half hour before or after sucralfate .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
Elderly In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( See PRECAUTIONS Geriatric Use ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Sucralfate Suspension 1 g / 10 mL is a pink suspension .
NDC 54868 - 5299 - 1 Ten ( 10 ) 10 mL oral liquid unit dose cups per tray .
Ten ( 10 ) trays per shipper .
NDC 54868 - 5299 - 0 Ten ( 10 ) 10 mL oral liquid unit dose cups per tray .
Three ( 3 ) trays per shipper .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] ) .
Avoid freezing .
Distributed by : Axcan Scandipharm Inc .
Birmingham , AL 35242 USA Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 LI 770 Rev . 11 / 07 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Cup Label NDC 54868 - 5299 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] SUCRALFATE Suspension 1 g / 10 mL Delivers 10 mL Shake Well Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
