Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc Oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as diected with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use as sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , espcially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , cylopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium Herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , fragrance , tocopheryl acetate , disodium EDTA , steareth - 2 , oleth - 3 phosphate , ascorbic acid , panthenol disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay All Day Moisturizer with sunscreen .
Adverse reactions This product is not manufacture or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay All Day Moisturizer with sunscreen adverse reaction Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , LLC St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Olay wo n't clog Pores UVA / UVB protection vitamin E & C enriched SPF 15 moisturizing beuty lotion broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
