SPL UNCLASSIFIED Fliptop Vial Rx only MUST BE DILUTED PRIOR TO ADMINISTRATION DESCRIPTION Dobutamine Injection , USP is a clear , practically colorless , sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of dobutamine hydrochloride for intravenous use only .
Each milliliter contains 12 . 5 mg ( 41 . 5 µmol ) dobutamine , as the hydrochloride and sodium metabisulfite , 0 . 2 mg added as antioxidant .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
pH is 3 . 3 ( 2 . 5 to 5 . 5 ) .
Dobutamine Hydrochloride , USP is chemically designated ( ± ) - 4 - [ 2 - [ [ 3 - ( ρ - hydroxyphenyl ) - 1 - methylpropyl ] amino ] ethyl ] - pyrocatechol hydrochloride .
It is a synthetic catecholamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight : 337 . 85 Molecular Formula : C18H23NO3 • HCl [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dobutamine hydrochloride is a direct - acting inotropic agent whose primary activity results from stimulation of the β receptors of the heart while producing comparatively mild chronotropic , hypertensive , arrhythmogenic , and vasodilative effects .
It does not cause the release of endogenous norepinephrine , as does dopamine .
In animal studies , dobutamine hydrochloride produces less increase in heart rate and less decrease in peripheral vascular resistance for a given inotropic effect than does isoproterenol .
In patients with depressed cardiac function , both dobutamine hydrochloride and isoproterenol increase the cardiac output to a similar degree .
In the case of dobutamine hydrochloride , this increase is usually not accompanied by marked increases in heart rate ( although tachycardia is occasionally observed ) , and the cardiac stroke volume is usually increased .
In contrast , isoproterenol increases the cardiac index primarily by increasing the heart rate while stroke volume changes little or declines .
Facilitation of atrioventricular conduction has been observed in human electrophysiologic studies and in patients with atrial fibrillation .
Systemic vascular resistance is usually decreased with administration of dobutamine hydrochloride .
Occasionally , minimum vasoconstriction has been observed .
Most clinical experience with dobutamine hydrochloride is short - term − not more than several hours in duration .
In the limited number of patients who were studied for 24 , 48 , and 72 hours , a persistent increase in cardiac output occurred in some , whereas output returned toward baseline values in others .
The onset of action of dobutamine is within 1 to 2 minutes ; however , as much as 10 minutes may be required to obtain the peak effect of a particular infusion rate .
The plasma half - life of dobutamine hydrochloride in humans is 2 minutes .
The principal routes of metabolism are methylation of the catechol and conjugation .
In human urine , the major excretion products are the conjugates of dobutamine and 3 - O - methyl dobutamine .
The 3 - O - methyl derivative of dobutamine is inactive .
Alteration of synaptic concentrations of catecholamines with either reserpine or tricyclic antidepressants does not alter the actions of dobutamine in animals , which indicates that the actions of dobutamine hydrochloride are not dependent on presynaptic mechanisms .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Dobutamine Injection , USP is indicated when parenteral therapy is necessary for inotropic support in the short - term treatment of adults with cardiac decompensation due to depressed contractility resulting either from organic heart disease or from cardiac surgical procedures .
In patients who have atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response , a digitalis preparation should be used prior to institution of therapy with dobutamine hydrochloride .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dobutamine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis and in patients who have shown previous manifestations of hypersensitivity to Dobutamine Injection , USP solution .
WARNINGS Increase in Heart Rate or Blood Pressure Dobutamine hydrochloride may cause a marked increase in heart rate or blood pressure , especially systolic pressure .
Approximately 10 % of patients in clinical studies have had rate increases of 30 beats / minute or more , and about 7 . 5 % have had a 50 mm Hg or greater increase in systolic pressure .
Usually , reduction of dosage promptly reverses these effects .
Because dobutamine hydrochloride facilitates atrioventricular conduction , patients with atrial fibrillation are at risk of developing rapid ventricular response .
Patients with pre - existing hypertension appear to face an increased risk of developing an exaggerated pressor response .
Ectopic Activity Dobutamine hydrochloride may precipitate or exacerbate ventricular ectopic activity , but it rarely has caused ventricular tachycardia .
Hypersensitivity Reactions suggestive of hypersensitivity associated with administration of Dobutamine Injection , USP , including skin rash , fever , eosinophilia , and bronchospasm , have been reported occasionally .
Dobutamine Injection , USP contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes , in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General During the administration of Dobutamine Injection , USP , as with any adrenergic agent , ECG and blood pressure should be continuously monitored .
In addition , pulmonary wedge pressure and cardiac output should be monitored whenever possible to aid in the safe and effective infusion of dobutamine hydrochloride .
Hypovolemia should be corrected with suitable volume expanders before treatment with dobutamine hydrochloride is instituted .
No improvement may be observed in the presence of marked mechanical obstruction , such as severe valvular aortic stenosis .
Usage Following Acute Myocardial Infarction − Clinical experience with dobutamine hydrochloride following myocardial infarction has been insufficient to establish the safety of the drug for this use .
There is concern that any agent that increases contractile force and heart rate may increase the size of an infarction by intensifying ischemia , but it is not known whether dobutamine hydrochloride does so .
Laboratory Tests − Dobutamine , like other β2 - agonists , can produce a mild reduction in serum potassium concentration , rarely to hypokalemic levels .
Accordingly , consideration should be given to monitoring serum potassium .
Drug Interactions − Animal studies indicate that dobutamine may be ineffective if the patient has recently received a β - blocking drug .
In such a case , the peripheral vascular resistance may increase .
Preliminary studies indicate that the concomitant use of dobutamine and nitroprusside results in a higher cardiac output and , usually , a lower pulmonary wedge pressure than when either drug is used alone .
There was no evidence of drug interactions in clinical studies in which dobutamine was administered concurrently with other drugs , including digitalis preparations , furosemide , spironolactone , lidocaine , nitroglycerin , isosorbide dinitrate , morphine , atropine , heparin , protamine , potassium chloride , folic acid , and acetaminophen .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility − Studies to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of dobutamine hydrochloride , or its potential to affect fertility , have not been conducted .
Pregnancy – Teratogenic Effects − Reproduction studies performed in rats at doses up to the normal human dose ( 10 mcg / kg / min for 24 h , total daily dose of 14 . 4 mg / kg ) , and in rabbits at doses up to twice the normal human dose , have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to dobutamine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery − The effect of dobutamine hydrochloride on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers − It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when dobutamine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
If a mother requires dobutamine hydrochloride treatment , breastfeeding should be discontinued for the duration of treatment .
Pediatric Use − The safety and effectiveness of Dobutamine Injection , USP for use in pediatric patients have not been studied .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Increased Heart Rate , Blood Pressure , and Ventricular Ectopic Activity − A 10 to 20 mm increase in systolic blood pressure and an increase in heart rate of 5 to 15 beats / minute have been noted in most patients ( see WARNINGS regarding exaggerated chronotropic and pressor effects ) .
Approximately 5 % of patients have had increased premature ventricular beats during infusions .
These effects are dose related .
Hypotension − Precipitous decreases in blood pressure have occasionally been described in association with dobutamine therapy .
Decreasing the dose or discontinuing the infusion typically results in rapid return of blood pressure to baseline values .
In rare cases , however , intervention may be required and reversibility may not be immediate .
Reactions at Sites of Intravenous Infusion − Phlebitis has occasionally been reported .
Local inflammatory changes have been described following inadvertent infiltration .
Isolated cases of cutaneous necrosis ( destruction of skin tissue ) have been reported .
Miscellaneous Uncommon Effects − The following adverse effects have been reported in 1 % to 3 % of patients : nausea , headache , anginal pain , nonspecific chest pain , palpitations , and shortness of breath .
Isolated cases of thrombocytopenia have been reported .
Administration of dobutamine hydrochloride , like other catecholamines , can produce a mild reduction in serum potassium concentration , rarely to hypokalemic levels ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Longer - Term Safety − Infusions of up to 72 hours have revealed no adverse effects other than those seen with shorter infusions .
OVERDOSAGE Overdoses of dobutamine have been reported rarely .
The following is provided to serve as a guide if such an overdose is encountered .
Signs and Symptoms − Toxicity from dobutamine is usually due to excessive cardiac β - receptor stimulation .
The duration of action of dobutamine is generally short ( T1 / 2 = 2 minutes ) because it is rapidly metabolized by catechol - O - methyltransferase .
The symptoms of toxicity may include anorexia , nausea , vomiting , tremor , anxiety , palpitations , headache , shortness of breath , and anginal and nonspecific chest pain .
The positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of dobutamine on the myocardium may cause hypertension , tachyarrhythmias , myocardial ischemia , and ventricular fibrillation .
Hypotension may result from vasodilation .
Treatment − To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
The initial actions to be taken in a dobutamine overdose are discontinuing administration , establishing an airway , and ensuring oxygenation and ventilation .
Resuscitative measures should be initiated promptly .
Severe ventricular tachyarrhythmias may be successfully treated with propranolol or lidocaine .
Hypertension usually responds to a reduction in dose or discontinuation of therapy .
Protect the patient ' s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
If needed , meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ' s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
If the product is ingested , unpredictable absorption may occur from the mouth and the gastrointestinal tract .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ' s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemo - perfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of dobutamine .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Note − Do not add Dobutamine Injection , USP to 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection or to any other strongly alkaline solution .
Because of potential physical incompatibilities , it is recommended that dobutamine hydrochloride not be mixed with other drugs in the same solution .
Dobutamine hydrochloride should not be used in conjunction with other agents or diluents containing both sodium bisulfite and ethanol .
Preparation and Stability − At the time of administration , Dobutamine Injection , USP must be further diluted in an intravenous container to at least a 50 mL solution using one of the following intravenous solutions as a diluent : 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP ; Isolyte ® M with 5 % Dextrose Injection ; Lactated Ringer ' s Injection ; 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection ; Normosol ® - M in D5 - W ; 20 % Osmitrol ® in Water for Injection ; 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ; or Sodium Lactate Injection , USP .
Intravenous solutions should be used within 24 hours .
Recommended Dosage − The rate of infusion needed to increase cardiac output usually ranged from 2 . 5 to 15 mcg / kg / min ( see Table 1 ) .
On rare occasions , infusion rates up to 40 mcg / kg / min have been required to obtain the desired effect .
Table 1 Dobutamine Infusion Rate ( mL / kg / min ) for Concentrations of 250 , 500 , and 1 , 000 mcg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rates of infusion in mL / h for Dobutamine concentrations of 500 mcg / mL , 1 , 000 mcg / mL , and 2 , 000 mcg / mL are given in Table 2 .
Table 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The rate of administration and the duration of therapy should be adjusted according to the patient ' s response as determined by heart rate , presence of ectopic activity , blood pressure , urine flow , and , whenever possible , measurement of central venous or pulmonary wedge pressure and cardiac output .
Concentrations of up to 5 , 000 mcg / mL have been administered to humans ( 250 mg / 50 mL ) .
The final volume administered should be determined by the fluid requirements of the patient .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLING DOBUTAMINE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1337 - 1 DOBUTAMINE INJECTION , USP 250 mg PER 20 mL VIAL NDC 51662 - 1337 - 2 DOBUTAMINE INJECTION , USP 250 mg PER 20 mL VIAL in a Pouch NDC 51662 - 1337 - 3 Case of 10 , DOBUTAMINE INJECTION , USP 250 mg PER 20 mL VIAL in a Pouch HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Dobutamine Injection , USP is supplied in 20 mL single - dose glass vials containing 250 mg dobutamine , as the hydrochloride as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SPL UNCLASSIFIED Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1055 - 3 . 0 11 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , VIAL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , SERIALIZED LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 51662 - 1337 - 3 CASE 51662 - 1337 - 3 CASE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] RFID LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 51662 - 1337 - 2 POUCH 51662 - 1337 - 2 POUCH LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
