1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BRYHALI ® ( halobetasol propionate ) lotion , 0 . 01 % is indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in adults .
BRYHALI lotion is a corticosteroid indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of BRYHALI Lotion to affected areas once daily .
Rub in gently .
Wash hands after each application , unless BRYHALI Lotion is for treatment of the hands .
BRYHALI Lotion treatment beyond 8 weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed approximately 50 g per week .
Discontinue treatment if control is achieved before 8 weeks .
Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
BRYHALI Lotion should not be used on the face , groin , or in the axillae .
BRYHALI Lotion is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin layer of BRYHALI Lotion to the affected areas once daily .
( 2 ) • • Treatment beyond 8 weeks is not recommended .
Discontinue treatment if control is achieved before 8 weeks .
( 2 ) • • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae .
( 2 ) • • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lotion , 0 . 01 % Each gram of BRYHALI Lotion contains 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) halobetasol propionate in a white to off - white lotion .
Lotion , 0 . 01 % ( 3 ) Each gram of BRYHALI Lotion contains 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) halobetasol propionate .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression was observed and may occur with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during or after treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Use of potent corticosteroids on large areas , for prolonged durations , under occlusive dressings , or on an altered skin barrier may increase systemic exposure .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Local adverse reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , hypopigmentation , and allergic contact dermatitis .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Use of topical corticosteroids may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression BRYHALI Lotion has been shown to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of treatment with the topical corticosteroid .
The potential for hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with BRYHALI Lotion was evaluated in a study of 19 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis involving ≥ 20 % of their body surface area ( BSA ) .
HPA axis suppression was reported for 1 ( 5 . 6 % ) subject at Week 4 and for 3 ( 15 . 8 % ) subjects at Week 8 .
All 3 subjects had normal HPA axis suppression test with discontinuation of treatment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids , including BRYHALI Lotion , may require that patients be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , occlusive use , use on an altered skin barrier , concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products , liver failure , and young age .
An adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , attempt to gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic exposure to corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from the use of topical corticosteroids due to their larger surface - to - body - mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions Local adverse reactions from topical corticosteroids may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
These may be more likely with occlusive use , prolonged use , or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including BRYHALI Lotion .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical corticosteroid products .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 4 Concomitant Skin Infections Use an appropriate antimicrobial agent if a skin infection is present or develops .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , discontinue use of BRYHALI Lotion until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 5 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Consider confirmation of a clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis by appropriate patch testing .
Discontinue BRYHALI Lotion if allergic contact dermatitis occurs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) were upper respiratory tract infection , application site dermatitis and hyperglycemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In randomized , double - blind , multicenter , vehicle - controlled clinical trials , 426 adults with plaque psoriasis were treated with BRYHALI Lotion and had post - baseline safety data .
Subjects applied BRYHALI Lotion once daily for up to 8 weeks .
Table 1 presents adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with BRYHALI Lotion and more frequently than in vehicle - treated subjects .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of the Subjects Treated with BRYHALI Lotion through Week 8 BRYHALI Lotion ( N = 284 ) Vehicle Lotion ( N = 142 ) Adverse Reaction % % Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 2 % 1 % Application Site Dermatitis 1 % 0 Hyperglycemia 1 % 0 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on BRYHALI Lotion use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , increased malformations , including cleft palate and omphalocele , were observed after oral administration of halobetasol propionate during organogenesis to pregnant rats and rabbits .
The available data do not support relevant comparisons of systemic halobetasol propionate exposures achieved in the animal studies to exposures observed in humans after topical use of BRYHALI Lotion .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Halobetasol propionate has been shown to cause malformations in rats and rabbits when given orally during organogenesis at doses of 0 . 04 to 0 . 1 mg / kg / day in rats and 0 . 01 mg / kg / day in rabbits .
Halobetasol propionate was embryotoxic in rabbits but not in rats .
Cleft palate was observed in both rats and rabbits .
Omphalocele was seen in rats but not in rabbits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of halobetasol propionate or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production after treatment with BRYHALI Lotion .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for BRYHALI Lotion and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from BRYHALI Lotion .
Clinical Considerations Advise breastfeeding women not to apply BRYHALI Lotion directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of BRYHALI Lotion in pediatric patients under the age of 18 years have not been evaluated .
Because of higher skin - surface - area - to - body - mass ratios , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse reactions including striae have been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 284 subjects exposed to BRYHALI Lotion in clinical trials , 61 subjects were 65 years or older .
Clinical trials of BRYHALI Lotion did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION BRYHALI ( halobetasol propionate ) lotion contains a corticosteroid , halobetasol propionate , as the active ingredient in a white to off - white lotion formulation intended for topical use .
Halobetasol propionate is a synthetic corticosteroid .
The chemical name for halobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 – dione , 17 - propionate .
Halobetasol propionate is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 484 . 96 and a molecular formula of C25H31ClF2O5 .
It is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in dichloromethane and in acetone .
The structural formula for halobetasol propionate is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of BRYHALI Lotion contains 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) halobetasol propionate in a white to off - white lotion base consisting of carbomer copolymer type B , carbomer homopolymer type A , diethyl sebacate , edetate disodium dihydrate , light mineral oil , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monooleate and sorbitol solution , 70 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in plaque psoriasis is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay A vasoconstrictor assay in healthy subjects with BRYHALI Lotion indicated that the formulation is in the potent to superpotent range of potency as compared to other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression The potential for HPA axis suppression was evaluated in 19 adult subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis with at least 20 % BSA involved .
An approximate dose of 7 g BRYHALI Lotion was applied once daily for 8 weeks .
An abnormal HPA axis suppression test , as indicated by a 30 - minute post - stimulation cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL , was reported for 1 ( 5 . 6 % ) subject at Week 4 and for 3 ( 15 . 8 % ) subjects at Week 8 .
The subject suppressed at Week 4 was also suppressed at Week 8 .
These effects were reversible as recovery of HPA axis function was generally prompt with the discontinuation of treatment .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
In an open - label , randomized , pharmacokinetic study , 23 subjects aged 18 years and older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis applied approximately 7 grams of BRYHALI Lotion to a mean BSA of 27 . 7 ± 11 . 3 % once daily for 28 days .
Systemic concentrations were at steady state by Day 14 .
Only 5 out of 20 subjects had one or more quantifiable systemic concentrations of halobetasol propionate on Day 14 .
The mean ± SD for maximum systemic concentration ( Cmax ) on Day 14 was 31 . 2 ± 62 . 2 pg / mL .
The mean area under the concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) could not be reliably estimated due to insufficient number of quantifiable timepoints .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of halobetasol propionate .
Halobetasol propionate was not genotoxic in the Ames assay , in the sister chromatid exchange test in Chinese hamster somatic cells , in chromosome aberration studies of germinal and somatic cells of rodents , or in a mammalian spot test .
Positive mutagenicity effects were observed in a mouse lymphoma gene mutation assay in vitro and in a Chinese hamster micronucleus test .
Studies in rats following oral administration of halobetasol propionate at dose levels up to 0 . 05 mg / kg / day indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES BRYHALI Lotion was evaluated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in two prospective , multicenter , randomized , double - blind clinical trials ( Trial 1 [ NCT02514577 ] and Trial 2 [ NCT02515097 ] ) .
These trials were conducted in 430 subjects 18 years of age and older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis that covered a body surface area ( BSA ) between 3 % and 12 % excluding the face , scalp , palms , soles , axillae , and intertriginous areas .
Disease severity was determined by a 5 - grade Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) .
Subjects applied BRYHALI Lotion or vehicle to all affected areas once daily for up to 8 weeks .
Subjects had a follow - up visit 4 weeks after the end of treatment ( Week 12 ) where safety and efficacy were evaluated .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects with treatment success at Week 8 , where treatment success was defined as at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline in IGA score and an IGA score equating to “ clear ” or “ almost clear ” .
Table 2 lists the primary efficacy results for Trials 1 and 2 .
The secondary efficacy endpoints evaluated treatment success sequentially at Weeks 12 , 6 , 4 , and 2 .
Figure 1 shows the primary and secondary efficacy results over time .
Table 2 : Primary Efficacy Results at Week 8 in Subjects with Moderate to Severe Plaque Psoriasis Trial 1 Trial 2 BRYHALI Vehicle BRYHALI Vehicle N = 143 N = 74 N = 142 N = 71 IGA Treatment Success at Week 8 [ 1 ] 37 % 8 % 38 % 12 % [ 1 ] Treatment success was defined as at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline in IGA score and an IGA score equating to “ clear ” or “ almost clear ” .
Clear = no evidence of scaling , no evidence of erythema , no evidence of plaque elevation above normal skin level .
Almost clear = some plaques with fine scales , faint pink / light red erythema on most plaques , slight or barely perceptible elevation of plaques above normal skin level .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * The treatment difference at Week 2 in Trial 2 was not statistically significant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING BRYHALI ( halobetasol propionate ) lotion , 0 . 01 % is a white to off - white lotion supplied in a white aluminum tube as follows : • • 60 g ( NDC 0187 - 0002 - 60 ) • • 100 g ( NDC 0187 - 0002 - 01 ) Storage and Handling Conditions Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all administration instructions or all possible adverse or unintended effects .
Advise patients using BRYHALI Lotion of the following information and instructions : Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to discontinue BRYHALI Lotion when psoriasis is controlled .
Inform patients that BRYHALI Lotion is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used for longer than the prescribed time period .
Total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to avoid bandaging , wrapping or otherwise occluding the treatment area ( s ) , unless directed by physician .
Advise patients to avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Inform patients that BRYHALI Lotion is for external use only .
Advise patients that BRYHALI Lotion is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Breastfeeding women should not apply BRYHALI Lotion directly to the nipple and areola to avoid directly exposing the infant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Effects on Endocrine System BRYHALI Lotion may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of topical corticosteroids , including BRYHALI Lotion , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
Concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Inform patients that BRYHALI Lotion may cause local adverse reactions .
These reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use or prolonged use of BRYHALI Lotion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc .
Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 809 , 307 and 10 , 478 , 502 BRYHALI is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9652104 TEAR HERE ( Patient Information ) Patient Package Insert PATIENT INFORMATION BRYHALI ® ( bry - HAL - ee ) ( halobetasol propionate ) Lotion Important : BRYHALI is for use on the skin only .
Do not apply BRYHALI in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is BRYHALI ?
BRYHALI is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat adults with plaque psoriasis .
It is not known if BRYHALI is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Before using BRYHALI , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have had irritation or other skin reaction to a steroid medicine in the past .
• • have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before using BRYHALI .
• • have diabetes .
• • have adrenal gland problems .
• • have liver problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if BRYHALI will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if BRYHALI passes into your breast milk .
If you use BRYHALI and breastfeed , do not apply BRYHALI to your nipple or areola to avoid getting BRYHALI into your baby ’ s mouth .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroids medicines by mouth , or injection , or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
How should I use BRYHALI ?
• • Use BRYHALI exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• • Apply a thin layer of BRYHALI to the affected areas 1 time each day and rub in gently .
• • You should not use more than 50 g of BRYHALI in 1 week .
• • Do not bandage , wrap , or cover the treated skin area ( s ) unless your doctor tells you to .
• • Avoid using BRYHALI on your face , groin , or underarms ( armpits ) .
• • Talk to your doctor if your skin does not improve after 8 weeks of treatment with BRYHALI .
• • You should not use BRYHALI longer than 8 weeks unless your doctor tells you to .
• • Wash your hands after using BRYHALI unless you are using the medicine to treat your hands .
What are the possible side effects of BRYHALI ?
BRYHALI may cause serious side effects , including : • • BRYHALI can pass through your skin .
Too much BRYHALI passing through your skin can cause adrenal glands to stop working .
• • Cushing ’ s syndrome , a condition that happens when your body is exposed to too much of the hormone cortisol .
• • High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) .
• • Skin reactions at the treated skin site .
Tell your doctor if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
• • Vision problems .
BRYHALI may increase your chance of developing cataract ( s ) and glaucoma .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop blurred vision or other vision problems during treatment with BRYHALI .
• • Effects on growth and weight in children .
The most common side effects of BRYHALI include burning , stinging , itching , dryness ( application site dermatitis ) , upper respiratory tract infection and high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of BRYHALI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store BRYHALI ?
• • Store BRYHALI at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• • Protect from freezing .
• Keep BRYHALI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of BRYHALI .
• Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use BRYHALI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give BRYHALI to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about BRYHALI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in BRYHALI ?
Active ingredients : halobetasol propionate Inactive ingredients : carbomer copolymer type B , carbomer homopolymer type A , diethyl sebacate , edetate disodium dihydrate , light mineral oil , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monooleate and sorbitol solution , 70 % .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc . , Laval , Quebec H7L 4A8 , Canada U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 809 , 307 and 10 , 478 , 502 BRYHALI is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates • For more information , go to www . bauschhealth . com or call 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 .
• This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
• 9652104 • Revised : 06 / 2020 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 0002 - 01 For Topical Use Only Not for Eye Use BRYHALI ® ( halobetasol propionate ) Lotion , 0 . 01 % Rx only Net Wt .
100 g Ortho Dermatologics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
