WARNINGS Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 μg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ' s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets and by use of the minimum effective dose of FORTAMET ® .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
FORTAMET ® treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , FORTAMET ® should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , FORTAMET ® should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking FORTAMET ® , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , FORTAMET ® should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ' s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
FORTAMET ® should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of FORTAMET ® , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking FORTAMET ® do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking FORTAMET ® , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
DESCRIPTION FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets contain an oral antihyperglycemic drug used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is a member of the biguanide class of oral antihyperglycemics and is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other class of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The empirical formula of metformin hydrochloride is C4H11N5 • HCl and its molecular weight is 165 . 63 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
FORTAMET ® Extended - Release Tablets are designed for once - a - day oral administration and deliver 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
In addition to the active ingredient metformin hydrochloride , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : candellila wax , cellulose acetate , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycols ( PEG 400 , PEG 8000 ) , polysorbate 80 , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , synthetic black iron oxides , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
FORTAMET ® meets USP Dissolution Test 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SYSTEM COMPONENTS AND PERFORMANCE FORTAMET ® was developed as an extended - release formulation of metformin hydrochloride and designed for once - a - day oral administration using the patented single - composition osmotic technology ( SCOT ™ ) .
The tablet is similar in appearance to other film - coated oral administered tablets but it consists of an osmotically active core formulation that is surrounded by a semipermeable membrane .
Two laser drilled exit ports exist in the membrane , one on either side of the tablet .
The core formulation is composed primarily of drug with small concentrations of excipients .
The semipermeable membrane is permeable to water but not to higher molecular weight components of biological fluids .
Upon ingestion , water is taken up through the membrane , which in turn dissolves the drug and excipients in the core formulation .
The dissolved drug and excipients exit through the laser drilled ports in the membrane .
The rate of drug delivery is constant and dependent upon the maintenance of a constant osmotic gradient across the membrane .
This situation exists so long as there is undissolved drug present in the core tablet .
Following the dissolution of the core materials , the rate of drug delivery slowly decreases until the osmotic gradient across the membrane falls to zero at which time delivery ceases .
The membrane coating remains intact during the transit of the dosage form through the gastrointestinal tract and is excreted in the feces .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting plasma insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
PHARMACOKINETICS AND DRUG METABOLISM Enter section text here Absorption and Bioavailability The appearance of metformin in plasma from a FORTAMET ® Extended - Release Tablet is slower and more prolonged compared to immediate - release metformin .
In a multiple - dose crossover study , 23 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were administered either FORTAMET ® 2000 mg once a day ( after dinner ) or immediate - release ( IR ) metformin hydrochloride 1000 mg twice a day ( after breakfast and after dinner ) .
After 4 weeks of treatment , steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters , area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) , time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) , and maximum concentration ( Cmax ) were evaluated .
Results are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 FORTAMET ® vs . Immediate - Release Metformin Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameters at 4 WeeksPharmacokinetic Parameters ( mean ± SD ) FORTAMET ® 2000 mg ( administered q . d . after dinner ) Immediate - Release Metformin 2000 mg ( 1000 mg b . i . d . ) AUC 0 - 24 hr ( ng • hr / mL ) 26 , 811 ± 7055 27 , 371 ± 5 , 781 Tmax ( hr ) 6 ( 3 - 10 ) 3 ( 1 - 8 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 2849 ± 797 1820 ± 370 In four single - dose studies and one multiple - dose study , the bioavailability of FORTAMET ® 2000 mg given once daily , in the evening , under fed conditions [ as measured by the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) ] was similar to the same total daily dose administered as immediate - release metformin 1000 mg given twice daily .
The geometric mean ratios ( FORTAMET ® / immediate - release metformin ) of AUC0 - 24 hr , AUC0 - 72 hr , and AUC0 - inf .
for these five studies ranged from 0 . 96 to 1 . 08 .
In a single - dose , four - period replicate crossover design study , comparing two 500 mg FORTAMET ® tablets to one 1000 mg FORTAMET ® tablet administered in the evening with food to 29 healthy male subjects , two 500 mg FORTAMET ® tablets were found to be equivalent to one 1000 mg FORTAMET ® tablet .
In a study carried out with FORTAMET ® , there was a dose - associated increase in metformin exposure over 24 hours following oral administration of 1000 , 1500 , 2000 , and 2500 mg .
In three studies with FORTAMET ® using different treatment regimens ( 2000 mg after dinner ; 1000 mg after breakfast and after dinner ; and 2500 mg after dinner ) , the pharmacokinetics of metformin as measured by AUC appeared linear following multiple - dose administration .
The extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from FORTAMET ® increased by approximately 60 % when given with food .
When FORTAMET ® was administered with food , Cmax was increased by approximately 30 % and Tmax was more prolonged compared with the fasting state ( 6 . 1 versus 4 . 0 hours ) .
Distribution Distribution studies with FORTAMET ® have not been conducted .
However , the apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of immediate - release metformin 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of immediate - release metformin , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 - 48 hours and are generally less than 1 μg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of immediate - release metformin , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 μg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Excretion Metabolism studies with FORTAMET ® have not been conducted .
Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
In healthy nondiabetic adults ( N = 18 ) receiving 2500 mg q . d . FORTAMET ® , the percent of the metformin dose excreted in urine over 24 hours was 40 . 9 % and the renal clearance was 542 ± 310 mL / min .
After repeated administration of FORTAMET ® , there is little or no accumulation of metformin in plasma , with most of the drug being eliminated via renal excretion over a 24 - hour dosing interval .
The t1 / 2 was 5 . 4 hours for FORTAMET ® .
Renal clearance of metformin ( Table 2 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Enter section text here Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of immediate - release metformin in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( Table 2 ) .
FORTAMET ® treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pediatrics No pharmacokinetic data from studies of pediatric patients are currently available ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gender Five studies indicated that with FORTAMET ® treatment , the pharmacokinetic results for males and females were comparable .
Table 2 Select Mean ( ± SD ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Immediate - Release MetforminSubject Groups : Immediate - Release Metformin dosea ( number of subjects ) Cmaxb ( μg / mL ) Tmaxc ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderlyf , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CLcrg 61 - 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CLcr 31 - 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CLcr 10 - 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration c Time to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 - 59 years ) e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 - 81 years ) g CLcr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m2 Renal Insufficiency In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( Table 2 ; also see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of immediate - release metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Clinical Studies In a double - blind , randomized , active - controlled , multicenter U . S . clinical study , which compared FORTAMET ® q . d . to immediate - release metformin b . i . d . , 680 patients with type 2 diabetes who had been taking metformin - containing medication at study entry were randomly assigned in equal numbers to double - blind treatment with either FORTAMET ® or immediate - release metformin .
Doses were adjusted during the first six weeks of treatment with study medication based on patients ' FPG levels and were then held constant over a period of 20 weeks .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in HbA1c from baseline to endpoint .
The primary objective was to demonstrate the clinical non - inferiority of FORTAMET ® compared to immediate - release metformin on the primary endpoint .
FORTAMET ® and metformin patients had mean HbA1c changes from baseline to endpoint equal to + 0 . 40 and + 0 . 14 , respectively ( Table 3 ) .
The least - square ( LS ) mean treatment difference was 0 . 25 ( 95 % CI = 0 . 14 , 0 . 37 ) demonstrating that FORTAMET ® was clinically similar to metformin according to the pre - defined criterion to establish efficacy .
Table 3 FORTAMET ® vs . Immediate - Release Metformin Switch Study : Summary of Mean Changes in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , Body Weight , Body Mass Index , and Plasma Insulin FORTAMET ® Immediate - Release Metformin Treatment difference for change from baseline ( FORTAMET ® minus Immediate - Release Metformin ) LS mean ( 2 sided 95 % CIa ) HbA1c ( % ) N 327 332 0 . 25 Baseline ( mean ± SD ) 7 . 04 ± 0 . 88 7 . 07 ± 0 . 76 ( 0 . 14 , 0 . 37 ) b Change from baseline ( mean ± SD ) 0 . 40 ± 0 . 75 0 . 14 ± 0 . 75 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) N 329 333 6 . 43 Baseline ( mean ± SD ) 146 . 8 ± 32 . 1 145 . 6 ± 29 . 5 ( 0 . 57 , 12 . 29 ) Change from baseline ( mean ± SD ) 10 . 0 ± 40 . 8 4 . 2 ± 35 . 9 Plasma Insulin ( μu / mL ) N 304 316 0 . 02 Baseline ( mean ± SD ) 17 . 9 ± 15 . 1 17 . 3 ± 10 . 5 ( - 1 . 47 , 1 . 50 ) Change from baseline ( mean ± SD ) - 3 . 6 ± 13 . 8 - 3 . 2 ± 8 . 6 Body Weight ( kg ) N 313 320 0 . 30 Baseline ( mean ± SD ) 94 . 1 ± 17 . 8 93 . 3 ± 17 . 4 ( - 0 . 22 , 0 . 81 ) Change from baseline ( mean ± SD ) 0 . 3 ± 2 . 9 0 . 0 ± 3 . 7 Body Mass Index ( kg / m2 ) N 313 320 0 . 08 Baseline ( mean ± SD ) 31 . 1 ± 4 . 7 31 . 4 ± 4 . 5 ( - 0 . 11 , 0 . 26 ) Change from baseline ( mean ± SD ) 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 0 . 0 ± 1 . 3 a CI = Confidence Interval b FORTAMET ® was clinically similar to immediate - release metformin based on the pre - defined criterion to establish efficacy .
While demonstrating clinical similarity , the response to FORTAMET ® compared to immediate - release metformin was also shown to be statistically smaller as seen by the 95 % CI for the treatment difference which did not include zero .
Footnote : Patients were taking metformin - containing medications at baseline that were prescribed by their personal physicians .
The mean changes for FPG ( Table 3 ) and plasma insulin ( Table 3 ) were small for both FORTAMET ® and immediate - release metformin , and were not clinically meaningful .
Seventy - six ( 22 % ) and 49 ( 14 % ) of the FORTAMET ® and immediate - release patients , respectively , discontinued prematurely from the trial .
Eighteen ( 5 % ) patients on FORTAMET ® withdrew because of a stated lack of efficacy , as compared with 8 patients ( 2 % ) on immediate - release metformin ( p = 0 . 047 ) .
Results from this study also indicated that neither FORTAMET ® nor immediate - release metformin were associated with weight gain or increases in body mass index .
A 24 - week , double blind , placebo - controlled study of immediate - release metformin plus insulin , versus insulin plus placebo , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to achieve adequate glycemic control on insulin alone ( Table 4 ) .
Patients randomized to receive immediate - release metformin plus insulin achieved a reduction in HbA1c of 2 . 10 % , compared to a 1 . 56 % reduction in HbA1c achieved by insulin plus placebo .
The improvement in glycemic control was achieved at the final study visit with 16 % less insulin , 93 . 0 U / day versus 110 . 6 U / day , immediate - release metformin plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo , respectively , p = 0 . 04 .
Table 4 Combined Immediate - Release Metformin / lnsulin vs . Placebo / Insulin : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA1c and Daily Insulin Dose Immediate - Release Metformin / Insulin ( n = 26 ) Placebo / Insulin ( n = 28 ) Treatment difference Mean ± SE HbA1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 95 9 . 32 Change at FINAL VISIT - 2 . 10 - 1 . 56 - 0 . 54 ± 0 . 43 a Insulin Dose ( U / day ) Baseline 93 . 12 94 . 64 Change at FINAL VISIT - 0 . 15 15 . 93 - 16 . 08 ± 7 . 77 b a Statistically significant using analysis of covariance with baseline as covariate ( p = 0 . 04 ) .
Not significant using analysis of variance ( values shown in table ) b Statistically significant for insulin ( p = 0 . 04 ) A second double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( n = 51 ) , with 16 weeks of randomized treatment , demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes controlled on insulin for 8 weeks with an average HbA1c of 7 . 46 ± 0 . 97 % , the addition of immediate - release metformin maintained similar glycemic control ( HbA1c 7 . 15 ± 0 . 61 versus 6 . 97 ± 0 . 62 for immediate - release metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , respectively ) with 19 % less insulin versus baseline ( reduction of 23 . 68 ± 30 . 22 versus an increase of 0 . 43 ± 25 . 20 units for immediate - release metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , p less than 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study demonstrated that the combination of immediate - release metformin plus insulin resulted in reduction in body weight of 3 . 11 ± 4 . 30 lbs , compared to an increase of 1 . 30 ± 6 . 08 lbs for placebo plus insulin , p = 0 . 01 .
Pediatric Clinical Studies No pediatric clinical studies have been conducted with FORTAMET ® .
In a double - blind , placebo - controlled study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes ( mean FPG 182 . 2 mg / dL ) , treatment with immediate - release metformin ( up to 2000 mg / day ) for up to 16 weeks ( mean duration of treatment 11 weeks ) resulted in a significant mean net reduction in FPG of 64 . 3 mg / dL compared with placebo ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 Immediate - Release Metformin vs . Placebo ( Pediatricsa ) : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Plasma Glucose and Body Weight at Final Visit Immediate - Release Metformin Placebo p - Value FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 37 ) ( n = 36 ) Baseline 162 . 4 192 . 3 Change at FINAL VISIT - 42 . 9 21 . 4 less than 0 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 39 ) ( n = 38 ) Baseline 205 . 3 189 . 0 Change at FINAL VISIT - 3 . 3 - 2 . 0 NS ** a Pediatric patients mean age 13 . 8 years ( range 10 - 16 years ) * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline ** Not statistically significant INDICATIONS AND USAGE FORTAMET ® is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS FORTAMET ® is contraindicated in patients with : • Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to metformin .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
FORTAMET ® should be temporarily discontinued in patients undergoing radiologic studies involving intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials , because use of such products may result in acute alteration of renal function ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 μg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ' s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets and by use of the minimum effective dose of FORTAMET ® .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
FORTAMET ® treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , FORTAMET ® should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , FORTAMET ® should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking FORTAMET ® , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , FORTAMET ® should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ' s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
FORTAMET ® should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of FORTAMET ® , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking FORTAMET ® do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking FORTAMET ® , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here General Monitoring of renal function - Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function .
Thus , patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive FORTAMET ® .
In patisents with advanced age , FORTAMET ® should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect , because aging is associated with reduced renal function .
In elderly patients , particularly those ≥ 80 years of age , renal function should be monitored regularly and , generally , FORTAMET ® should not be titrated to the maximum dose ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Before initiation of FORTAMET ® therapy and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified as normal .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , renal function should be assessed more frequently and FORTAMET ® discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Macrovascular Outcomes - There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with FORTAMET ® or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or metformin disposition - Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin , such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , should be used with caution .
Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials ( for example , intravenous urogram , intravenous cholangiography , angiography , and computed tomography ( CT ) scans with intravascular contrast materials ) – Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , FORTAMET ® should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re - evaluated and found to be normal .
Hypoxic states – Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on FORTAMET ® therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued .
Surgical procedures – FORTAMET ® therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ' s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
Alcohol intake – Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving FORTAMET ® .
Impaired hepatic function – Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis , FORTAMET ® should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels – In controlled clinical trials of immediate - release metformin of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum Vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of immediate - release metformin or Vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on FORTAMET ® and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate Vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal Vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum Vitamin B12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes – A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on FORTAMET ® who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate , and metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , FORTAMET ® must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia – Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving FORTAMET ® alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Loss of control of blood glucose – When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to withhold FORTAMET ® and temporarily administer insulin .
FORTAMET ® may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved .
The effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in lowering blood glucose to a targeted level decreases in many patients over a period of time .
This phenomenon , which may be due to progression of the underlying disease or to diminished responsiveness to the drug , is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective during initial therapy .
Should secondary failure occur with FORTAMET ® or sulfonylurea monotherapy , combined therapy with FORTAMET ® and sulfonylurea may result in a response .
Should secondary failure occur with combined FORTAMET ® / sulfonylurea therapy , it may be necessary to consider therapeutic alternatives including initiation of insulin therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of FORTAMET ® and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function , and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue FORTAMET ® immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of FORTAMET ® , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of metformin therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counseled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving FORTAMET ® .
FORTAMET ® alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when FORTAMET ® is used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members ( see Patient Information Printed Below ) .
Patients should be informed that FORTAMET ® must be swallowed whole and not chewed , cut , or crushed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet ( see Patient Information ) .
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with immediate - release metformin therapy , if this is suspected , Vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with Immediate - Release Metformin ) Glyburide – In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , co - administration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and Cmax were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant FORTAMET ® and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide – A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by co - administration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood Cmax by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when co - administered chronically .
Nifedipine – A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co - administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
Tmax and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Cationic drugs – Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , or vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of FORTAMET ® and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other – Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving FORTAMET ® , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving FORTAMET ® , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol , and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when co - administered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies with metformin have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately four times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category BRecent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , FORTAMET ® should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with immediate - release metformin or FORTAMET ® .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If FORTAMET ® is discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use No pediatric clinical studies have been conducted with FORTAMET ® .
The safety and effectiveness of immediate - release metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years ( studies have not been conducted in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years ) .
Use of immediate - release metformin in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of immediate - release metformin in adults with additional data from a controlled clinical study in pediatric patients ages 10 - 16 years with type 2 diabetes , which demonstrated a similar response in glycemic control to that seen in adults ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Studies ) .
In this study , adverse effects were similar to those described in adults ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients ) .
A maximum daily dose of 2000 mg of immediate - release metformin is recommended .
The safety and efficacy of FORTAMET ® has not been evaluated in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Of the 389 patients who received FORTAMET ® in controlled Phase III clinical studies , 26 . 5 % [ 103 / 389 ] were 65 years and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Controlled clinical studies of immediate - release metformin did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney and because of the risk of serious adverse reactions to the drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function , immediate - release metformin should only be used in patients with normal renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because aging is associated with reduced renal function , immediate - release metformin should be used with caution as age increases .
Care should be taken in dose selection and should be based on careful and regular monitoring of renal function .
Generally , elderly patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of immediate - release metformin ( see also WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Enter section text here FORTAMET ® Clinical Studies In the controlled clinical studies of FORTAMET ® in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 424 patients received FORTAMET ® therapy ( up to 2500 mg / day ) and 430 patients received immediate - release metformin .
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5 % of the FORTAMET ® or immediate - release metformin patients are listed in Table 6 .
These pooled results show that the most frequently reported adverse reactions in the FORTAMET ® group were infection , diarrhea , and nausea .
Similar incidences of these adverse reactions were seen in the immediate - release metformin group .
Table 6 Number and Percentage of Patients With the Most Common ( Incidence ≥ 5 % ) Treatment - Emergent Signs or Symptoms by Body System and Preferred Term - Pooled Phase II and III Studies FORTAMET ® ( N = 424 ) Immediate - Release Metformin ( N = 430 ) Body System Preferred Term n ( % ) n ( % ) Body as a Whole Accidental Injury 31 ( 7 . 3 ) 24 ( 5 . 6 ) Headache 20 ( 4 . 7 ) 22 ( 5 . 1 ) Infection 87 ( 20 . 5 ) 90 ( 20 . 9 ) Digestive System Diarrhea 71 ( 16 . 7 ) 51 ( 11 . 9 ) Dyspepsia 18 ( 4 . 2 ) 22 ( 5 . 1 ) Nausea 36 ( 8 . 5 ) 32 ( 7 . 4 ) Respiratory System Rhinitis 18 ( 4 . 2 ) 24 ( 5 . 6 ) The most frequent adverse events thought to be related to FORTAMET ® were diarrhea , nausea , dyspepsia , flatulence , and abdominal pain .
The frequency of dyspepsia was 4 . 2 % in the FORTAMET ® group compared to 5 . 1 % in the immediate - release group , the frequency of flatulence was 3 . 5 % in the FORTAMET ® group compared to 3 . 7 % in the immediate - release group , and the frequency of abdominal pain was 3 . 3 % in the FORTAMET ® group compared to 4 . 4 % in the immediate - release group .
In the controlled studies , 4 . 7 % of patients treated with FORTAMET ® and 4 . 9 % of patients treated with immediate - release metformin were discontinued due to adverse events .
Immediate - Release Metformin Immediate - Release Metformin Phase III Clinical Studies In a U . S . double - blind clinical study of immediate - release metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received immediate - release metformin therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the immediate - release metformin patients , and that were more common in immediate - release metformin than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 . 0 % ) in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Immediate - Release Metformin Monotherapy * Immediate - Release Metformin Monotherapy ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) Adverse Reaction % of Patients Diarrhea 53 . 2 11 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 25 . 5 8 . 3 Flatulence 12 . 1 5 . 5 Asthenia 9 . 2 5 . 5 Indigestion 7 . 1 4 . 1 Abdominal Discomfort 6 . 4 4 . 8 Headache 5 . 7 4 . 8 * Reactions that were more common in immediate - release metformin that placebo - treated patients Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with immediate - release metformin .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 - ≤ 5 . 0 % of immediate - release metformin patients and were more commonly reported with immediate - release metformin than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
Pediatric Patients No pediatric clinical studies have been conducted with FORTAMET ® .
In clinical trials with immediate - release metformin in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
OVERDOSAGE Hypoglycemia has not been seen even with ingestion of up to 85 grams of immediate - release metformin , although lactic acidosis has occurred in such circumstances ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin over - dosage is suspected .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with FORTAMET ® or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of FORTAMET ® must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose .
The maximum recommended daily dose of FORTAMET ® Extended - Release Tablets in adults is 2500 mg .
FORTAMET ® should be taken with a full glass of water once daily with the evening meal .
FORTAMET ® should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to FORTAMET ® and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of FORTAMET ® , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of FORTAMET ® may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Recommended Dosing ScheduleThe usual starting dose of FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets is 1000 mg taken with a full glass of water once daily with the evening meal , although 500 mg may be utilized when clinically appropriate .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly , up to a maximum of 2500 mg once daily with the evening meal ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ) .
In randomized trials , patients currently treated with immediate - release metformin were switched to FORTAMET ® .
Results of this trial suggest that patients receiving immediate - release metformin treatment may be safely switched to FORTAMET ® once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2500 mg once daily .
Following a switch from immediate - release metformin to FORTAMET ® , glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ) .
Pediatrics – There is no pediatric information available for FORTAMET ® .
Transfer From Other Antidiabetic TherapyWhen transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to FORTAMET ® , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant FORTAMET ® and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult PatientsIf patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of FORTAMET ® monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing FORTAMET ® at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( also known as glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant FORTAMET ® and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant FORTAMET ® and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken ( see Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea ) .
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of FORTAMET ® and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without FORTAMET ® .
Concomitant FORTAMET ® and Insulin Therapy in Adult PatientsThe current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of FORTAMET ® therapy .
FORTAMET ® therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of FORTAMET ® should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose for FORTAMET ® Extended - Release Tablets is 2500 mg .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and FORTAMET ® .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient PopulationsFORTAMET ® is not recommended for use in pregnancy , and is not recommended in patients below the age of 17 years .
The initial and maintenance dosing of FORTAMET ® should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of FORTAMET ® .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly ( see WARNINGS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets are supplied as biconvex - shaped , film - coated extended - release tablets containing 500 mg or 1000 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
500 mg extended - release , white - colored tablets imprinted with Andrx logo and 574 on one side : bottles of 60 ( NDC 54868 - 5558 - 0 ) ; and in bottles of 90 ( NDC 54868 - 5558 - 1 ) .
1000 mg extended - release , white - colored tablets imprinted with Andrx logo and 575 on one side : bottles of 30 ( NDC 54868 - 2894 - 0 ) .
STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) - Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed ( protect from moisture ) .
Protect from light .
Avoid excessive heat and humidity .
Distributed by : Sciele Pharma , Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30328 Manufactured by : Watson Laboratories - Florida Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33314 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PATIENT INFORMATION ABOUT FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets Q1 .
Why do I need to take FORTAMET ® ?
Your doctor has prescribed FORTAMET ® to treat your type 2 diabetes , a condition in which blood sugar ( blood glucose ) is elevated .
There are two types of diabetes .
FORTAMET ® is indicated for the most common type , known as type 2 diabetes .
Q2 .
Why is it important to control type 2 diabetes ?
Type 2 diabetes has multiple possible complications , including blindness , kidney failure , and circulatory and heart problems .
Lowering your blood sugar to a normal level may prevent or delay these complications .
Q3 .
How is type 2 diabetes usually controlled ?
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of oral medications and by insulin injections .
Your doctor may recommend that you try lifestyle modifications such as improved diet and exercise before initiating drug treatment for type 2 diabetes .
Each patient will be treated individually by his or her physician , and should follow all treatment recommendations .
Q4 .
Does FORTAMET ® work differently from other glucose control medications ?
Yes .
FORTAMET ® , as well as other formulations of metformin , lowers the amount of sugar in your blood by controlling how much sugar is released by the liver .
FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) does not cause your body to produce more insulin .
FORTAMET ® rarely causes hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) and it does not usually cause weight gain when taken alone .
However , if you do not eat enough , if you take other medications to lower blood sugar , or if you drink alcohol , you can develop hypoglycemia .
Specifically , when FORTAMET ® is taken together with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia and weight gain are more likely to occur .
Q5 .
What happens if my blood sugar is still too high ?
If your blood sugar is high , consult your physician .
When blood sugar cannot be lowered enough by either FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets or a sulfonylurea , the two medications can be effective when taken together .
Other alternatives involve switching to other oral antidiabetic drugs ( e . g . , alpha glucoside inhibitors or glitazones ) .
FORTAMET ® may be stopped and replaced with other drugs and / or insulin .
If you are unable to maintain your blood sugar with diet , exercise and glucose - control medications taken orally , then your doctor may prescribe injectable insulin to control your diabetes .
Q6 .
Why should I take FORTAMET ® in addition to insulin if I am already on insulin alone ?
Adding FORTAMET ® to insulin can help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose and possibly reducing your weight .
Q7 .
Can FORTAMET ® cause side effects ?
FORTAMET ® , like all blood sugar - lowering medications , can cause side effects in some patients .
Most of these side effects are minor and will go away after you ' ve taken FORTAMET ® for a while .
However , there are also serious but rare side effects related to FORTAMET ® ( see below ) .
Q8 .
What kind of side effects can FORTAMET ® cause ?
If side effects occur , they usually occur during the first few weeks of therapy .
They are normally minor ones such as diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain and upset stomach .
FORTAMET ® is generally taken with meals , which reduce these side effects .
Although these side effects are likely to go away , call your doctor if you have severe discomfort or if these effects last for more than a few weeks .
Some patients may need to have their doses lowered or stop taking FORTAMET ® , either temporarily or permanently .
You should tell your doctor if the problems come back or start later on during the therapy .
WARNING : A rare number of people who have taken metformin have developed a serious condition called lactic acidosis .
Properly functioning kidneys are needed to help prevent lactic acidosis .
You should not take FORTAMET ® if you have impaired kidney function , as measured by a blood test ( see Q9 - 13 ) .
Q9 .
Are there any serious side effects that FORTAMET ® can cause ?
FORTAMET ® rarely causes serious side effects .
The most serious side effect that FORTAMET ® can cause is called lactic acidosis .
Q10 .
What is lactic acidosis and can it happen to me ?
Lactic acidosis is caused by a build - up of lactic acid in the blood .
Lactic acidosis associated with metformin is rare and has occurred mostly in people whose kidneys were not working normally .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in about one in 33 , 000 patients taking metformin over the course of a year .
Although rare , if lactic acidosis does occur , it can be fatal in up to half the cases .
It is also important for your liver to be working normally when you take FORTAMET ® .
Your liver helps to remove lactic acid from your bloodstream .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that FORTAMET ® causes harm to the kidneys or liver .
Q11 .
Are there other risk factors for lactic acidosis ?
Your risk of developing lactic acidosis from taking FORTAMET ® is very low as long as your kidneys and liver are healthy .
However , some factors can increase your risk because they can affect kidney and liver function .
You should discuss your risk with your physician .
You should not take FORTAMET ® if : • You have some forms of kidney or liver problems • You have congestive heart failure which is treated with medications , e . g . , digoxin ( Lanoxin ® ) or furosemide ( Lasix ® ) • You drink alcohol excessively ( all the time or short - term “ binge ” drinking ) • You are seriously dehydrated ( have lost a large amount of body fluids ) • You are going to have , within a few days , certain x - ray tests with injectable contrast agents • You are going to have surgery • You develop a serious condition such as a heart attack , severe infection , or a stroke • You are 80 years of age or older and have NOT had your kidney function tested Q12 .
What are the symptoms of lactic acidosis ?
Some of the symptoms include feeling very weak , tired or uncomfortable , unusual muscle pain , trouble breathing , unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort , feeling cold , feeling dizzy or lightheaded , or suddenly developing a slow or irregular heartbeat .
If you notice these symptoms , or if your medical condition has suddenly changed , stop taking FORTAMET ® and call your doctor right away .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital .
Q13 .
What does my doctor need to know to decrease my risk of lactic acidosis ?
Tell your doctor if you have an illness that results in severe vomiting , diarrhea and / or fever , or if your intake of fluids is generally reduced .
These situations can lead to severe dehydration , and it may be necessary to stop taking FORTAMET ® temporarily .
You should let your doctor know if you are going to have any surgery or specialized x - ray procedures that require injection of contrast agents .
FORTAMET ® therapy will need to be stopped temporarily in such instances .
Q14 .
Can I take FORTAMET ® with other medications ?
Remind your doctor and / or pharmacist that you are taking FORTAMET ® when any new drug is prescribed or a change is made in how you take a drug already prescribed .
FORTAMET ® may interfere with the way some drugs work and some drugs may interfere with the action of FORTAMET ® .
Q15 .
What if I become pregnant while taking FORTAMET ® ?
Tell your doctor if you plan to become pregnant or have become pregnant .
As with other oral glucose - control medications , you should not take FORTAMET ® during pregnancy .
Usually your doctor will prescribe insulin while you are pregnant .
Q16 .
How do I take FORTAMET ® ?
FORTAMET ® tablets should not be cut , crushed , or chewed and should be taken whole with a full glass of water once daily with the evening meal .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of FORTAMET ® may be eliminated as a soft mass in your stool that may look like the original tablet ; this is not harmful and will not effect the way FORTAMET ® works to control diabetes .
FORTAMET ® should be taken once a day with food .
You will be started on a low dose of FORTAMET ® and your dosage will be increased gradually until your blood sugar is controlled .
Q17 .
Where can I get more information about FORTAMET ® ?
This leaflet is a summary of the most important information about FORTAMET ® .
If you have any questions or problems , you should talk to your doctor or other healthcare provider about type 2 diabetes as well as FORTAMET ® and its side effects .
Distributed by : Sciele Pharma , Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30328 Manufactured by : Watson Laboratories - Florida Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33314 www . Fortamet . com FORT - PI - 08 Rev . 07 / 08 74200708 U . S . patent numbers 6 , 495 , 162 ; 6 , 866 , 866 ; 6 , 790 , 459 ; 6 , 099 , 859 - additional patents pending .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL FORTAMET ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Tablets 500 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
