Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , USP ( saturated ) 1 g / mL Rx only Description Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , USP is a saturated solution of potassium iodide containing 1 gram of potassium iodide per mL .
Clinical Pharmacology Potassium iodide is thought to act as an expectorant by increasing respiratory tract secretions and thereby decreasing the viscosity of mucus .
Indications and Usage Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , USP is for use as an expectorant in the symptomatic treatment of chronic pulmonary diseases where tenacious mucus complicates the problem , including bronchial asthma , bronchitis and pulmonary emphysema .
Contraindications Contraindicated in patients with a known sensitivity to iodides .
Warnings Potassium iodide can cause fetal harm , abnormal thyroid function , and goiter when administered to a pregnant woman .
Because of the possible development of fetal goiter , if the drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant during therapy , apprise the patient of the potential hazard .
Precautions General In some patients , prolonged use of iodides can lead to hypothyroidism .
Iodides should be used with caution in patients having Addison ' s disease , cardiac disease , hyperthyroidism , myotonia congenita , tuberculosis , acute bronchitis , or renal function impairment .
Drug Interactions Concurrent use with lithium or antithyroid drugs may potentiate the hypothyroid and goitrogenic effects of these medications .
Concurrent use with potassium - containing medications , potassium - sparing diuretics and angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors ( ACE inhibitors ) may result in hyperkalemia and cardiac arrhythmias or cardiac arrest .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Thyroid function tests may be altered by iodide .
Pregnancy Category D see " Warnings " section .
Nursing Mothers Potassium iodide is excreted in breast milk .
Use by nursing mothers may cause skin rash and thyroid suppression in the infant .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Adverse Reactions The most frequent adverse reactions to potassium iodide are stomach upset , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , stomach pain , skin rash , and salivary gland swelling or tenderness .
Less frequent adverse reactions include gastrointestinal bleeding , confusion , irregular heartbeat , numbness , tingling , pain or weakness in hands or feet , unusual tiredness , weakness or heaviness of legs , fever , and swelling of neck or throat .
Thyroid adenoma , goiter , and myxedema are possible side effects .
Iodism or chronic iodine poisoning may occur during prolonged treatment or with the use of high doses .
The symptoms of iodism include burning of mouth or throat , severe headache , metallic taste , soreness of teeth and gums , symptoms of head cold , irritation of the eyes with swelling of the eyelids , unusual increase in salivation , acneform skin lesions in the seborrheic areas , and rarely , severe skin eruptions .
If symptoms of iodism appear , the drug should be withdrawn and the patient given appropriate supportive therapy .
Hypersensitivity to iodides may occur and may be manifested by angioedema , cutaneous and mucosal hemorrhage , and signs and symptoms resembling serum sickness , such as fever , arthralgia , lymph node enlargement , and eosinophilia .
Overdosage Acute toxicity from potassium iodide is relatively rare .
An occasional individual may show marked sensitivity and the onset of acute poisoning can occur immediately or hours after administration .
Angioedema , laryngeal edema and cutaneous hemorrhages may occur .
Iodism or chronic iodine poisoning may occur during prolonged treatment or with the use of high doses .
Symptoms of iodism typically disappear soon after discontinuation of the drug .
Abundant fluid and salt intake aids in iodide elimination .
Dosage and Administration Adults - 0 . 3 mL ( 300 mg ) or 0 . 6 mL ( 600 mg ) diluted in one glassful of water , fruit juice or milk 3 to 4 times daily .
To minimize gastric irritation , take with food or milk .
This medication should be used no longer than necessary to produce the desired effect .
How Supplied Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , USP is supplied in 1 fluid ounce ( 30 mL ) bottles ( NDC 16477 - 601 - 01 ) with a calibrated dropper marked to deliver 0 . 3 mL ( 300 mg ) and 0 . 6 mL ( 600 mg ) ; and 8 fluid ounce ( 237 mL ) bottles ( NDC 16477 - 601 - 08 ) .
Inactive ingredient : Sodium thiosulfate as a preservative .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed and protected from light .
For the 237 mL bottle , dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closures .
For the 30 mL bottle , place the child - resistant cap back on the amber glass bottle after using the clear plastic dropper for dispensing .
Notice : When exposed to cold temperatures , crystallization may occur , but on warming and shaking , the crystals will redissolve .
If the solution turns brownish - yellow in color , it should be discarded .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Potassium Iodide Oral Solution , USP ( saturated ) 1 g / mL 1 Fluid Oz .
( 30 mL ) 8 Fluid Oz .
( 237 mL ) Rx only LASER Pharmaceuticals , LLC USUAL DOSAGE : Adults - 0 . 3 mL ( 300 mg ) or 0 . 6 mL ( 600 mg ) diluted in one glassful of water , fruit juice or milk 3 to 4 times daily .
To minimize gastric irritation , take with food or milk .
This medication should be used no longer than necessary to produced the desired affect .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep tightly closed and protected from light .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resitant closures .
Notice : When exposed to cold temperatures , crystallization may occur , but on warming and shaking , the crystals will redissolve .
If the solution turns brownish - yellow in color , it should be discarded .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Manufactured for Laser Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Alpharetta , GA 30004 All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this produvt shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each person ' s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical informaiton provided herein .
Rev . 05 - 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
