1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MENOPUR ® ( menotropins for injection ) is a gonadotropin indicated for : • Development of multiple follicles and pregnancy in ovulatory women as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) cycle ( 1 ) Development of Multiple Follicles and Pregnancy in Ovulatory Women as Part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) Cycle Prior to initiation of treatment with MENOPUR ® ( menotropins for injection ) : • Perform a complete gynecologic and endocrinologic evaluation , and diagnose the cause of infertility • Exclude the possibility of pregnancy • Evaluate the fertility status of the male partner • Exclude a diagnosis of primary ovarian failure 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initial starting dose of the first cycle - 225 International Units per day , administered subcutaneously ( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage adjustments after 5 days and by no more than 150 International Units at each adjustment ( 2 . 2 ) • Do not administer doses greater than 450 International Units per day ( 2 . 2 ) • MENOPUR may be administered together with BRAVELLE ® ( urofollitropin for injection , purified ) .
Only the total starting dose of 225 International Units ( 150 International Units of MENOPUR and 75 International Units of BRAVELLE or 75 International Units of MENOPUR and 150 International Units of BRAVELLE ) was studied in a clinical trial .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• Administer MENOPUR subcutaneously in the abdomen as described in Instructions for Use .
• MENOPUR may be administered together with BRAVELLE ® ( urofollitropin for injection , purified ) .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosing for Assisted Reproductive Technology The recommended dosing scheme for patients undergoing IVF follows a stepwise approach and is individualized for each woman .
The recommended initial dose of MENOPUR for women who have received a GnRH agonist for pituitary suppression is 225 International Units .
MENOPUR may be administered together with BRAVELLE and the total initial dose when the products are combined should not exceed 225 International Units ( 150 International Units of MENOPUR and 75 International Units of BRAVELLE or 75 International Units of MENOPUR and 150 International Units of BRAVELLE ) .
• Beginning on cycle day 2 or 3 , a starting dose of 225 International Units of MENOPUR is administered subcutaneously daily .
Adjust the dose after 5 days based on the woman ' s ovarian response , as determined by ultrasound evaluation of follicular growth and serum estradiol levels .
• Do not make additional dosage adjustments more frequently than every 2 days or by more than 150 International Units at each adjustment .
• Continue treatment until adequate follicular development is evident , and then administer hCG .
Withhold the administration of hCG in cases where the ovarian monitoring suggests an increased risk of OHSS on the last day of MENOPUR therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 10 ) ] .
• Do not administer daily doses of MENOPUR or MENOPUR in combination with BRAVELLE that exceed 450 International Units .
• Therapy should not exceed 20 days .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lyophilized powder for Injection containing 75 International Units FSH and 75 International Units of LH activity , supplied as lyophilized powder or pellet in sterile vials with diluent vials and Q • Cap ® vial adapters .
Lyophilized powder for injection : containing 75 IU FSH and 75 IU of LH activity , supplied as lyophilized powder or pellet in sterile vials with diluent vials and Q • Cap ® vial adapters .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS MENOPUR is contraindicated in women who exhibit : • Prior hypersensitivity to MENOPUR or menotropins products or one of their excipients • High levels of FSH indicating primary ovarian failure [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] • Pregnancy MENOPUR may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
MENOPUR is contraindicated in women who are pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the woman becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the woman should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
• Presence of uncontrolled non - gonadal endocrinopathies ( e . g . , thyroid , adrenal , or pituitary disorders ) [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] • Sex hormone dependent tumors of the reproductive tract and accessory organs • Tumors of pituitary gland or hypothalamus • Abnormal uterine bleeding of undetermined origin • Ovarian cyst or enlargement of undetermined origin , not due to polycystic ovary syndrome MENOPUR is contraindicated in women who exhibit : • Prior hypersensitivity to MENOPUR or menotropins products or one of their excipients ( 4 ) • High levels of FSH indicating primary ovarian failure ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Presence of uncontrolled non - gonadal endocrinopathies ( 4 ) • Sex hormone dependent tumors of the reproductive tract and accessory organ ( 4 ) • Tumors of pituitary gland or hypothalamus ( 4 ) • Abnormal uterine bleeding of undetermined origin ( 4 ) • Ovarian cyst or enlargement of undetermined origin , not due to polycystic ovary syndrome ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS MENOPUR should only be used by physicians who are experienced in infertility treatment .
MENOPUR contains gonadotropic substances capable of causing in women , Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) with or without pulmonary or vascular complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] and multiple births [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Gonadotropin therapy requires the availability of appropriate monitoring facilities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Use the lowest effective dose .
• Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement ( 5 . 1 ) • Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) ( 5 . 2 ) • Pulmonary and Vascular Complications ( 5 . 3 ) • Ovarian Torsion ( 5 . 4 ) • Multi - fetal Gestation and Birth ( 5 . 5 ) • Congenital Malformation ( 5 . 6 ) • Ectopic Pregnancy ( 5 . 7 ) • Spontaneous Abortion ( 5 . 8 ) • Ovarian Neoplasms ( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement In order to minimize the hazards associated with abnormal ovarian enlargement that may occur with MENOPUR therapy , treatment should be individualized and the lowest effective dose should be used [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Use of ultrasound monitoring of ovarian response and / or measurement of serum estradiol levels is important to minimize the risk of ovarian stimulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of MENOPUR therapy , hCG should not be administered in order to reduce the chance of developing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Prohibit intercourse in women with significant ovarian enlargement because of the danger of hemoperitoneum resulting from rupture of ovarian cysts [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) OHSS is a medical event distinct from uncomplicated ovarian enlargement and may progress rapidly to become a serious medical event .
OHSS is characterized by a dramatic increase in vascular permeability , which can result in a rapid accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity , thorax , and potentially , the pericardium .
The early warning signs of development of OHSS are severe pelvic pain , nausea , vomiting , and weight gain .
Abdominal pain , abdominal distension , gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea , vomiting and diarrhea , severe ovarian enlargement , weight gain , dyspnea , and oliguria have been reported with OHSS .
Clinical evaluation may reveal hypovolemia , hemoconcentration , electrolyte imbalances , ascites , hemoperitoneum , pleural effusion , hydrothorax , acute pulmonary distress , and thromboembolic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Transient liver function test abnormalities suggestive of hepatic dysfunction , with or without morphologic changes on liver biopsy , have been reported in association with OHSS .
OHSS occurs after gonadotropin treatment has been discontinued and it can develop rapidly , reaching its maximum about seven to ten days following treatment .
Usually , OHSS resolves spontaneously with the onset of menses .
If there is evidence that OHSS may be developing prior to hCG administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , the hCG must be withheld .
Cases of OHSS are more common , more severe , and more protracted if pregnancy occurs ; therefore , women should be assessed for the development of OHSS for at least two weeks after hCG administration .
If serious OHSS occurs , gonadotropins , including hCG , should be stopped and consideration should be given as to whether the woman needs to be hospitalized .
Treatment is primarily symptomatic and overall should consist of bed rest , fluid and electrolyte management , and analgesics ( if needed ) .
Because the use of diuretics can accentuate the diminished intravascular volume , diuretics should be avoided except in the late phase of resolution as described below .
The management of OHSS may be divided into three phases as follows : • Acute Phase : Management should be directed at preventing hemoconcentration due to loss of intravascular volume to the third space and minimizing the risk of thromboembolic phenomena and kidney damage .
Fluid intake and output , weight , hematocrit , serum and urinary electrolytes , urine specific gravity , BUN and creatinine , total proteins with albumin : globulin ratio , coagulation studies , electrocardiogram to monitor for hyperkalemia , and abdominal girth should be thoroughly assessed daily or more often based on the clinical need .
Treatment , consisting of limited intravenous fluids , electrolytes , human serum albumin , is intended to normalize electrolytes while maintaining an acceptable but somewhat reduced intravascular volume .
Full correction of the intravascular volume deficit may lead to an unacceptable increase in the amount of third space fluid accumulation .
• Chronic Phase : After the acute phase is successfully managed as above , excessive fluid accumulation in the third space should be limited by instituting severe potassium , sodium , and fluid restriction .
• Resolution Phase : As third space fluid returns to the intravascular compartment , a fall in hematocrit and increasing urinary output are observed in the absence of any increase in intake .
Peripheral and / or pulmonary edema may result if the kidneys are unable to excrete third space fluid as rapidly as it is mobilized .
Diuretics may be indicated during the resolution phase , if necessary , to combat pulmonary edema .
Do not remove ascitic , pleural , and pericardial fluid unless there is the necessity to relieve symptoms such as pulmonary distress or cardiac tamponade .
OHSS increases the risk of injury to the ovary .
Pelvic examination or intercourse may cause rupture of an ovarian cyst , which may result in hemoperitoneum , and should be avoided .
If bleeding occurs and requires surgical intervention , the clinical objective should be to control the bleeding and retain as much ovarian tissue as possible .
A physician experienced in the management of this syndrome , or who is experienced in the management of fluid and electrolyte imbalances , should be consulted .
In the IVF clinical trial for MENOPUR , OHSS occurred in 7 . 2 % of the 373 MENOPUR treated women .
5 . 3 Pulmonary and Vascular Complications Serious pulmonary conditions ( e . g . atelectasis , acute respiratory distress syndrome , and exacerbation of asthma ) have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins .
In addition , thromboembolic events both in association with , and separate from the Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins .
Intravascular thrombosis and embolism , which may originate in venous or arterial vessels , can result in reduced blood flow to critical organs or the extremities .
Women with generally recognized risk factors for thrombosis , such as personal or family history , severe obesity , or thrombophilia , may have an increased risk of venous or arterial thromboembolic events during or following treatment with gonadotropins .
Sequelae of such reactions have included venous thrombophlebitis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary infarction , cerebral vascular occlusion ( stroke ) , and arterial occlusion resulting in loss of limb and rarely in myocardial infarctions .
In rare cases , pulmonary complications and / or thromboembolic reactions have resulted in death .
In women with recognized risk factors , the benefits of ovulation induction and assisted reproductive technology need to be weighed against the risks .
Pregnancy also carries an increased risk of thrombosis .
5 . 4 Ovarian Torsion Ovarian torsion has been reported after treatment with gonadotropins .
This may be related to OHSS , pregnancy , previous abdominal surgery , past history of ovarian torsion , previous or current ovarian cyst , and polycystic ovaries .
Damage to the ovary due to reduced blood supply can be limited by early diagnosis and immediate detorsion .
5 . 5 Multi - fetal Gestation and Birth Multi - fetal gestation and births have been reported with all gonadotropin therapy including therapy with MENOPUR .
In the IVF clinical trial of MENOPUR , multiple pregnancy as diagnosed by ultrasound occurred in 35 . 3 % ( n = 30 ) of 85 total pregnancies .
Before beginning treatment with MENOPUR , advise the woman and her partner of the potential risk of multi - fetal gestation and birth .
5 . 6 Congenital Malformations The incidence of congenital malformations after some ART [ specifically in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) ] may be slightly higher than after spontaneous conception .
This slightly higher incidence is thought to be related to differences in parental characteristics ( e . g . , maternal age , maternal and paternal genetic background , sperm characteristics ) and to the higher incidence of multi - fetal gestations after IVF or ICSI .
There are no indications that the use of gonadotropins during IVF or ICSI is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations .
5 . 7 Ectopic Pregnancy Since infertile women undergoing ART often have tubal abnormalities , the incidence of ectopic pregnancy may be increased .
Early confirmation of intrauterine pregnancy should be determined by β - hCG testing and transvaginal ultrasound .
5 . 8 Spontaneous Abortion The risk of spontaneous abortion ( miscarriage ) is increased with gonadotropin products .
However , causality has not been established .
The increased risk may be a factor of the underlying infertility .
5 . 9 Ovarian Neoplasms There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms , both benign and malignant , in women who have had multiple drug therapy for controlled ovarian stimulation ; however , a causal relationship has not been established .
5 . 10 Laboratory Tests In most instances , treatment of women with MENOPUR will result only in follicular growth and maturation .
In the absence of an endogenous LH surge , hCG is given when monitoring of the woman indicates that sufficient follicular development has occurred .
This may be estimated by ultrasound alone or in combination with measurement of serum estradiol levels .
The combination of both ultrasound and serum estradiol measurement are useful for monitoring follicular growth and maturation , timing of the ovulatory trigger , detecting ovarian enlargement and minimizing the risk of the OHSS and multiple gestation .
The clinical confirmation of ovulation is obtained by direct or indirect indices of progesterone production as well as sonographic evidence of ovulation .
Direct or indirect indices of progesterone production : • Urinary or serum luteinizing hormone ( LH ) rise • A rise in basal body temperature • Increase in serum progesterone • Menstruation following the shift in basal body temperature Sonographic evidence of ovulation : • Collapsed follicle • Fluid in the cul - de - sac • Features consistent with corpus luteum formation • Secretory endometrium 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Atelectasis , acute respiratory distress syndrome and exacerbation of asthma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Thromboembolic events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Ovarian Torsion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Multi - fetal Gestation and Birth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Congenital Malformations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Ectopic Pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Spontaneous Abortion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Ovarian Neoplasms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in ART include : abdominal cramps ; abdomen enlarged ; abdominal pain ; headache ; injection site pain and reaction ; injection site inflammation ; OHSS ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two single cycle , open label , multinational , multicenter , comparative trials , a total of 434 normal ovulatory infertile women were randomized and received subcutaneously administered MENOPUR as part of an in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) cycle ( both trials ) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) cycle ( one of the two trials ) .
All women received pituitary down - regulation with gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist before stimulation .
Adverse Reactions occurring at an incidence of ≥ 2 % in women receiving MENOPUR are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : MENOPUR Administered Subcutaneously in Women Undergoing IVF and ICSI .
Adverse Reactions with Incidence of 2 % or Greater Occurring on or After GnRH Administration .
IVF n = 434 Body System / Preferred Term N % Body as a whole Abdominal cramps 13 3 . 0 Abdomen enlarged 10 2 . 3 Abdominal pain 29 6 . 7 Headache 27 6 . 2 Injection site pain + reaction 17 3 . 9 Injection site inflammation 10 2 . 3 Urogenital Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome ( OHSS ) 27 6 . 2 In addition , thrombophlebitis was reported in less than 1 % of subjects .
In an open label , US , multicenter , comparative IVF and ICSI trial , MENOPUR and BRAVELLE were administered in the same syringe to 60 normal ovulatory infertile women .
OHSS , post retrieval cramping and nausea and spontaneous abortion were the most common adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of ≥ 5 % in women receiving the combination of MENOPUR and BRAVELLE .
In another open label , US multicenter , comparative trial for ovulation induction in anovulatory or oligovulatory infertile women , 76 subjects received subcutaneous or intramuscular injections of MENOPUR .
The most common adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of ≥ 5 % in women receiving MENOPUR were : headache ; OHSS ; injection site reaction , abdominal cramps , fullness and pain ; and nausea .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing use of gonadotropins .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , the frequency or a causal relationship to MENOPUR cannot be reliably determined .
Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain , abdominal pain lower , abdominal distension , nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort General disorders and administration site conditions : injection site reactions ( most frequently reported injection site reaction was injection site pain ) , fatigue Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness Reproductive system disorders : OHSS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , pelvic pain , ovarian cyst , breast complaints ( including breast pain , breast tenderness , breast discomfort , and breast swelling ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : acne , rash Vascular disorders : hot flush 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug / drug interaction studies in humans have been conducted for MENOPUR .
No drug / drug interaction studies have been conducted for MENOPUR in humans .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy Category X . Do not use MENOPUR in pregnant women .
( 4 , 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Use : Safety and efficacy not established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal and Hepatic Insufficiency : Safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of MENOPUR in women with renal or hepatic insufficiency have not been established .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category X [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the nursing infant from MENOPUR , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 6 Renal and Hepatic Insufficiency Safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of MENOPUR in women with renal or hepatic insufficiency have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE Aside from possible OHSS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] and multiple gestations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] , there is no additional information on the consequences of acute overdosage with MENOPUR .
11 DESCRIPTION MENOPUR is a preparation of gonadotropins ( FSH and LH activity ) , extracted from the urine of postmenopausal women , which has undergone additional steps for purification .
MENOPUR is a sterile , lyophilized powder intended for subcutaneous ( SC ) injection after reconstitution with sterile 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Each vial of MENOPUR contains 75 International Units of follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) activity and 75 International Units of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) activity , plus 21 mg lactose monohydrate and 0 . 005 mg Polysorbate 20 and Sodium Phosphate Buffer ( Sodium Phosphate Dibasic , Heptahydrate and Phosphoric Acid ) .
The biological activity of MENOPUR is determined using the bioassays for FSH ( ovarian weight gain assay in female rats ) and LH ( seminal vesicle weight gain assay in male rats ) , modified to increase the accuracy and reproducibility of these assays .
The FSH and LH activity assays are standardized using the Fourth International Standard for Urinary FSH and Urinary LH , November 2000 , by the Expert Committee on Biological Standardization of the World Health Organization ( WHO ECBS ) .
Both FSH and LH are glycoproteins that are acidic and water - soluble .
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin ( hCG ) is detected in MENOPUR .
MENOPUR has been mixed in vitro with BRAVELLE with no evidence of aggregation .
Therapeutic class : Infertility 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action MENOPUR , administered for 7 to 20 days , produces ovarian follicular growth and maturation in women who do not have primary ovarian failure .
Treatment with MENOPUR in most instances results only in follicular growth and maturation .
When sufficient follicular maturation has occurred , hCG must be given to induce ovulation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Two open - label , randomized , controlled trials were conducted to assess the pharmacokinetics of MENOPUR .
Study 2003 - 02 compared single doses of subcutaneous administration of the US and European ( EU ) formulations of MENOPUR in 57 healthy , pre - menopausal females who had undergone pituitary suppression .
The study established that the two formulations are bioequivalent .
Study 2000 - 03 assessed single and multiple doses of MENOPUR administered subcutaneously and intramuscularly in a 3 phase crossover design in 33 healthy , pre - menopausal females who had undergone pituitary suppression .
The primary pharmacokinetic endpoints were FSH AUC and Cmax values .
The results are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : FSH Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ Mean ( SD ) ] Following MENOPUR Administration ( Study 2000 - 03 ) PK Parameters Single Dose ( 225 IU ) Multiple Dose ( 225 IU × 1 day then 150 IU × 6 days ) Subcutaneous Intramuscular Subcutaneous Intramuscular Cmax [ 1 ] ( mIU / mL ) 8 . 5 ( 2 . 5 ) 7 . 8 ( 2 . 4 ) 15 . 0 ( 3 . 6 ) 12 . 5 ( 2 . 3 ) Tmax ( hr ) 17 . 9 ( 5 . 8 ) 27 . 5 ( 25 . 4 ) 8 . 0 ( 3 . 0 ) 9 . 0 ( 7 . 0 ) AUC † ( hr - mlU / mL ) 726 . 2 ( 243 . 0 ) 656 . 1 ( 233 . 7 ) 622 . 7 ( 153 . 0 ) 546 . 2 ( 91 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Single dose C max , AUC 120 and multiple dose C maxss , AUC ss Absorption The subcutaneous route of administration trends toward greater bioavailability than the intramuscular route for single and multiple doses of MENOPUR .
Distribution Human tissue or organ distribution of FSH and LH has not been studied for MENOPUR .
Metabolism Metabolism of FSH and LH has not been studied for MENOPUR in humans .
Excretion The elimination half - lives for FSH in the multiple - dose phase were similar ( 11 - 13 hours ) for subcutaneously administered MENOPUR and intramuscularly administered MENOPUR .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term toxicity studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of menotropins .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of MENOPUR was established in one randomized , open - label , multicenter , multinational ( in Europe and Israel ) , comparative clinical trial of women undergoing in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or IVF plus intracytoplasmic injection ( ICSI ) to achieve pregnancy .
All women began ovarian stimulation as part of an IVF cycle following pituitary suppression with a GnRH agonist .
A total of 373 patients were randomized to the MENOPUR arm .
Randomization was stratified by insemination technique [ conventional IVF vs . ICSI ] .
Efficacy was assessed based on the primary efficacy parameter of continuing pregnancy .
The initial daily dose of MENOPUR was 225 International Units administered subcutaneously for five days .
Thereafter , the dose was individualized according to each patient ' s response , up to a maximum of 450 IU / day for a total maximum duration of stimulation of 20 days .
Treatment outcomes are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Efficacy Outcome in IVF Study ( one cycle of treatment ) Parameter Subcutaneously Administered MENOPUR n = 373 Continuing Pregnancy ( % ) [ 1 ] 87 ( 23 ) [ 2 ] Clinical Pregnancy ( % ) 98 ( 26 ) [ 3 ] [ 1 ] Continuing pregnancy was defined as ultrasound visualization of gestational sac with fetal heartbeat at ≥ 10 weeks after ET [ 2 ] Non - inferior to comparator recombinant human FSH based on a two - sided 95 % confidence interval , intent - to - treat analysis [ 3 ] Secondary efficacy parameter .
Study was not powered to demonstrate differences in this parameter 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied MENOPUR ( menotropins for injection ) is supplied in sterile vials as a lyophilized , white to off - white powder or pellet .
Each vial of MENOPUR is accompanied by a vial of sterile diluent containing 2 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride for Injection , USP : 75 International Units FSH and 75 International Units of LH activity , supplied as NDC 55566 - 7501 - 2 : Box of 5 vials + 5 vials diluent + 5 Q • Cap vial adapters 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Lyophilized powder may be stored refrigerated or at room temperature ( 3 ° to 25 ° C / 37 ° to 77 ° F ) until dispensed .
Protect from light .
Use immediately after reconstitution .
Discard unused material .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
17 . 1 Dosing and Use Instruct women on the correct usage and dosing of MENOPUR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Caution women not to change the dosage or the schedule of administration unless she is told to do so by her healthcare provider .
17 . 2 Duration and Monitoring Required Prior to beginning therapy with MENOPUR , inform women about the time commitment and monitoring procedures necessary for treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
17 . 3 Instructions Regarding a Missed Dose Inform the woman that if she misses or forgets to take a dose of MENOPUR , the next dose should not be doubled and she should call her healthcare provider for further dosing instructions .
17 . 4 Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome Inform women regarding the risks of OHSS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] and OHSS - associated symptoms including lung and blood vessel problems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] and ovarian torsion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] with the use of MENOPUR .
17 . 5 Multi - fetal Gestation and Birth Inform women regarding the risk of multi - fetal gestation and birth with the use of MENOPUR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Vials of sterile diluent of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP manufactured for Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc .
MANUFACTURED FOR : FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
PARSIPPANY , NJ 07054 8109000033 Rev : 05 / 2018 Patient Information MENOPUR ® ( Men - oh - pyoor ) ( menotropins for injection ) for subcutaneous use Read this Patient Information before you start using MENOPUR ® ( menotropins for injection ) and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is MENOPUR ?
MENOPUR is a prescription medicine that contains follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) .
MENOPUR causes your ovaries to make multiple ( more than 1 ) eggs as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology ( ART ) cycle .
Who should not use MENOPUR ?
Do not use MENOPUR if you : • are allergic to menotropins or any of the ingredients in MENOPUR .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in MENOPUR .
• have ovaries that no longer make eggs ( primary ovarian failure ) • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant .
If MENOPUR is taken while you are pregnant , it may harm your baby .
• have problems with your thyroid gland , adrenal gland or pituitary gland that are not controlled by taking medicine .
• have a tumor in your female organs , including your ovaries , breast , or uterus that may get worse with high levels of estrogen • have a tumor of your pituitary gland or hypothalamus • have abnormal bleeding from your uterus or vagina and the cause is not known • have ovarian cysts or enlarged ovaries , not due to a problem called polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) What should I tell my healthcare provider before using MENOPUR ?
Before you use MENOPUR , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have been told by a healthcare provider that you are at an increased risk for blood clots ( thrombosis ) • have ever had a blood clot ( thrombosis ) , or anyone in your family has ever had a blood clot • had twisting of your ovary ( ovarian torsion ) • had or have a cyst in your ovary • have any other medical conditions • are breast feeding or plan to breast feed .
It is not known if MENOPUR passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will use MENOPUR or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use MENOPUR ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information about the right way to use MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE ® ( urofollitropin for injection , purified ) .
• Use MENOPUR exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much MENOPUR to use and when to use it .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose of MENOPUR if needed .
• If you miss a dose of MENOPUR , call your healthcare provider right away .
Do not double the amount of MENOPUR you are using .
• You may need more than 1 vial of MENOPUR for your dose .
• MENOPUR may be mixed with BRAVELLE in the same syringe .
What are possible side effects of MENOPUR ?
MENOPUR may cause serious side effects , including : • ovaries that are too large .
MENOPUR may cause your ovaries to be abnormally large .
Symptoms of large ovaries include bloating or pain in your lower stomach ( pelvic ) area .
If your ovaries become too large your healthcare provider may tell you that you should not have intercourse ( sex ) so you do not rupture an ovarian cyst .
• ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome ( OHSS ) .
Using MENOPUR may cause OHSS .
OHSS is a serious medical condition that can happen when your ovaries produce too many eggs ( overstimulated ) .
OHSS can cause fluid to suddenly build up in the area of your stomach , chest , heart , and cause blood clots to form .
OHSS may also happen after you stop using MENOPUR .
Stop using MENOPUR and call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any of the following symptoms of OHSS : • severe pelvic or stomach pain • nausea • vomiting • sudden weight gain • swollen stomach • diarrhea • trouble breathing • decreased or no urine • lung problems .
MENOPUR may cause serious lung problems that can sometimes lead to death including fluid in the lungs , trouble breathing , and worsening of asthma .
• blood clots .
MENOPUR may increase your chance of having blood clots in your blood vessels .
Blood clots can cause : • blood vessel problems ( thrombophlebitis ) • stroke • loss of your arm or leg • blood clot in your lung ( pulmonary embolus ) • twisting ( torsion ) of your ovary .
MENOPUR may increase the chance of your ovary twisting , if you already have certain conditions such as OHSS , pregnancy , and previous abdominal surgery .
Twisting of your ovary may lead to blood flow being cut off to your ovary .
• pregnancy with and birth of multiple babies .
MENOPUR may increase your chance of having a pregnancy with more than 1 baby .
Having a pregnancy and giving birth to more than 1 baby at a time increases the health risk for you and your babies .
Your healthcare provider should talk to you about your chances of multiple births before you start using MENOPUR .
• birth defects .
Babies born after ART may have an increased chance of birth defects .
Your age , certain sperm problems , your genetic background , and that of your partner , and a pregnancy with more than 1 baby at a time may increase the chance that your baby may have birth defects .
• ectopic pregnancy ( pregnancy outside your womb ) .
MENOPUR may increase your chance of having a pregnancy that is abnormally outside of your womb .
Your chance of having a pregnancy outside of your womb is increased if you also have fallopian tube problems .
• miscarriage .
Your chance of loss of an early pregnancy may be increased if you had difficulty becoming pregnant .
• tumors of the ovary .
If you have used medicines like MENOPUR more than 1 time to get pregnant , you may have an increased chance of having tumors in your ovaries , including cancer .
The most common side effects of MENOPUR include : • stomach cramps , fullness or pain • headache • injection site swelling , heat , redness and pain These are not all the possible side effects of MENOPUR .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
How should I store MENOPUR ?
• Before mixing , store MENOPUR powder in the refrigerator or at room temperature between 37ºF to 77ºF ( 3ºC to 25ºC ) .
• Protect MENOPUR from light .
• MENOPUR should be used right after mixing .
• Throw away any unused MENOPUR .
Keep MENOPUR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of MENOPUR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use MENOPUR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give MENOPUR to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about MENOPUR .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about MENOPUR that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to www . menopur . com , or call 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) .
What are the ingredients in MENOPUR ?
Active ingredient : menotropins Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , polysorbate , sodium phosphate buffer ( sodium phosphate dibasic , heptahydrate and phosphoric acid ) Instructions for Use MENOPUR ® ( Men - oh - pyoor ) ( menotropins for injection ) for subcutaneous use Your healthcare provider should show you how to mix and inject MENOPUR ® ( menotropins for injection ) or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE ® ( urofollitropin for injection , purified ) before you do it for the first time .
Before using MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE for the first time , read this Instructions for Use carefully .
Keep this leaflet in a safe place and read it when you have questions .
Supplies you will need to give your injection of MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE .
See Figure A . • a clean , flat surface to work on , like a table • vials of MENOPUR powder ( and BRAVELLE powder if you are going to mix the 2 medicines ) • 1 vial of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP used for mixing the medicine • alcohol pads • rubbing alcohol • gauze pads • 1 sterile syringe and 1 sterile needle with cap .
Your healthcare provider should tell you which syringe and needle to use .
• the Q • Cap ® ( vial adapter ) that comes with your medicine • a sharps disposal container for throwing away your used needles and syringes .
See " Disposing of your used needles and syringes " at the end of these instructions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 .
Preparing your MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE .
• Wash your hands well with soap and water and dry them with a clean towel .
• Place all the supplies you need on the clean surface you already prepared .
• Check the vial ( s ) of MENOPUR ( and BRAVELLE if needed ) to make sure there is powder or a pellet in the vial ( s ) .
If you do not see any powder in the vial ( s ) do not use the vial and call your pharmacist or healthcare provider .
• Check the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP vial to make sure that the liquid is clear and does not contain any particles .
If you see any particles in the liquid or the liquid is discolored , do not use the vial and call your pharmacist or healthcare provider .
• Check the Q • Cap blister pack package to make sure it is intact .
Do not use if the package is damaged .
• Remove the plastic cap ( s ) from the vial ( s ) of MENOPUR ( and BRAVELLE if needed ) and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP vial ( s ) .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wipe the tops of the vials with alcohol and allow them to dry .
Do not touch the tops of the vials after you have wiped them .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place the vial of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP on the table .
• Open the Q • Cap blister pack by peeling back the lidding ( See Figure D ) .
Do not take the Q • Cap out of the blister pack at this time .
Do not touch the spike or connector ( luer ) ends of the Q • Cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP vial in 1 hand .
With your other hand , hold the sides of the Q • Cap blister pack , turn the Q • Cap blister pack over , and place it on top of the vial .
Push the Q • Cap straight down into the rubber stopper of the vial until the Q • Cap spike pierces the top of the vial and snaps into place .
See Figure E . • Do not use the Q • Cap if it falls out of the blister pack .
Throw it away and get a new one .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the blister pack and throw it away in your household trash .
Do not touch the connector end ( luer ) of the Q • Cap .
See Figure F . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Take the syringe and pull down on the syringe plunger rod until you have reached the line that corresponds with amount of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP that your healthcare provider told you to use ( typically 1 mL ) .
Air is just being drawn into the syringe at this step .
See Figure G . NOTE : The usual amount of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP used to mix your MENOPUR is 1 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Be very careful not to touch the syringe plunger during this step .
• Place the tip of the syringe into the connector end ( luer ) of the Q • Cap then twist the syringe clockwise until it is tight .
Be careful not to overtighten the syringe .
See Figure H . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Slowly push down on the syringe plunger to push the air from the syringe into the vial .
See Figure I . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Keeping the syringe and Q • Cap together , turn the vial upside down and pull down on the syringe plunger to withdraw the right amount of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP from the vial .
Your healthcare provider should tell you the right amount of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP to use .
See Figure J . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Separate the Q • Cap and syringe from the vial by pulling up on the syringe barrel .
Do not pull the plunger to remove the Q • Cap .
Throw away 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP vial in your household trash .
See Figure K . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the vial of MENOPUR powder in 1 hand .
With your other hand , hold the sides of the syringe with the Q • Cap attached and place the tip of the Q • Cap over the top of the vial .
Push the tip of the Q • Cap into the rubber stopper on the top of the vial until it stops and snaps into place .
Be careful not to push down on the syringe plunger during this step .
See Figure L .
You may see the powder dissolve as the Q • Cap snaps into place , but continue with the steps listed below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Slowly push down on the syringe plunger to push the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP into the vial with the MENOPUR powder in it .
The entire amount of the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP in the syringe should be added .
Gently swirl the vial until the MENOPUR powder is completely dissolved .
Do not shake the vial as this will cause bubbles .
See Figure M . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • As soon as the powdered medicine has completely dissolved , push the plunger down to empty any remaining air from the syringe , then turn the vial upside down and slowly pull down on the plunger to withdraw all of the MENOPUR into the syringe .
See Figure N . • Be careful not to pull the plunger stopper all the way out of the syringe barrel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If your healthcare provider tells you to use more than 1 vial of MENOPUR or tells you to mix your MENOPUR with BRAVELLE in the same syringe : • Mix your first vial of MENOPUR powder or BRAVELLE powder with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP .
Do not inject your dose yet .
• Use the liquid in the syringe you have just mixed to mix the next vial of MENOPUR or BRAVELLE .
See Figures K through M . • You can use the liquid in the syringe to mix up to 5 more vials of medicine .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how many vials of MENOPUR and BRAVELLE to use .
Step 2 .
Removing the Q • Cap and adding your needle for injection .
• When you have finished mixing the last vial needed for your injection and have withdrawn all the medicine into the syringe , remove the syringe from the Q • Cap by twisting the syringe counter - clockwise while holding the Q • Cap steady .
See Figure O . Throw away the Q • Cap with the attached vial into your household trash .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • You are now ready to attach the needle to the syringe for your injection .
Your healthcare provider will tell you what needle you should use for your injection .
• While holding the syringe with the syringe tip pointing up , place the needle on the top of the syringe .
Gently push down on the needle and twist the needle onto the syringe in a clockwise direction until it is tight .
See Figure P . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not remove the needle cap until you are ready for your injection .
( See Step 4 ) • Carefully set the syringe with the needle down on the table .
See Figure Q . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Prepare Injection site for MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE .
• Select a site to inject MENOPUR or MENOPUR mixed with BRAVELLE on your stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• Pick a site on your lower abdomen , 1 - 2 inches below the navel , alternating between left and right sides .
• Each day , inject in a different site to help reduce soreness and skin problems .
For example , on day 1 , inject yourself on the right side of your abdomen .
The next day , inject yourself on the left side of your abdomen .
Changing your injection sites every day will help reduce soreness and skin problems .
See Figure R . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Clean your injection site with an alcohol pad .
Let the alcohol dry .
See Figure S . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Carefully remove the needle cap from the syringe .
See Figure T . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the syringe with the needle pointing straight up .
Pull down slightly on the plunger and tap the barrel of the syringe so that any air bubbles rise to the top .
Slowly press the plunger up until all the air is out of the syringe and a small drop of liquid is seen at the tip of the needle .
See Figure U . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Tap the syringe to remove the small drop of liquid at the tip of the needle .
Do not let the needle touch anything to keep it sterile .
See Figure V . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • The medicine is now ready for you to inject .
See Figure V . Step 4 : Injection • Hold the syringe in 1 hand .
Use your other hand to gently pinch a fold of cleaned skin where you will insert your needle .
Hold the skin between your thumb and index finger .
See Figure W . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold your syringe at a right angle to your skin .
Quickly insert the needle all the way into your skin fold .
See Figure X . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push down the plunger of the syringe with a steady motion .
Keep pushing until all the fluid is injected into your skin .
See Figure Y . [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Let go of your skin fold and pull the needle straight out of your skin .
See Figure Z . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
After your injection .
• If there is any bleeding at your injection site , place a gauze pad over your injection site .
Apply gentle pressure to stop the bleeding .
Do not rub the site .
See Figure AA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If your injection site becomes sore or red , you may put ice on your injection site for 1 minute and then take it off for 3 minutes .
If needed , you may repeat this 3 or 4 times .
Step 6 .
Disposing of your used needles and syringes .
• Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that : • is made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • remains upright and stable during use , • is leak - resistant , and • is properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] MANUFACTURED FOR : FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
PARSIPPANY , NJ 07054 8109000033 Rev : 05 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 55566 - 7501 - 2 Menopur ® 75 IU ( menotropins for injection ) 5 single dose vials of Menotropins for Injection 5 single dose vials of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 2 mL 5 Q • Cap ® Vial Adapters FOR SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION ONLY Rx only Q • Cap ® Vial Adapters for Needle - Free Reconstitution For exclusive use with Ferring reproductive health products FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
