STERILE Rx only DESCRIPTION Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment , USP , is a sterile antimicrobial ointment for ophthalmic use .
Each gram contains : bacitracin zinc equivalent to 500 bacitracin units , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , mineral oil , and white petrolatum .
Bacitracin zinc is the zinc salt of bacitracin , a mixture of related cyclic polypeptides ( mainly bacitracin A ) produced by the growth of an organism of the licheniformis group of Bacillus subtilis var Tracy .
It has a potency of not less than 40 bacitracin units per mg .
The structural formula for bacitracin A is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY A wide range of antibacterial action is provided by the overlapping spectra of bacitracin and polymyxin B sulfate .
Bacitracin is bactericidal for a variety of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
It interferes with bacterial cell wall synthesis by inhibition of the regeneration of phospholipid receptors involved in peptidoglycan synthesis .
Polymyxin B is bactericidal for a variety of gram - negative organisms .
It increases the permeability of the bacterial cell membrane by interacting with the phospholipid components of the membrane .
Microbiology : Bacitracin zinc and polymyxin B sulfate together are considered active against the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci including Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
The product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment is indicated for the topical treatment of superficial infections of the external eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Such infections encompass conjunctivitis , keratitis and keratoconjunctivitis , blepharitis and blepharoconjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment should never be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
Ophthalmic ointments may retard corneal wound healing .
Topical antibiotics may cause cutaneous sensitization .
A precise incidence of hypersensitivity reactions ( primarily skin rash ) due to topical antibiotics is not known .
The manifestations of sensitization to topical antibiotics are usually itching , reddening , and edema of the conjunctiva and eyelid .
A sensitization reaction may manifest simply , as a failure to heal .
During long - term use of topical antibiotic products , periodic examination for such signs is advisable , and the patient should be told to discontinue the product if they are observed .
Symptoms usually subside quickly on withdrawing the medication .
Application of products containing these ingredients should be avoided for the patient thereafter ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use of Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate measures should be initiated .
Bacterial resistance to Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation , or pain become aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of topical ophthalmic products in multiple - dose containers which have been inadvertently contaminated by patients , most of whom has a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
Allergic cross - reactions may occur which could prevent the use of any or all of the following antibiotics for the treatment of future infections : kanamycin , paromomycin , streptomycin , and possibly gentamicin .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , eyelid , fingers , or any other surface .
The use of this product by more than one person may spread infection .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular products , if handled improperly , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated products ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
If the condition persists or gets worse , or if a rash or other allergic reaction develops , the patient should be advised to stop use and consult a physician .
Do not use this product if you are allergic to any of the listed ingredients .
Keep tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or bacitracin .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
No adverse effects on male or female fertility , litter size , or survival were observed in rabbits given bacitracin zinc 100 gm / ton of diet .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects - Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or bacitracin .
It is also not known whether Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti - infective components of Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment .
The exact incidence is not known .
Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching , swelling , and conjunctival erythema ( see WARNINGS ) .
More serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported rarely .
Local irritation on instillation has also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply the ointment every 3 or 4 hours for 7 to 10 days , depending on the severity of the infection .
HOW SUPPLIED Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment , USP , is supplied as follows : NDC 0168 - 0273 - 38 3 . 5 gram tubes Store between 15 ° and 25 ° C ( 59 ° and 77 ° F ) .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
MELVILLE , NEW YORK 11747 I273A R10 / 07 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 3 . 5 g CONTAINER LABEL NDC 0168 - 0273 - 38 FOUGERA ® BACITRACIN ZINC AND POLYMYXIN B SULFATE OPHTHALMIC OINTMENT , USP STERILE Rx only Each gram contains : bacitracin zinc equivalent to 500 bacitracin units , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , mineral oil , and white petrolatum .
NET WT .
3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 Oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 3 . 5 g CARTON NDC 0168 - 0273 - 38 Rx only FOUGERA ® BACITRACIN ZINC AND POLYMYXIN B SULFATE OPHTHALMIC OINTMENT , USP STERILE Each gram contains : bacitracin zinc Equivalent to 500 bacitracin units , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , mineral oil , and white petrolatum .
NET WT .
3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 Oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
