Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine drug having the chemical name 2 - ( diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethylethylamine hydrochloride and has the molecular formula C 17 H 21 NO • HCI ( molecular weight 291 . 82 ) .
It occurs as a white odorless , crystalline powder and is freely soluble in water and alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 5 mL contains 12 . 5 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride and alcohol 14 % for oral administration .
Inactive Ingredients : Citric acid , D & C Red No . 33 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavoring , purified water , sodium citrate , and sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
A single oral dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is quickly absorbed with maximum activity occurring in approximately one hour .
The duration of activity following an average dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is from four to six hours .
Diphenhydramine is widely distributed throughout the body , including the CNS .
Little , if any , is excreted unchanged in the urine ; most appears as the degradation products of metabolic transformation in the liver , which are almost completely excreted within 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the oral form is effective for the following indications : Antihistaminic For allergic conjunctivitis due to foods ; mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema ; amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma ; dermatographism ; as therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled .
Motion Sickness For active and prophylactic treatment of motion sickness .
Antiparkinsonism For parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in the elderly unable to tolerate more potent agents ; mild cases of parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in other age groups ; in other cases of parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in combination with centrally acting anticholinergic agents .
Nighttime Sleep - aid .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use in Neonates or Premature Infants This drug should not be used in neonates or premature infants .
Use in Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally , and for neonates and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions Hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , or bladder - neck obstruction .
Use in Pediatric Patients In pediatric patients , especially , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
As in adults , antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in pediatric patients .
In the young pediatric patient , particularly , they may produce excitation .
Use in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) Antihistamines are most likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS General Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has an atropine - like action and therefore , should be used with caution in patients with a history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease or hypertension .
Use with caution in patients with lower respiratory disease including asthma .
Information for Patients Patients taking diphenhydramine hydrochloride should be advised that this drug may cause drowsiness and has an additive effect with alcohol .
Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Drug Interactions Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) .
MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to determine mutagenic and carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 5 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Diphenhydramine hydrochloride should not be used in neonates and premature infants ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride may diminish mental alertness , or , in the young pediatric patient , cause excitation .
Overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death ( see WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ) .
See also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are underscored .
• General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of the mouth , nose and throat .
• Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
• Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
• Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbedcoordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , neuritis , convulsions .
• GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
• GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
• Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest or throat and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 845 - 8210 of FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in pediatric patients .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms , dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , the patient should be induced to vomit .
This is best done by having him drink a glass of water or milk after which he should be made to gag .
Precaution against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and children .
If vomiting is unsuccessful , gastric lavage is indicated within 3 hours after ingestion and even later if large amounts of milk or cream were given beforehand .
Isotonic or 1 / 2 isotonic saline is the lavage solution of choice .
Saline cathartics , as milk of magnesia , by osmosis draw water into the bowel and therefore are valuable for their action in rapid dilution of bowel content .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
A single oral dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is quickly absorbed with maximum activity occurring in approximately one hour .
The duration of activity following an average dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is from four to six hours .
Adults 25 to 50 mg three to four times daily .
The nightime sleep aid dosage is 50 mg at bedtime .
Pediatric Patients ( over 20 lbs . )
12 . 5 to 25 mg three or four times daily .
Maximum daily dosage not to exceed 300 mg .
For physicians who wish to calculate the dose on the basis of body weight or surface area , the recommended dosage is 5 mg / kg / 24 hours or 150 mg / m2 / 24 hours .
Data are not available on the use of diphenhydramine hydrochloride as a nighttime sleep - aid in children under 12 years .
The basis for determining the most effective dosage regimen will be the response of the patient to medication and the condition under treatment .
In motion sickness , full dosage is recommended for prophylactic use , the first dose to be given 30 minutes before exposure to motion and similar doses before meals and upon retiring for the duration of exposure STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing and light .
HOW SUPPLIED Each 5 mL of Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP ( clear purple / red liquid , cinnamon / anise flavor ) contains 12 . 5 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride with 14 % alcohol and is supplied in the following oral dosage forms : NDC : 0121 - 0489 - 04 : 118 mL ( 4 oz ) bottle NDC 0121 - 0489 - 05 : 5 mL unit dose cup NDC 0121 - 0489 - 00 : Case contains 100 unit dose cups of 5 mL ( 0121 - 0489 - 05 ) packaged in 10 trays of 10 unit dose cups each .
NDC 0121 - 0978 - 10 : 10 mL unit dose cup NDC 0121 - 0978 - 00 : Case contains 100 unit dose cups of 10 mL ( 0121 - 0978 - 10 ) packaged in 10 trays of 10 unit dose cups each .
Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 www . paipharma . com R02 / 20 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Unit Dose Cup Label Delivers 5 mL NDC 0121 - 0489 - 05 DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCl ORAL SOLUTION USP 12 . 5 mg / 5 mL Alcohol 14 % Package Not Child - Resistant Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx ONLY PHARMACEUTICAL ASSOCIATES , INC .
GREENVILLE , SC 29605 SEE INSERT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Unit Dose Cup Label Delivers 10 mL NDC 0121 - 0978 - 10 DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCl ORAL SOLUTION USP 25 mg / 10 mL Alcohol 14 % Package Not Child - Resistant Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx ONLY PHARMACEUTICAL ASSOCIATES , INC .
GREENVILLE , SC 29605 SEE INSERT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL ( 4 oz ) bottle Delivers 118 mL NDC 0121 - 0489 - 04 DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ORAL SOLUTION , USP 12 . 5 mg / 5 mL Each 5 mL ( Teaspoonfull ) contains : Diphenhydramine HCl 12 . 5 mg Alcohol 14 % Rx Only 118 mL PHARMACEUTICAL ASSOCIATES , INC .
GREENVILLE , SC 29605 www . paipharma . com X0489040719 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
