1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Plan B ® One - Step is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
To obtain optimal efficacy , the tablet should be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours of intercourse .
Plan B One - Step is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Plan B One - Step is not indicated for routine use as a contraceptive .
Plan B One - Step is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Plan B One - Step is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Plan B One - Step is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take Plan B One - Step orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
Plan B One - Step can be used at any time during the menstrual cycle .
If vomiting occurs within two hours of taking the tablet , consideration should be given to repeating the dose .
One tablet taken orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The Plan B One - Step tablet is supplied as an almost white , round tablet containing 1 . 5 mg of levonorgestrel and is marked G00 on one side .
1 . 5 mg tablet ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Plan B One - Step is contraindicated for use in the case of known or suspected pregnancy .
Known or suspected pregnancy ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Ectopic pregnancy : Women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Plan B One - Step should be evaluated for ectopic pregnancy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Plan B One - Step is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Effect on menses : Plan B One - Step may alter the next expected menses .
If menses is delayed beyond 1 week , pregnancy should be considered .
( 5 . 3 ) • STI / HIV : Plan B One - Step does not protect against STI / HIV .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Ectopic Pregnancy Ectopic pregnancies account for approximately 2 % of all reported pregnancies .
Up to 10 % of pregnancies reported in clinical studies of routine use of progestin - only contraceptives are ectopic .
A history of ectopic pregnancy is not a contraindication to use of this emergency contraceptive method .
Healthcare providers , however , should consider the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Plan B One - Step .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Plan B One - Step .
5 . 2 Existing Pregnancy Plan B One - Step is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
5 . 3 Effects on Menses Some women may experience spotting a few days after taking Plan B One - Step .
Menstrual bleeding patterns are often irregular among women using progestin - only oral contraceptives and women using levonorgestrel for postcoital and emergency contraception .
If there is a delay in the onset of expected menses beyond 1 week , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
5 . 4 STI / HIV Plan B One - Step does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) or other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
5 . 5 Physical Examination and Follow - up A physical examination is not required prior to prescribing Plan B One - Step .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Plan B One - Step .
5 . 6 Fertility Following Discontinuation A rapid return of fertility is likely following treatment with Plan B One - Step for emergency contraception ; therefore , routine contraception should be continued or initiated as soon as possible following use of Plan B One - Step to ensure ongoing prevention of pregnancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in clinical trials included heavier menstrual bleeding ( 31 % ) , nausea ( 14 % ) , lower abdominal pain ( 13 % ) , fatigue ( 13 % ) , headache ( 10 % ) , and dizziness ( 10 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Barr Laboratories at 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Plan B One - Step was studied in a randomized , double - blinded multicenter clinical trial .
In this study , all women who had received at least one dose of study medication were included in the safety analysis : 1 , 379 women in the Plan B One - Step group , and 1 , 377 women in the Plan B group ( 2 doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart ) .
The mean age of women given Plan B One - Step was 27 years .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was 54 % Chinese , 12 % Other Asian or Black , and 34 % were Caucasian in each treatment group .
1 . 6 % of women in the Plan B One - Step group and 1 . 4 % in Plan B group were lost to follow - up .
The most common adverse events ( > 10 % ) in the clinical trial for women receiving Plan B One - Step included heavier menstrual bleeding ( 30 . 9 % ) , nausea ( 13 . 7 % ) , lower abdominal pain ( 13 . 3 % ) , fatigue ( 13 . 3 % ) , and headache ( 10 . 3 % ) .
Table 1 lists those adverse events that were reported in > 4 % of Plan B One - Step users .
Table 1 .
Adverse Events in > 4 % of Women , by % FrequencyMost Common Adverse Events ( MedDRA ) Plan B One - Step N = 1359 ( % ) Heavier menstrual bleeding 30 . 9 Nausea 13 . 7 Lower abdominal pain 13 . 3 Fatigue 13 . 3 Headache 10 . 3 Dizziness 9 . 6 Breast tenderness 8 . 2 Delay of menses ( > 7 days ) 4 . 5 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Plan B ( 2 doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart ) .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain , Nausea , Vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Nervous System Disorders Dizziness , Headache Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea , Irregular Menstruation , Oligomenorrhea , Pelvic Pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins , and may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with progestin - only pills or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , such as CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Small amounts of progestin pass into the breast milk of nursing women taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
( 8 . 3 ) • Plan B One - Step is not intended for use in premenarcheal ( 8 . 4 ) or postmenopausal females ( 8 . 5 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Many studies have found no harmful effects on fetal development associated with long - term use of contraceptive doses of oral progestins .
The few studies of infant growth and development that have been conducted with progestin - only pills have not demonstrated significant adverse effects .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers In general , no adverse effects of progestin - only pills have been found on breastfeeding performance or on the health , growth , or development of the infant .
However , isolated post - marketing cases of decreased milk production have been reported .
Small amounts of progestins pass into the breast milk of nursing mothers taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of progestin - only pills for long - term contraception have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents less than 17 years and for users 17 years and older .
Use of Plan BOne - Step emergency contraception before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women .
8 . 6 Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race .
However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
There was a non - statistically significant increased rate of pregnancy among Chinese women in the Plan B One - Step trial .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Plan B One - Step .
8 . 8 Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Plan B One - Step .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Levonorgestrel is not a controlled substance .
There is no information about dependence associated with the use of Plan B One - Step .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data on overdosage of Plan B One - Step , although the common adverse event of nausea and associated vomiting may be anticipated .
11 DESCRIPTION The Plan B One - Step tablet contains 1 . 5 mg of a single active steroid ingredient , levonorgestrel [ 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one - 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17 α ) - ( - ) - ] , a totally synthetic progestogen .
The inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch , and talc .
Levonorgestrel has a molecular weight of 312 . 45 , and the following structural and molecular formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Emergency contraceptive pills are not effective if a woman is already pregnant .
Plan BOne - Step is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization ( by altering tubal transport of sperm and / or ova ) .
In addition , it may inhibit implantation ( by altering the endometrium ) .
It is not effective once the process of implantation has begun .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single dose administration of Plan B One - Step in 30 women under fasting conditions , maximum plasma concentrations of levonorgestrel of 19 . 1 ng / mL were reached at 1 . 7 hours .
See Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values Following Single Dose Administration of Plan B One - Step ( levonorgestrel ) tablet 1 . 5 mg to 30 Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUCt ( ng · hr / mL ) [ 1 ] AUCinf ( ng · hr / mL ) null Tmax ( hr ) [ 2 ] t1 / 2 ( hr ) Levonorgestrel 19 . 1 ( 9 . 7 ) 294 . 8 ( 208 . 8 ) 307 . 5 ( 218 . 5 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 0 ) 27 . 5 ( 5 . 6 ) Cmax = maximum concentration AUCt = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to time of last determinable concentration AUCinf = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity Tmax = time to maximum concentration t1 / 2 = elimination half life [ 1 ] N = 29 [ 2 ] median ( range ) Effect of Food : The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel absorption following single oral administration of Plan B One - Step has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg .
It is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate conjugates and , to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16βhydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
Specific Populations Pediatric This product is not intended for use in the premenarcheal population , and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Geriatric This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women , and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race .
However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
There was a non - statistically significant increased rate of pregnancy among Chinese women in the Plan B One - Step trial .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Plan B One - Step .
Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Plan B One - Step .
Drug - Drug Interactions No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Plan B One - Step [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity : There is no evidence of increased risk of cancer with short - term use of progestins .
There was no increase in tumorgenicity following administration of levonorgestrel to rats for 2 years at approximately 5 µg / day , to dogs for 7 years at up to 0 . 125 mg / kg / day , or to rhesus monkeys for 10 years at up to 250 µg / kg / day .
In another 7 year dog study , administration of levonorgestrel at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day did increase the number of mammary adenomas in treated dogs compared to controls .
There were no malignancies .
Genotoxicity : Levonorgestrel was not found to be mutagenic or genotoxic in the Ames Assay , in vitro mammalian culture assays utilizing mouse lymphoma cells and Chinese hamster ovary cells , and in an in vivo micronucleus assay in mice .
Fertility : There are no irreversible effects on fertility following cessation of exposures to levonorgestrel or progestins in general .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double - blind , randomized , multicenter , multinational study evaluated and compared the efficacy and safety of three different regimens for emergency contraception .
Subjects were enrolled at 15 sites in 10 countries ; the racial / ethnic characteristics of the study population overall were 54 % Chinese , 34 % Caucasian , and 12 % Black or Asian ( other than Chinese ) .
2 , 381 healthy women with a mean age of 27 years , who needed emergency contraception within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse were involved and randomly allocated into one of the two levonorgestrel groups .
A single dose of 1 . 5 mg of levonorgestrel ( Plan B One - Step ) was administered to women allocated into group 1 .
Two doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel 12 hours apart ( Plan B ) were administered to women in group 2 .
In the Plan B One - Step group , 16 pregnancies occurred in 1 , 198 women and in the Plan B group , 20 pregnancies occurred in 1 , 183 women .
The number of pregnancies expected in each group was calculated based on the timing of intercourse with regard to each woman ’ s menstrual cycle .
Among women receiving Plan B One - Step , 84 % of expected pregnancies were prevented and among those women taking Plan B , 79 % of expected pregnancies were prevented .
The expected pregnancy rate of 8 % ( with no contraceptive use ) was reduced to approximately 1 % with Plan B One - Step .
Emergency contraceptives are not as effective as routine contraception since their failure rate , while low based on a single use , would accumulate over time with repeated use [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) ] .
In the clinical study , bleeding disturbances were the most common adverse event reported after taking the levonorgestrel - containing regimens .
More than half of the women had menses within two days of the expected time ; however , 31 % of women experienced change in their bleeding pattern during the study period ; 4 . 5 % of women had menses more than 7 days after the expected time .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The Plan B One - Step ( levonorgestrel ) tablet 1 . 5 mg is available in a PVC / aluminum foil blister package .
The tablet is almost white , round , and marked G00 on one side .
NDC 21695 - 973 - 01 ( 1 tablet unit of use package ) Store Plan B One - Step at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Information for Patients • Take Plan B One - Step as soon as possible and not more than 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• If you vomit within two hours of taking the tablet , immediately contact your healthcare provider to discuss whether to take another tablet .
• Seek medical attention if you experience severe lower abdominal pain 3 to 5 weeks after taking Plan B One - Step , in order to be evaluated for an ectopic pregnancy .
• After taking Plan B One - Step , consider the possibility of pregnancy if your period is delayed more than one week beyond the date you expected your period .
• Do not use Plan B One - Step as routine contraception .
• Plan B One - Step is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
• Plan B One - Step does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases / infections .
• For women younger than age 17 years , Plan B One - Step is available only by prescription .
Mfg . by Gedeon Richter , Ltd . , Budapest , Hungary for Duramed Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Pomona , New York 10970 Phone : 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 Website : www . PlanBOneStep . com Revised : August 2009 11001524 Relabeled by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR CLINIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR RESALE .
NDC 21695 - 973 - 01 Plan B One - Step ® ( levonorgestrel ) tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive Reduces the chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a regular birth control method fails or after sex without birth control ) Not for regular birth control .
Rx only for women younger than age 17 One Tablet One Dose • Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it , the better Plan B One - Step ® will work .
1 Tablet Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg • Not for regular birth control .
Plan B One - Step ® should be used only in emergencies .
• Does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs .
Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg ........................ Emergency contraceptive Use reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use ■ if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) ■ for regular birth control When using this product you may have ■ menstrual changes ■ nausea ■ lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain ■ tiredness ■ headache ■ dizziness ■ breast pain ■ vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away .
Directions ■ women 17 years of age or older : ■ take tablet as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
■ if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose ■ prescription only for women younger than age 17 .
If you are younger than age 17 , see a healthcare professional .
Other information ■ before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information ■ this product is not recommended for regular birth control .
It does not work as well as most other birth control methods used correctly .
■ this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
■ when used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of pregnancy and the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
See condom labeling for additional STD information .
■ tablet is enclosed in a blister seal .
Do not use if the blister seal is broken .
■ store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch , talc Questions or comments ?
For more information or to speak to a healthcare professional , call 1 - 800 - 330 - 1271 , 24 hours a day / 7 days a week .
Visit our Web site at www . PlanBOneStep . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
