Active Ingredients : TITANIUM DIOXIDE , ZINC OXIDE Inactive ingredients : Water , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate , Butylene Glycol , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cyclomethicone , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Glycerin , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Butylene Glycol Dicaprylate / Dicaprate , Bis - Ethylhexyloxyphenol Methoxyphenyltriazine , 4 - Methylbenzylidene Camphor , Betaine , Sodium Chloride , Polyglyceryl - 4 - Isostearate , Cetyl Dimethicone , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Dimethicone , Aluminum Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , Zinc Stearate , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Methyl Paraben , Tocopheryl Acetate , Allantoin , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Disodium EDTA , Aluminum Silicate , Zeolite , Topaz , Hematite Extract , Tourmaline , Flavor Purpose : Protects your skin from Ultra - violet Rays .
365 days with Esopinio Sun Shield Plus your skin will be safe .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of reach of children .
Indications and Usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
Please apply it an adequate quantity evenly on face , throat , arms and legs at the last stage of basic makeup .
Please apply it once again on your skin at the time when you ' re going out , sports activity , and any activities of outside .
Dosage and Administration : Take up about 1 . 2 g - 1 . 5 g of it and smooth over the entire face .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
