Rx only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream for dermatologic use contains the antifungal agent nystatin and the synthetic corticosteroid triamcinolone acetonide .
Nystatin is a polyene antimycotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
It is a yellow to light tan powder with a cereal - like odor , very slightly soluble in water , and slightly to sparingly soluble in alcohol .
It has a molecular formula of C47H75NO17 and a molecular weight of 926 . 13 .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triamcinolone acetonide is designated chemically as 9 - fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
The white to cream crystalline powder has a slight odor , is practically insoluble in water , and very soluble in alcohol .
It has a molecular formula of C24H31FO6 and a molecular weight of 434 . 50 .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream is a soft , smooth cream having a light yellow to tan color .
Each gram of nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream USP contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units and 1 mg of triamcinolone acetonide in a cream base containing polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether , white petrolatum , glyceryl monostearate , polyethylene glycol 400 monostearate , sorbitol solution , simethicone emulsion , propylene glycol , aluminum hydroxide gel , polysorbate 60 , titanium dioxide , and purified water with benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : NYSTATIN Nystatin exerts its antifungal activity against a variety of pathogenic and nonpathogenic yeasts and fungi by binding to sterols in the cell membrane .
The binding process renders the cell membrane incapable of functioning as a selective barrier .
Nystatin provides specific anticandidal activity to Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species , but it is not active against bacteria , protozoa , trichomonads , or viruses .
Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membranes .
TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE Triamcinolone acetonide is primarily effective because of its anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions , characteristic of the topical corticosteroid class of drugs .
The pharmacological effects of the topical corticosteroids are well known , however , the mechanisms of their dermatologic actions are unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
NYSTATIN and TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE During clinical studies of mild to severe manifestations of cutaneous candidiasis , patients treated with nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream showed a faster and more pronounced clearing of erythema and pruritis than patients treated with nystatin or triamcinolone acetonide alone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream is indicated for the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis .
It has been demonstrated that the nystatin - steroid combination provides greater benefit than the nystatin component alone during the first few days of treatment .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This preparation is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of thermal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation or hypersensitivity develops with the combination nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for the Patient : Patients using this medicine should receive the following information and instructions .
• 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occluded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 .
When using this medication in the inguinal area , patients should be advised to apply cream sparingly and to wear loose fitting clothing .
• 6 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
• 7 .
Patients should be advised on preventative measures to avoid reinfection .
Laboratory Tests : If there is a lack of therapeutic response , appropriate microbiological studies ( e . g . KOH smears and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens , before instituting another course of therapy .
A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression due to corticosteroid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or possible impairment of fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects — Pregnancy Category C : There are no teratogenic studies with combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Therefore , any topical corticosteroid preparation should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Topical preparations containing corticosteroids should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether any component of this preparation is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised during use of this preparation by a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : In clinical studies of a limited number of pediatric patients ranging in age from 2 months through twelve years , nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream cleared or significantly ameliorated the disease state in most patients .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : A single case ( approximately one percent of patients studied ) of acneiform eruption occured with the use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies .
Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups , even during prolonged use .
Rarely , irritation may occur .
The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in the approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , perioral secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
However , acute overdosage and serious adverse effects with dermatologic use are unlikely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream is usually applied to the affected areas twice daily in the morning and the evening by gently and thoroughly massaging the preparation into the skin .
The cream should be discontinued if symptoms persist after 25 days of therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED : Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream USP , a yellow to tan cream supplied in : 15 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0081 - 15 30 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0081 - 30 60 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0081 - 60 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 I28115I R09 / 13 # 176 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CONTAINER NDC 0168 - 0081 - 15 Fougera ® NYSTATIN and TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE CREAM USP Rx only NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G CARTON NDC 0168 - 0081 - 15 Fougera Rx only NYSTATIN and TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE CREAM USP WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
