Active Ingredients Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses Healthcare Professional handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease ..
Patient preoperative skin preparation : for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery Skin wound and genral skin cleaning Warnings for external use only Do not use • if you are alleric to chlorhexidine gluconate or any ohter ingredient • in contact with meninges • in genital area • as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , an mouth .
Maycause seriously and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when installed in the middle ear thru perforated eardurms .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when the underlying condition makes it necessary to reduce the bacterial population of skin Stop use and ask doctor if • irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away Warning This product contains a chemical known to the State of California to cause Cancer .
Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 ml of product into cupped hands and wahs in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation : • apply product librally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and normal skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol Questions of comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST Package label and principal display panel Preferred Plus Pharmacy NDC 61715 - 072 - 08 Antiseptic Skin Cleanser ( Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % solution ) Antiseptic / Antimicrobial Skin Cleanser for external use only 8 FL OZ .
( 237 mL ) Do no use if seal is broken or missing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
