1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FYARRO ™ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic malignant perivascular epithelioid cell tumor ( PEComa ) .
• FYARRO is an mTOR inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic malignant perivascular epithelioid cell tumor ( PEComa ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage of FYARRO is 100 mg / m 2 administered as an IV infusion over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 21 - day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of FYARRO is 100 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each 21 - day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Table 1 lists the recommended dose reductions of FYARRO for adverse reactions .
Table 1 .
Recommended dose reductions of FYARRO for adverse reactions . Dose Reduction Dose First Dose Reduction 75 mg / m 2 ( 25 % reduction from 100 mg / m 2 ) Second Dose Reduction 56 mg / m 2 ( 25 % reduction from 75 mg / m 2 ) Third Dose Reduction [ 1 ] 45 mg / m 2 ( 20 % reduction from 56 mg / m 2 ) [ 1 ] Permanently discontinue FYARRO in patients who are unable to tolerate FYARRO after three dose reductions .
Table 2 lists the recommended dosage modifications of FYARRO for adverse reactions .
Table 2 .
Recommended FYARRO Dosage Modifications for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severity [ 1 ] Dosage Modifications Stomatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 or 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Restart at the same dose for first occurrence .
• If recurs , restart at reduced dose level .
Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold FYARRO until Hb ≥ 8 g / dL .
• Restart at the same dose level .
Grade ≥ 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Hb ≥ 8 g / dL .
• Restart at the same dose level .
• If recurs , resume at reduced dose level .
Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold FYARRO until platelet count > 100 × 10 9 / L .
• Restart at the same dose level .
Grade ≥ 3 • Withhold FYARRO until platelet count > 100 × 10 9 / L .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
Neutropenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 or 3 • Withhold FYARRO until absolute neutrophil count ≥ 1 . 5 × 10 9 / L .
• Restart at the same dose level .
Grade 4 • Withhold FYARRO until absolute neutrophil count ≥ 1 . 5 × 10 9 / L .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold FYARRO until resolved .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
• If recurs , permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Grade 4 • Withhold FYARRO until resolved .
• Restart at reduced dose level or permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Restart at the same dose level .
• If recurs , restart at reduced dose level .
Grade ≥ 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
• If recurs , permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Grade ≥ 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 2 .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
Interstitial Lung Disease / Non - Infectious Pneumonitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold FYARRO for up to 3 weeks until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Restart at reduced dose level .
• If not resolved to Grade ≤ 1 within 3 weeks , permanently discontinue FYARRO .
• If recurs , permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Grade ≥ 3 • Permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Grade 2 or 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Resume at reduced dose .
• If recurs , permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue FYARRO .
Other Adverse Reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold FYARRO until Grade ≤ 1 .
• Restart at the same dose level .
• If recurs , restart at reduced dose level .
Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue FYARRO .
[ 1 ] Severity based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4 . 03 .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 and / or P - gp Inhibitors and Inducers Reduce the dosage of FYARRO to 56 mg / m 2 when used concomitantly with a moderate or weak cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) inhibitor .
Avoid concomitant use with drugs that are strong CYP3A4 and / or P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) inhibitors and inducers and with grapefruit and grapefruit juice [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Patients with Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage modification of FYARRO in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment is described in Table 3 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Closely monitor patients with hepatic impairment for increased toxicity .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Table 3 .
Recommended FYARRO Dosage in Patients with Mild or Moderate Hepatic ImpairmentHepatic Impairment ( based on NCI criteria ) Dosage Mild ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN , AST > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN , any AST ) 75 mg / m 2 Moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 . 0 × ULN , any AST ) 56 mg / m 2 2 . 5 Preparation and Administration FYARRO is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 FYARRO is supplied as a sterile lyophilized powder for reconstitution before use .
READ ENTIRE PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO RECONSTITUTION .
Preparation : 1 .
Aseptically , reconstitute each vial by injecting 20 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
2 .
Slowly inject the 20 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , over a minimum of 1 minute , using the sterile syringe to direct the solution flow onto the INSIDE WALL OF THE VIAL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
DO NOT INJECT the 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , directly on to the lyophilized powder , which has a cake - like appearance , as this will result in foaming .
4 .
Once the injection is complete , allow the vial to sit for a minimum of 5 minutes to ensure proper wetting of the lyophilized powder .
5 .
Gently swirl and / or invert the vial slowly for at least 2 minutes until complete dissolution of any powder occurs .
Avoid shaking the vial to prevent the generation of foam .
6 .
If foaming or clumping occurs , let suspension stand for at least 15 minutes until foam subsides .
If foaming or clumping is present after one hour , do not use the reconstituted suspension .
Each mL of the reconstituted formulation will contain 5 mg sirolimus .
The reconstituted suspension should be milky and homogenous without visible particulates .
If particulates or settling are visible , the vial should be gently inverted again to ensure complete resuspension prior to use .
Discard the reconstituted suspension if precipitates are observed .
Discard any unused portion .
7 .
Transfer the volume of FYARRO required for the calculated dose into an empty sterile PVC or polyolefin infusion bag for administration without further dilution .
The use of medical devices containing silicone oil as a lubricant ( e . g . , syringes and intravenous bags ) to reconstitute and administer FYARRO may result in the formation of proteinaceous strands .
Visually inspect reconstituted FYARRO suspension in the infusion bag prior to administration .
Discard reconstituted suspension if particulate matter , proteinaceous strands , or discoloration are observed .
Administration : Administer the reconstituted FYARRO suspension intravenously over 30 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 6 Stability Unopened vials of FYARRO are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original package .
Neither freezing nor thawing adversely affects the stability of the product .
Stability of Reconstituted Suspension in the Vial Reconstituted FYARRO in the vial should be used immediately but may be refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for a maximum of 6 hours stored in the original carton to protect it from light .
Discard any unused portion .
Stability of Reconstituted Suspension in the Infusion Bag The suspension for infusion when prepared as recommended in an infusion bag should be used immediately but may be refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) and protected from light for a maximum of 9 hours .
The total maximum combined refrigerated storage time of reconstituted FYARRO in the vial and in the infusion bag is 15 hours .
This may be followed by storage in the infusion bag at ambient temperature ( approximately 25 ° C ) and lighting conditions for a maximum of 4 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injectable suspension : white to yellow , sterile lyophilized powder containing 100 mg of sirolimus formulated as albumin - bound particles in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
• For injectable suspension : lyophilized powder containing 100 mg of sirolimus formulated as albumin - bound particles in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS FYARRO is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity to sirolimus , other rapamycin derivatives , or albumin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• History of severe hypersensitivity to sirolimus , other rapamycin derivatives , or albumin .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Stomatitis : Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 1 ) • Myelosuppression : Monitor blood counts prior to and during FYARRO treatment as clinically indicated .
Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 2 ) • Infections : May result from immunosuppression .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection .
Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypokalemia and hyperglycemia : Monitor serum potassium and glucose prior to starting FYARRO and as clinically indicated .
Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) • ILD / Non - Infectious Pneumonitis : Monitor for new or worsening respiratory symptoms or radiological changes .
Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hemorrhage : Monitor for signs and symptoms .
Withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Monitor for hypersensitivity during and following each FYARRO infusion .
Monitor for at least 2 hours following completion of the first infusion and as clinically indicated for each subsequent infusion .
Reduce the rate , interrupt infusion , or permanently discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 8 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential hazard to the fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 9 ) • Male Infertility : Azoospermia or oligospermia may occur .
( 5 . 10 ) • Immunizations : Avoid live vaccines ( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Stomatitis Stomatitis , including mouth ulcers and oral mucositis , occurred in 79 % of patients treated with FYARRO , including 18 % Grade 3 .
Stomatitis was most often first reported within 8 weeks of treatment .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] 5 . 2 Myelosuppression FYARRO can cause myelosuppression including anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia .
Anemia occurred in 68 % of patients ; 6 % were Grade 3 .
Thrombocytopenia and neutropenia occurred in 35 % of patients each .
Obtain blood counts at baseline and every 2 months for the first year of treatment and every 3 months thereafter , or more frequently if clinically indicated .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Infections FYARRO can cause infections .
Infections such as urinary tract infections ( UTI ) , upper respiratory tract infections and sinusitis occurred in 59 % of patients .
Grade 3 infections occurred in 12 % of patients , including a single case each of a UTI , pneumonia , skin , and abdominal infections .
Monitor patients for infections , including opportunistic infections .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypokalemia FYARRO can cause hypokalemia .
Hypokalemia occurred in 44 % of patients , including 12 % Grade 3 events .
Monitor potassium levels prior to starting FYARRO and implement potassium supplementation as medically indicated .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Hyperglycemia FYARRO can cause hyperglycemia .
Hyperglycemia occurred in 12 % of patients treated with FYARRO , all of which were Grade 3 events .
Monitor fasting serum glucose prior to starting FYARRO .
During treatment , monitor serum glucose every 3 months in non - diabetic patients , or as clinically indicated .
Monitor serum glucose more frequently in diabetic patients .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Interstitial Lung Disease / Non - Infectious Pneumonitis FYARRO can cause interstitial lung disease ( ILD ) / non - infectious pneumonitis .
ILD / non - infectious pneumonitis occurred in 18 % of patients treated with FYARRO , of which all were Grades 1 or 2 .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hemorrhage FYARRO can cause serious and sometimes fatal hemorrhage .
Hemorrhage occurred in 24 % of patients treated with FYARRO , including Grade 3 and Grade 5 events in 2 . 9 % of patients each [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hemorrhage .
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction , withhold , resume at reduced dose , or permanently discontinue FYARRO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Hypersensitivity Reactions FYARRO can cause hypersensitivity reactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactic , angioedema , exfoliative dermatitis and hypersensitivity vasculitis have been observed with administration of the oral formulation of sirolimus .
• Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been observed with human albumin administration .
Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of infusion reactions during and following each FYARRO infusion in a setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation medication and equipment are available .
Monitor patients for at least 2 hours after the first infusion and as clinically needed for each subsequent infusion .
Reduce the rate , interrupt infusion , or permanently discontinue FYARRO based on severity and institute appropriate medical management as needed .
5 . 9 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on animal studies and the mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , FYARRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal studies , mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase ( mTOR ) inhibitors caused embryo - fetal toxicity when administered during the period of organogenesis at maternal exposures that were equal to or less than human exposures at the recommended lowest starting dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant and to use effective contraception while using FYARRO and for 12 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 10 Male Infertility Azoospermia or oligospermia may be observed in patients treated with FYARRO [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
FYARRO is an anti - proliferative drug and affects rapidly dividing cells such as germ cells .
5 . 11 Immunizations and Risks Associated with Live Vaccines No studies in conjunction with immunization have been conducted with FYARRO .
Immunization during FYARRO treatment may be ineffective .
Update immunizations according to immunization guidelines prior to initiating FYARRO , if possible .
Immunization with live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and avoid close contact with those who have received live vaccines while on FYARRO .
The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of FYARRO should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines for patients on immunosuppressive therapies .
5 . 12 Risk of Transmission of Infectious Agents with Human Albumin FYARRO contains human albumin , a derivative of human blood .
Human albumin carries only a remote risk of transmission of viral diseases because of effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes .
A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt - Jakob Disease ( CJD ) also is considered extremely remote .
No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been associated with albumin .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been associated with FYARRO in clinical trials and are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Stomatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) / Non - Infectious Pneumonitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Hemorrhage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most common ( ≥ 30 % ) adverse reactions were stomatitis , fatigue , rash , infection , nausea , edema , diarrhea , musculoskeletal pain , decreased weight , decreased appetite , cough , vomiting , and dysgeusia .
The most common ( ≥ 6 % ) Grade 3 to 4 laboratory abnormalities were decreased lymphocytes , increased glucose , decreased potassium , decreased phosphate , decreased hemoglobin , and increased lipase .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aadi Bioscience , Inc . at 1 - 888 - BIO - AADI ( 888 - 246 - 2234 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of FYARRO was assessed in a single - arm study ( AMPECT ) .
Thirty - four patients received FYARRO 100 mg / m 2 on Days 1 and 8 of 21 - day cycles until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Among the 34 patients who received FYARRO , 16 ( 47 % ) were exposed for 6 months or longer and 7 ( 21 % ) were exposed for greater than 1 year .
The median age of patients who received FYARRO was 59 . 5 years ( range 27 to 78 years ) , 82 % were female and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) Performance Status was 0 ( 76 % ) or 1 ( 24 % ) .
Race was 71 % White , 9 % Black , 9 % Asian , 3 % Hawaiian / Pacific Islander and 9 % Other / Not Reported .
Ethnicity was 82 % not Hispanic or Latino , 15 % Hispanic or Latino , and 3 % Not Reported .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 14 ( 41 % ) patients who received FYARRO .
Serious adverse reactions in > 5 % of patients , including 4 ( 12 % ) patients with infection and 2 ( 6 % ) patients each with abdominal pain , dehydration , and upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 1 ( 2 . 9 % ) patient who received FYARRO and experienced upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
Permanent discontinuation of FYARRO due to an adverse reaction occurred in 3 ( 9 % ) patients .
Adverse reactions which resulted in permanent discontinuation of FYARRO included pneumonitis , anemia , and noninfective cystitis .
Dosage interruptions of FYARRO due to an adverse reaction occurred in 22 ( 65 % ) patients .
Adverse reactions which required dosage interruption in > 5 % of patients included stomatitis in 6 ( 18 % ) patients , pneumonitis in 5 ( 15 % ) patients , anemia in 3 ( 9 % ) patients , and dehydration , dermatitis acneiform , and thrombocytopenia in 2 ( 6 % ) patients each .
Dose reductions of FYARRO due to an adverse reaction occurred in 12 ( 35 % ) patients .
Adverse reactions which required dose reductions in > 5 % of patients included stomatitis and pneumonitis in 3 ( 9 % ) patients each .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 30 % ) were stomatitis in 27 ( 79 % ) patients , fatigue and rash in 23 ( 68 % ) patients each , infection in 20 ( 59 % ) patients , nausea and edema in 17 ( 50 % ) patients each , diarrhea , musculoskeletal pain and decreased weight in 16 ( 47 % ) patients each , decreased appetite in 15 ( 44 % ) patients , cough in 12 ( 35 % ) patients , and vomiting and dysgeusia in 11 ( 32 % ) patients each .
The most common Grade 3 to 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 6 % ) were decreased lymphocytes in 7 ( 21 % ) patients , increased glucose and decreased potassium in 4 ( 12 % ) patients each , decreased phosphate in 3 ( 9 % ) patients , and decreased hemoglobin and increased lipase in 2 ( 6 % ) patients each .
Table 4 summarizes the adverse reactions in AMPECT .
Table 4 .
Adverse Reactions ≥ 10 % in Patients with PEComa Who Received FYARRO in AMPECT FYARRO ( N = 34 ) Adverse Reaction All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 to 4 [ 1 ] ( % ) Gastrointestinal Stomatitis [ 2 ] 79 18 Nausea 50 0 Diarrhea [ 3 ] 47 2 . 9 Vomiting 32 2 . 9 Abdominal Pain [ 4 ] 29 6 Constipation 24 2 . 9 Dry Mouth 15 0 Hemorrhoids 12 0 General disorders Fatigue 68 2 . 9 Edema [ 5 ] 50 2 . 9 Pyrexia 24 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash [ 6 ] 68 0 Alopecia 24 0 Pruritus 18 0 Dry Skin 12 0 Nail disorder 12 0 Infections Infections [ 7 ] 59 12 Metabolism and nutrition Decreased appetite 44 0 Dehydration 15 6 Nervous system Dysgeusia 32 0 Headache 29 0 Peripheral neuropathy [ 8 ] 15 0 Dizziness [ 9 ] 12 0 Investigations Weight decreased 47 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Musculoskeletal pain [ 10 ] 47 2 . 9 Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders Cough [ 11 ] 35 0 Pneumonitis 18 0 Dyspnea [ 12 ] 12 0 Vascular disorders Hypertension 29 2 . 9 Hemorrhage [ 13 ] 24 2 . 9 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 21 2 . 9 Eye disorders Vision blurred 12 0 Grading according to NCI CTCAE Version 4 . 03 [ 1 ] No Grade 4 reactions were reported [ 2 ] Includes stomatitis , aphthous ulcer , mouth ulceration , esophageal ulcer [ 3 ] Includes diarrhea and enteritis [ 4 ] Includes abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , and epigastric discomfort [ 5 ] Includes face edema , generalized edema , edema , edema peripheral , and periorbital edema [ 6 ] Includes dermatitis acneiform , palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , rash , rash erythematous , rash macular , rash maculo - papular , rash papular , rash pruritic , and skin exfoliation [ 7 ] Includes all reported infections , including but not limited to , upper respiratory tract infection , urinary tract infection , sinusitis , skin infection , folliculitis , nasopharyngitis , pharyngitis , pharyngitis streptococcal , pneumonia , vaginal infection [ 8 ] Includes dysesthesia , hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , and peripheral sensory neuropathy [ 9 ] Includes dizziness , dizziness postural , and vertigo [ 10 ] Includes arthralgia , back pain , musculoskeletal chest pain , myalgia , neck pain , non - cardiac chest pain , pain in extremity [ 11 ] Includes cough , productive cough , and upper - airway cough syndrome [ 12 ] Includes dyspnea and dyspnea exertional [ 13 ] Includes epistaxis , hemorrhoidal hemorrhage , mouth hemorrhage , post procedural hemorrhage , and upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
Includes one fatal adverse reaction of upper GI hemorrhage Table 5 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in AMPECT .
Table 5 .
Laboratory Abnormalities ≥ 10 % That Worsened from Baseline in Patients with PEComa who Received FYARRO in AMPECT FYARRO [ 1 ] ( N = 34 ) Laboratory Abnormality [ 2 ] All Grades ( % ) Grades 3 to 4 ( % ) Hematology Decreased lymphocytes 82 21 Decreased hemoglobin 68 6 Decreased leukocytes 41 0 Decreased neutrophils 35 0 Decreased platelets 35 0 Chemistry Increased creatinine 82 0 Increased triglycerides 52 0 Increased cholesterol 48 3 Increased alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) 47 2 . 9 Decreased potassium 44 12 Decreased magnesium 42 0 Decreased albumin 35 2 . 9 Increased aspartate transaminase ( AST ) 32 2 . 9 Increased alkaline phosphatase 29 0 Decreased sodium 24 2 . 9 Decreased calcium 15 0 Decreased glucose 15 0 Decreased phosphate 15 9 Increased lipase 12 6 Increased glucose 12 12 Increased sodium 12 0 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 33 to 34 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
[ 2 ] Grading according to NCI CTCAE Version 4 . 03 Clinically relevant adverse reactions occurring in < 10 % of patients included enteritis , edema , pancytopenia , acute kidney injury , and acute coronary syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4 and / or P - gp Inhibitors or Inducers : Avoid concomitant use .
( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • Moderate or Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Reduce FYARRO dose .
( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on FYARRO CYP3A4 and / or P - gp Inhibitors or Inducers CYP3A4 and / or P - gp inhibitors may increase sirolimus concentrations , which may increase the risk of FYARRO adverse reactions .
CYP3A4 and / or P - gp inducers may decrease sirolimus concentrations , which may reduce FYARRO effectiveness .
• Strong CYP3A4 and / or P - gp Inhibitors or Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of FYARRO with strong CYP3A4 and / or P - gp inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 and / or P - gp inducers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Grapefruit or Grapefruit Juice : Avoid concomitant use of FYARRO with grapefruit or grapefruit juice .
• Moderate or Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Reduce the dosage of FYARRO when used concomitantly with a moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Moderate or Weak CYP3A4 Inducers : Use of FYARRO may result in decreased effectiveness .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Hepatic Impairment : Reduce the dose of FYARRO in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 4 , 8 . 6 ) • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : May impair fertility in females and males .
( 5 . 9 , 5 . 10 , 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal studies and the mechanism of action , FYARRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Although there are no data on the use of FYARRO in pregnant women , there are limited data on the use of sirolimus during pregnancy .
In animal studies , oral sirolimus was embryo / fetotoxic in rats [ see Data ] at sub - therapeutic doses .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproductive studies in animals have not been performed with FYARRO .
Studies with an oral formulation of sirolimus have shown that it crosses the placenta and is toxic to the conceptus .
In rat embryo - fetal development studies , pregnant rats were administered an oral formulation of sirolimus during the period of organogenesis ( Gestational Day 6 - 15 ) .
Sirolimus produced embryo - fetal lethality at 0 . 5 mg / kg and reduced fetal weight at 1 mg / kg .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for fetal toxicity in rats was 0 . 1 mg / kg .
Maternal toxicity ( weight loss ) was observed at 2 mg / kg .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 1 mg / kg .
In rabbit embryo - fetal development studies , pregnant rabbits were administered an oral formulation of sirolimus during the period of organogenesis ( Gestational Day 6 - 18 ) .
There were no effects on embryo - fetal development at doses up to 0 . 05 mg / kg ; however , at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg and above , the ability to sustain a pregnancy was impaired ( i . e . , embryo - fetal abortion or early resorption ) .
Maternal toxicity ( decreased body weight ) was observed at 0 . 05 mg / kg .
The NOAEL for maternal toxicity was 0 . 025 mg / kg .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in rats , pregnant females were dosed with an oral formation of sirolimus during gestation and lactation ( Gestational Day 6 through Lactation Day 20 ) .
An increased incidence of dead pups occurred at 0 . 5 mg / kg , resulting in reduced live litter size .
At 0 . 1 mg / kg , there were no adverse effects on offspring .
Sirolimus did not cause maternal toxicity or affect developmental parameters in the surviving offspring ( e . g . , morphological development , motor activity , learning , or fertility assessment ) at 0 . 5 mg / kg , the highest oral dose tested .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of FYARRO in human milk or its effects on the breastfed child or on milk production .
It is not known whether sirolimus is present in human milk .
There are no data on its effects on the breastfed infant or milk production .
The pharmacokinetic and safety profiles of sirolimus in infants are not known .
Sirolimus is present in the milk of lactating rats .
There is potential for serious adverse effects from sirolimus in breastfed infants based on mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from FYARRO , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with FYARRO and for 2 weeks after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential FYARRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating FYARRO .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FYARRO and for 12 weeks after the last dose .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with FYARRO and for 12 weeks after the last dose .
Infertility Although there are no data on the impact of FYARRO on fertility , based on available clinical findings with oral formulation of sirolimus and findings in animals , male and female fertility may be compromised by the treatment with FYARRO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Ovarian cysts and menstrual disorders ( including amenorrhea and menorrhagia ) have been reported in females with the use of oral formulation of sirolimus .
Azoospermia has been reported in males with the use of oral formulation sirolimus and has been reversible upon discontinuation in most cases .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of FYARRO in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 34 patients treated with FYARRO , 44 % were 65 years of age and older , and 6 % were 75 years of age and older .
Clinical studies of FYARRO did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment FYARRO is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Reduce FYARRO dosage in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION FYARRO ( sirolimus protein - bound particles for injectable suspension ) ( albumin - bound ) is sirolimus formulated as albumin - bound nanoparticles .
The active ingredient in FYARRO is sirolimus bound to albumin which exists in the nanoparticles in a non - crystalline , amorphous state .
Sirolimus is a mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase ( mTOR ) inhibitor .
Sirolimus is a macrocyclic lactone produced by Streptomyces hygroscopicus .
The chemical name of sirolimus is [ 3 S [ 3 R * [ S * ( 1 R * , 3 S * , 4 S * ) ) , 6 S * , 7 E , 9 S * , 10 S * , 12 S * , 14 R * , 15 E , 17 E , 19 E , 21 R * , 23 R * , 26 S * , 27 S * , 3 4 aR * ] ] - 9 , 10 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 34 a - Hexadecahydro - 9 , 27 - dihydroxy 3 - [ 2 - ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxycyclohexyl ) - 1 - methylethyl ] - 10 , 21 - dimethoxy - 6 , 8 , 12 , 14 , 20 , 26 - hexamethyl - 23 , 27 - epoxy - 3 H - pyrido [ 2 , 1 - c ] [ 1 , 4 ] oxaazacyclohentriacontine - 1 , 5 , 11 , 28 , 29 ( 4 H , 6 H , 31 H ) - pentone .
Its empirical formula is C 51 H 79 NO 13 , and the molecular weight is 914 . 2 .
The structural formula of sirolimus is illustrated as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sirolimus is a white to off - white crystalline powder and is insoluble in water but freely soluble in benzyl alcohol , chloroform , acetone , and acetonitrile .
FYARRO is supplied as a white to yellow , sterile , lyophilized powder for reconstitution with 20 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP prior to intravenous infusion .
Each single - dose vial contains 100 mg of sirolimus ( bound to human albumin ) and approximately 850 mg of human albumin ( containing sodium caprylate and sodium acetyltryptophanate ) .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of reconstituted suspension contains 5 mg sirolimus formulated as albumin - bound particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sirolimus in FYARRO is an inhibitor of mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase ( mTOR , previously known as mammalian target of rapamycin ) .
mTOR , a serine threonine kinase , is downstream of the PI3K / AKT pathway , controls key cellular processes such as cell survival , growth , and proliferation , and is commonly dysregulated in several human cancers .
In cells , sirolimus binds to the immunophilin , FK Binding Protein - 12 ( FKBP - 12 ) , to generate an immunosuppressive complex .
The sirolimus - FKBP - 12 complex binds to and inhibits activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORC1 ) .
Inhibition of mTOR by sirolimus has been shown to reduce cell proliferation , angiogenesis , and glucose uptake in in vitro and in vivo studies .
In a nonclinical study in athymic mice bearing human tumor xenografts , intravenous administration of FYARRO resulted in higher tumor accumulation of sirolimus , inhibition of an mTOR target in the tumor , and tumor growth inhibition compared to administration of an oral formulation of sirolimus at the same weekly total dose .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Sirolimus exposure - response relationship has not been fully characterized .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of FYARRO on the QTc interval has not been adequately characterized .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following administration of FYARRO at the recommended dosage , the estimated mean ( % CV ) C max and AUC 0 - inf of sirolimus in patients with advanced solid tumors were 2590 ng / mL ( 30 % CV ) and 22100 ng ∙ h / mL ( 50 % CV ) , respectively .
Distribution The protein binding of sirolimus is > 99 % , primarily to serum albumin in vitro .
Elimination The mean elimination half - life of sirolimus is approximately 59 hours ( 41 % CV ) .
Metabolism Sirolimus is metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Excretion Following a single radiolabeled sirolimus oral dose to human subjects , 91 % and 2 % of the radioactivity was recovered in feces and urine , respectively .
Specific Populations There were no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sirolimus based on age ( 18 to 78 years ) , sex , mild or moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 89 mL / min ) .
The effect of race , severe renal impairment , and hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sirolimus is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies No studies evaluating the drug interaction potential of FYARRO have been conducted .
Sirolimus is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and P - gp .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , mutagenesis , or fertility studies were conducted with FYARRO .
Carcinogenicity studies have been conducted in mice and rats with an oral formulation of sirolimus .
In an 86 - week female mouse study , there was a statistically significant increase in malignant lymphoma at all dose levels compared with controls .
In a second mouse study , hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma in males were considered sirolimus - related .
In a 104 - week rat study , there were no significant findings .
Sirolimus was not genotoxic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , a Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay , a mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , or an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
When female rats were treated by gavage with an oral formulation of sirolimus and mated to untreated males , female fertility was decreased at 0 . 5 mg / kg due to decreased implantation .
In addition , reduced ovary and uterus weight were observed .
The NOAEL for female rat fertility was 0 . 1 mg / kg .
When male rats were treated by gavage with an oral formulation of sirolimus and mated to untreated females , male fertility was decreased at 2 mg / kg .
Atrophy of testes , epididymides , prostate , seminiferous tubules , and reduced sperm counts were observed .
The NOAEL for male rat fertility was 0 . 5 mg / kg .
Testicular tubular degeneration was also seen in a 4 - week intravenous study of sirolimus in monkeys at 0 . 1 mg / kg .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Perivascular Epithelioid Cell Tumor ( PEComa ) The efficacy of FYARRO was assessed in AMPECT ( NCT02494570 ) , a multi - center , single - arm clinical trial in 31 patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic malignant PEComa .
Patients were required to have measurable disease at baseline , centrally confirmed diagnosis by pathology of malignant PEComa , and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) Performance Status ( PS ) of 0 or 1 .
Patients with lymphangioleiomyomatosis and prior treatment with a mechanistic target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) inhibitor were excluded .
Patients received FYARRO at a dose of 100 mg / m 2 on Days 1 and 8 of 21 - day cycles until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
The efficacy population of 31 patients had the following demographic characteristics : median age 60 years ( range 34 to 78 ) , female ( 81 % ) , White ( 74 % ) , Black ( 10 % ) , and ECOG PS of 0 ( 81 % ) .
Five ( 16 % ) patients had locally advanced disease and 26 ( 84 % ) had metastatic disease .
Ninety - four percent of patients had prior surgery , 19 % had prior radiation therapy , and 13 % had prior systemic therapy .
The major efficacy outcome measures were overall response rate ( ORR ) and duration of response ( DOR ) as assessed by blinded independent central review ( BICR ) using RECIST v . 1 . 1 .
The efficacy results are summarized in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Efficacy Results in AMPECTEfficacy Endpoints FYARRO ( N = 31 ) Overall Response Rate ( 95 % CI ) [ 1 ] 39 % ( 22 % , 58 % ) Duration of Response ( DOR ) ( N = 12 ) Median ( 95 % CI ) in months NR ( 6 . 5 , NE ) Range in months 5 . 6 , 55 . 5 [ 2 ] % with duration ≥ 6 months 92 % % with duration ≥ 12 months 67 % % with duration ≥ 24 months 58 % CI = Confidence Interval ; NR = Not Reached ; NE = Not Estimable [ 1 ] All responses were initially partial responses .
Two patients with partial response converted to complete response during the follow up - period .
[ 2 ] Denotes ongoing responses 15 REFERENCES 1 .
OSHA Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA .
https : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FYARRO ( sirolimus protein - bound particles for injectable suspension ) ( albumin - bound ) is a white to yellow , sterile lyophilized powder supplied as : NDC 80803 - 153 - 50 , 100 mg of sirolimus in a single - dose vial .
Each carton contains 1 vial .
Store the vials in the original cartons at 2 ° to 8 ° C [ USP Refrigerated Temperature ] ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Retain in the original package to protect from light .
FYARRO is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Stomatitis Advise patients of the risk of stomatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Myelosuppression Advise patients of the risk of myelosuppression and the need to monitor blood counts periodically during therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Infections Advise patients that they are more susceptible to infections and that they should immediately report any signs or symptoms of infection to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypokalemia Advise patients of the risk of hypokalemia and the need to monitor potassium periodically during therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia Advise patients of the risk of hyperglycemia and the need to monitor glucose periodically during therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Interstitial Lung Disease / Non - Infectious Pneumonitis Advise patients of the risk of developing non - infectious pneumonitis and to immediately report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Hemorrhage Advise patients of the risk of hemorrhage .
Instruct patients to report signs of bleeding , and to seek immediate medical attention for signs or symptoms of severe bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients of the risk of clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions and to promptly contact their healthcare provider or seek emergency care for signs of hypersensitivity reaction including rash , itching , hives , difficulty breathing or swallowing , flushing , chest pain , or dizziness [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 12 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 12 weeks after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk for impaired fertility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Immunizations Advise patients that vaccinations may be less effective while being treated with FYARRO .
Advise patients to avoid the use of live vaccines , and close contact with those who have received live vaccines , while on FYARRO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with FYARRO and for 2 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider about all concomitant medications , including prescription medicine , over the counter drugs , vitamins , and herbal products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Inform patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while taking FYARRO .
This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . aadibio . com .
Manufactured for Aadi Bioscience , Inc . , Pacific Palisades , CA 90272 .
FYARRO is a trademark of Aadi Bioscience , Inc .
Patent : www . aadibio . com / patents / PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 80803 - 153 - 50 Rx Only Fyarro ™ sirolimus protein - bound particles for injectable suspension ( albumin - bound ) 100 mg per vial For intravenous infusion Single - dose vial Discard any unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
