1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Eletriptan is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults .
Eletriptan is a serotonin ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist ( triptan ) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Use only after a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with eletriptan , reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before eletriptan is administered to treat any subsequent attacks .
• Eletriptan is not intended for the prevention of migraine attacks .
• Safety and effectiveness of eletriptan have not been established for cluster headache .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The maximum recommended single dose is 40 mg .
In controlled clinical trials , single doses of 20 mg and 40 mg were effective for the acute treatment of migraine in adults .
A greater proportion of patients had a response following a 40 mg dose than following a 20 mg dose [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
If the migraine has not resolved by 2 hours after taking eletriptan , or returns after transient improvement , a second dose may be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 80 mg .
The safety of treating an average of more than 3 migraine attacks in a 30 - day period has not been established .
• Single dose : 20 mg or 40 mg ( 2 ) • Maximum single dose : 40 mg ( 2 ) • May repeat dose after 2 hours if needed ; not to exceed 80 mg in any 24 - hour period ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 20 mg Tablets : Orange , round , convex shaped , film - coated , with " PFIZER " and " REP20 " debossed .
40 mg Tablets : Orange , round , convex shaped , film - coated , with " PFIZER " and " REP40 " debossed .
Tablets : 20 mg and 40 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with : • Ischemic coronary artery disease ( CAD ) ( angina pectoris , history of myocardial infarction , or documented silent ischemia ) or coronary artery vasospasm , including Prinzmetal ' s angina [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• History of stroke , transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) , or history or current evidence of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Peripheral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Recent use ( i . e . , within 24 hours ) of another 5 - hydroxytryptamine1 ( 5 - HT1 ) agonist , ergotamine - containing medication , or ergot - type medication such as dihydroergotamine ( DHE ) or methysergide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to eletriptan ( angioedema and anaphylaxis seen ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Recent use ( i . e . , within at least 72 hours ) of the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , or nelfinavir [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• History of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) • Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) • History of stroke , transient ischemic attack , or history or current evidence of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) • Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) • Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) • Within 24 hours of treatment with another 5 - HT1 agonist , or an ergotamine - containing medication ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to eletriptan ( angioedema and anaphylaxis seen ) ( 4 ) • Within at least 72 hours of treatment with the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , or nelfinavir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Eletriptan should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established .
• Myocardial ischemia / infarction or Prinzmetal ' s angina : Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors ( 5 . 1 ) • Arrhythmias : Discontinue eletriptan if occurs ( 5 . 2 ) • Chest / throat / neck / jaw pain , tightness , pressure , or heaviness : Generally not myocardial ischemia ; evaluate high risk patients for CAD ( 5 . 3 ) • Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , or stroke : Discontinue eletriptan if occurs ( 5 . 4 ) • Gastrointestinal ischemia or infarction events , or peripheral vasospastic reactions : Discontinue eletriptan if occurs ( 5 . 5 ) • Medication overuse headache : Detoxification may be necessary ( 5 . 6 ) • Serotonin syndrome : Discontinue eletriptan if occurs ( 5 . 7 , 7 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Myocardial Ischemia , Myocardial Infarction , and Prinzmetal ' s Angina Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD .
There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions , including acute myocardial infarction , occurring within a few hours following administration of eletriptan .
Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD .
Eletriptan may cause coronary artery vasospasm ( Prinzmetal ' s angina ) , even in patients without a history of CAD .
Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan - naïve patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors ( e . g . , increased age , diabetes , hypertension , smoking , obesity , strong family history of CAD ) prior to receiving eletriptan .
Do not use eletriptan if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation , consider administering the first eletriptan dose in a medically - supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) immediately following administration of eletriptan .
For such patients , consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long - term users of eletriptan .
5 . 2 Arrhythmias Life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5 - HT1 agonists .
Discontinue eletriptan if these disturbances occur .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Chest , Throat , Neck and / or Jaw Pain / Tightness / Pressure Sensations of tightness , pain , and pressure in the chest , throat , neck , and jaw commonly occur after treatment with eletriptan and are usually non - cardiac in origin .
However , perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with CAD or Prinzmetal ' s variant angina [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , and stroke have occurred in patients treated with 5 - HT1 agonists , and some have resulted in fatalities .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , the 5 - HT1 agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine , when they were not .
Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs , and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine , other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Other Vasospasm Reactions Eletriptan may cause non - coronary vasospastic reactions , such as peripheral vascular ischemia , gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction ( presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea ) , and Raynaud ' s syndrome .
In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5 - HT1 agonist , rule out a vasospastic reaction before receiving additional eletriptan doses [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs ( e . g . ergotamine , triptans , opioids , or combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month ) may lead to exacerbation of headache ( medication overuse headache ) .
Medication overuse headache may present as migraine - like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks .
Detoxification of patients , including withdrawal of the overused acute migraine drugs and treatment of withdrawal symptoms ( which often includes a transient worsening of headache ) may be necessary .
5 . 7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with eletriptan , particularly during co - administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , and monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication .
Discontinue eletriptan if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
5 . 8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure , including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems , has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5 - HT1 agonists , including patients without a history of hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with eletriptan .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Anaphylactic / Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid , and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving eletriptan .
Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal .
In general , anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to eletriptan [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the prescribing information : • Myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction , and Prinzmetal ' s angina [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Chest , throat , neck , and / or jaw pain / tightness / pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Cerebrovascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Other vasospasm reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Medication overuse headache [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Increase in blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and > placebo ) were asthenia , nausea , dizziness , and somnolence .
These reactions appear to be dose - related .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Among 4 , 597 patients who treated the first migraine headache with eletriptan in short - term placebo - controlled trials , the most common adverse reactions reported with treatment with eletriptan were asthenia , nausea , dizziness , and somnolence .
These reactions appear to be dose - related .
In long - term open - label studies where patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks for up to 1 year , 128 ( 8 . 3 % ) out of 1 , 544 patients discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in the subset of 5 , 125 migraineurs who received eletriptan doses of 20 mg , 40 mg and 80 mg or placebo in worldwide placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Only adverse reactions that were more frequent in an eletriptan treatment group compared to the placebo group with an incidence greater than or equal to 2 % are included in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Incidence in Placebo - Controlled Migraine Clinical Trials : Reactions Reported by ≥ 2 % Patients Treated with Eletriptan and More Than PlaceboAdverse Reaction Type Placebo ( n = 988 ) Eletriptan 20 mg ( n = 431 ) Eletriptan 40 mg ( n = 1774 ) Eletriptan 80 mg ( n = 1932 ) ATYPICAL SENSATIONS Paresthesia 2 % 3 % 3 % 4 % Flushing / feeling of warmth 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 % PAIN AND PRESSURE SENSATIONS Chest – tightness / pain / pressure 1 % 1 % 2 % 4 % Abdominal – pain / discomfort / stomach pain / cramps / pressure 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % DIGESTIVE Dry mouth 2 % 2 % 3 % 4 % Dyspepsia 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Dysphagia – throat tightness / difficulty swallowing 0 . 2 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Nausea 5 % 4 % 5 % 8 % NEUROLOGICAL Dizziness 3 % 3 % 6 % 7 % Somnolence 4 % 3 % 6 % 7 % Headache 3 % 4 % 3 % 4 % OTHER Asthenia 3 % 4 % 5 % 10 % The frequency of adverse reactions in clinical trials did not increase when up to 2 doses of eletriptan were taken within 24 hours .
The incidence of adverse reactions in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender , age , or race of the patients .
Adverse reaction frequencies were also unchanged by concomitant use of drugs commonly taken for migraine prophylaxis ( e . g . , SSRIs , beta blockers , calcium channel blockers , tricyclic antidepressants ) , estrogen replacement therapy or oral contraceptives .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reaction ( s ) have been identified during post approval use of eletriptan .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Neurological : seizure Digestive : vomiting 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Ergot - Containing Drugs Including Other 5 - HT1B / 1 D Agonists Ergot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine [ DHE ] or methysergide ) and eletriptan within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated .
Concomitant use of other 5 - HT1 agonists within 24 hours of eletriptan treatment is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors significantly increase the exposure of eletriptan .
Eletriptan should not be used within at least 72 hours of treatment with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co - administration of triptans and SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs and MAO inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available human data on the use of eletriptan in pregnant women are not sufficient to draw conclusions about drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal studies , oral administration of eletriptan during pregnancy or throughout pregnancy and lactation was associated with developmental toxicity ( decreased fetal and pup weights , increased incidences of fetal structural abnormalities , decreased pup viability ) at clinically - relevant doses [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
The reported rate of major birth defects among deliveries to women with migraine ranged from 2 . 2 % to 2 . 9 % and the reported rate of miscarriage was 17 % , which were similar to rates reported in women without migraine .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk : Several studies have suggested that women with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy .
Data Human Data A study using linked data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway to the Norwegian Prescription Database compared pregnancy outcomes in women who redeemed prescriptions for triptans during pregnancy , as well as a migraine disease comparison group who redeemed prescriptions for triptans before pregnancy only .
Of the 189 women who redeemed prescriptions for eletriptan during the first trimester , 4 ( 2 . 1 % ) had infants with major congenital malformations , while for the 174 women who redeemed prescriptions for eletriptan before , but not during , pregnancy , 11 ( 6 . 3 % ) had infants with major congenital malformations .
Methodological limitations of this study , including small size of the eletriptan population and infrequent events , do not allow for thorough characterization of risk .
Animal Data When pregnant rats were administered eletriptan ( 0 , 10 , 30 , or 100 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis , fetal weights were decreased and the incidences of vertebral and sternebral variations were increased at 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 80 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The 30 and 100 mg / kg / day doses were also maternally toxic , as evidenced by decreased maternal body weight gain during gestation .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rats was 30 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
When eletriptan ( 0 , 5 , 10 , or 50 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis , fetal weights were decreased at 50 mg / kg / day .
The incidences of fused sternebrae and vena cava deviations were increased at all doses .
Maternal toxicity was not evident at any dose .
A no - effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development in rabbits was not established ; the lowest dose tested ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is similar to the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral administration of eletriptan ( 0 , 5 , 15 , or 50 mg / kg / day ) to female rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in a decrease in offspring viability and body weight at the highest dose tested .
The no - effect dose for adverse effects on pre - and postnatal development in rats ( 15 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Eletriptan is excreted in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of eletriptan on the breastfed infant or the effects of eletriptan on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for eletriptan and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from eletriptan or from the underlying maternal condition .
Infant exposure can be minimized by avoiding breastfeeding for 24 hours after treatment .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
The efficacy of eletriptan tablets ( 40 mg ) in patients 11 – 17 was not established in a randomized , placebo - controlled trial of 274 adolescent migraineurs [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse reactions observed were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
Postmarketing experience with other triptans includes a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced clinically serious adverse reactions that are similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
Long - term safety of eletriptan was studied in 76 adolescent patients who received treatment for up to one year .
A similar profile of adverse reactions to that of adults was observed .
The long - term safety of eletriptan in pediatric patients has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Blood pressure was increased to a greater extent in elderly subjects than in young subjects .
The pharmacokinetic disposition of eletriptan in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In clinical trials , there were no apparent differences in efficacy or the incidence of adverse reactions between patients under 65 years of age and those 65 and above .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The effect of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism has not been evaluated .
Eletriptan is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The elimination half - life of eletriptan is about 4 hours [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , therefore monitoring of patients after overdose with eletriptan should continue for at least 20 hours or longer while symptoms or signs persist .
There is no specific antidote to eletriptan .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentration of eletriptan .
11 DESCRIPTION Eletriptan tablets contain eletriptan hydrobromide , which is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine 1 B / 1 D ( 5 - HT1B / 1 D ) receptor agonist .
Eletriptan hydrobromide is chemically designated as ( R ) - 3 - [ ( 1 - Methyl - 2 - pyrrolidinyl ) methyl ] - 5 - [ 2 - ( phenylsulfonyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - indole monohydrobromide , and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C22H26N2O2S .
HBr , representing a molecular weight of 463 . 43 .
Eletriptan hydrobromide is a white to light pale colored powder that is readily soluble in water .
Each eletriptan tablet for oral administration contains 24 . 2 or 48 . 5 mg of eletriptan hydrobromide equivalent to 20 mg or 40 mg of eletriptan , respectively .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose NF , lactose monohydrate NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , magnesium stearate NF , titanium dioxide USP , hypromellose , triacetin USP and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Eletriptan binds with high affinity to 5 - HT1B , 5 - HT1D and 5 - HT1F receptors , has modest affinity for 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT1E , 5 - HT2B and 5 - HT7 receptors .
Migraines are likely due to local cranial vasodilatation and / or to the release of sensory neuropeptides ( vasoactive intestinal peptide , substance P and calcitonin gene - related peptide ) through nerve endings in the trigeminal system .
The therapeutic activity of eletriptan for the treatment of migraine headache is thought to be due to the agonist effects at the 5 - HT1B / 1 D receptors on intracranial blood vessels ( including the arterio - venous anastomoses ) and sensory nerves of the trigeminal system which result in cranial vessel constriction and inhibition of pro - inflammatory neuropeptide release .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Eletriptan is well absorbed after oral administration with peak plasma levels occurring approximately 1 . 5 hours after dosing to healthy subjects .
In patients with moderate to severe migraine the median Tmax is 2 . 0 hours .
The mean absolute bioavailability of eletriptan is approximately 50 % .
The oral pharmacokinetics are slightly more than dose - proportional over the clinical dose range .
The AUC and Cmax of eletriptan are increased by approximately 20 to 30 % following oral administration with a high fat meal .
Eletriptan can be taken with or without food .
Distribution : The volume of distribution of eletriptan following IV administration is 138 L .
Plasma protein binding is moderate and approximately 85 % .
Metabolism : The N - demethylated metabolite of eletriptan is the only known active metabolite .
This metabolite causes vasoconstriction similar to eletriptan in animal models .
Though the half - life of the metabolite is estimated to be about 13 hours , the plasma concentration of the N - demethylated metabolite is 10 – 20 % of parent drug and is unlikely to contribute significantly to the overall effect of the parent compound .
In vitro studies indicate that eletriptan is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P - 450 enzyme CYP3A4 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Elimination : The terminal elimination half - life of eletriptan is approximately 4 hours .
Mean renal clearance ( CLR ) following oral administration is approximately 3 . 9 L / h .
Non - renal clearance accounts for about 90 % of the total clearance .
Specific Populations Age : The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are generally unaffected by age .
Blood pressure was increased to a greater extent in elderly subjects than in young subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetic disposition of eletriptan in the elderly is similar to that seen in younger adults .
There is a statistically significant increased half - life ( from about 4 . 4 hours to 5 . 7 hours ) between elderly ( 65 to 93 years of age ) and younger adult subjects ( 18 to 45 years of age ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Gender : The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are unaffected by gender .
Race : A comparison of pharmacokinetic studies run in western countries with those run in Japan has indicated an approximate 35 % reduction in the exposure of eletriptan in Japanese male volunteers compared to western males .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of two clinical studies indicates no evidence of pharmacokinetic differences between Caucasians and non - Caucasian patients .
Menstrual Cycle : In a study of 16 healthy females , the pharmacokinetics of eletriptan remained consistent throughout the phases of the menstrual cycle .
Renal Impairment : There was no significant change in clearance observed in subjects with mild , moderate or severe renal impairment , though blood pressure elevations were observed in this population [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : Subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment demonstrated an increase in both AUC ( 34 % ) and half - life .
The Cmax was increased by 18 % .
No dose adjustment is necessary in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
The effects of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism have not been evaluated [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies CYP3A4 inhibitors : In vitro studies have shown that eletriptan is metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme .
A clinical study demonstrated about a 3 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 6 - fold increase in the AUC of eletriptan when combined with ketoconazole .
The half - life increased from 5 hours to 8 hours and the Tmax increased from 2 . 8 hours to 5 . 4 hours .
Another clinical study demonstrated about a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 4 - fold increase in AUC when erythromycin was co - administered with eletriptan .
It has also been shown that co - administration of verapamil and eletriptan yields about a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 3 - fold increase in AUC of eletriptan , and that co - administration of fluconazole and eletriptan yields about a 1 . 4 - fold increase in Cmax and about a 2 - fold increase in AUC of eletriptan .
Eletriptan is contraindicated within at least 72 hours of treatment with the following potent CYP3A4 inhibitors : ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir and nelfinavir .
Eletriptan should not be used within 72 hours with drugs that have demonstrated potent CYP3A4 inhibition [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Propranolol : The Cmax and AUC of eletriptan were increased by 10 and 33 % , respectively , in the presence of propranolol .
No interactive increases in blood pressure were observed .
No dosage adjustment appears to be needed for patients taking propranolol .
The effect of eletriptan on other drugs : The effect of eletriptan on enzymes other than cytochrome P450 has not been investigated .
In vitro human liver microsome studies suggest that eletriptan has little potential to inhibit CYP1A2 , 2C9 , 2E1 and 3A4 at concentrations up to 100 µM .
While eletriptan has an effect on CYP2D6 at high concentration , this effect should not interfere with metabolism of other drugs when eletriptan is used at recommended doses .
There is no in vitro or in vivo evidence that clinical doses of eletriptan will induce drug metabolizing enzymes .
Therefore , eletriptan is unlikely to cause clinically important drug interactions mediated by these enzymes .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Eletriptan was administered to rats and mice in the diet for 104 weeks .
In rats , the incidence of testicular interstitial cell adenomas was increased at the high dose of 75 mg / kg / day , but not at 15 mg / kg / day , a dose associated with plasma exposures ( AUC ) approximately 2 times that in humans at the MRHD of 80 mg / day .
In mice , the incidence of hepatocellular adenomas was increased at the high dose of 400 mg / kg / day , but not a dose of 90 mg / kg / day , associated with plasma AUC approximately 7 times that in humans at the MRHD .
Mutagenesis Eletriptan was negative in in vitro ( bacteria reverse mutation ( Ames ) , mammalian cell gene mutation ( CHO / HGPRT ) , chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) assays .
Impairment of Fertility In a fertility and early embryonic development study , eletriptan ( 50 , 100 , or 200 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to male and female rats prior to and throughout mating and continuing in females to implantation .
Plasma exposures ( AUC ) were 4 , 8 and 16 times in males and 7 , 14 and 28 times in females , respectively , that in humans at the MRHD .
Prolongation of the estrous cycle and decreases in the number of corpora lutea , implants , and viable fetuses per dam were observed at 200 mg / kg / day .
Male fertility parameters were not affected .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of eletriptan in the acute treatment of migraines was evaluated in eight randomized , double - blind placebo - controlled studies .
All eight studies used 40 mg .
Seven studies evaluated an 80 mg dose and two studies included a 20 mg dose .
In all eight studies , randomized patients treated their headaches as outpatients .
Seven studies enrolled adults and one study enrolled adolescents ( age 11 to 17 ) .
Patients treated in the seven adult studies were predominantly female ( 85 % ) and Caucasian ( 94 % ) with a mean age of 40 years ( range 18 to 78 ) .
In all studies , patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain , was assessed up to 2 hours after dosing .
Associated symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , photophobia and phonophobia were also assessed .
Maintenance of response was assessed for up to 24 hours post dose .
In the adult studies , a second dose of eletriptan or other medication was allowed 2 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for both persistent and recurrent headaches .
The incidence and time to use of these additional treatments were also recorded .
In the seven adult studies , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving eletriptan at all doses compared to those who received placebo .
The two - hour response rates from these controlled clinical studies are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Percentage of Patients with Headache Response ( Mild or No Headache ) 2 Hours Following Treatment Placebo Eletriptan 20 mg Eletriptan 40 mg Eletriptan 80 mg NA - Not Applicable Study 1 23 . 8 % ( n = 126 ) 54 . 3 % [ 1 ] ( n = 129 ) 65 . 0 % null ( n = 117 ) 77 . 1 % null ( n = 118 ) Study 2 19 . 0 % ( n = 232 ) NA 61 . 6 % null ( n = 430 ) 64 . 6 % null ( n = 446 ) Study 3 21 . 7 % ( n = 276 ) 47 . 3 % null ( n = 273 ) 61 . 9 % null ( n = 281 ) 58 . 6 % null ( n = 290 ) Study 4 39 . 5 % ( n = 86 ) NA 62 . 3 % null ( n = 175 ) 70 . 0 % null ( n = 170 ) Study 5 20 . 6 % ( n = 102 ) NA 53 . 9 % null ( n = 206 ) 67 . 9 % null ( n = 209 ) Study 6 31 . 3 % ( n = 80 ) NA 63 . 9 % null ( n = 169 ) 66 . 9 % null ( n = 160 ) Study 7 29 . 5 % ( n = 122 ) NA 57 . 5 % null ( n = 492 ) NA [ 1 ] p value < 0 . 05 vs placebo Comparisons of the performance of different drugs based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are generally conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response within 2 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Estimated Probability of Initial Headache Response Within 2 Hours [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Figure 1 shows the Kaplan - Meier plot of probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with eletriptan .
The plot is based on 7 placebo - controlled , outpatient trials in adults providing evidence of efficacy ( Studies 1 through 7 ) .
Patients not achieving headache response or taking additional treatment prior to 2 hours were censored at 2 hours .
For patients with migraine - associated photophobia , phonophobia , and nausea at baseline , there was a decreased incidence of these symptoms following administration of eletriptan as compared to placebo .
Two to 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain relief in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of taking a second dose or other medications for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 : Estimated Probability of Taking a Second Dose / Other Medication Over the 24 Hours Following the First Dose [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] This Kaplan - Meier plot is based on data obtained in 7 placebo - controlled trials in adults ( Studies 1 through 7 ) .
Patients were instructed to take a second dose of study medication as follows : a ) in the event of no response at 2 hours ( studies 2 and 4 – 7 ) or at 4 hours ( study 3 ) ; b ) in the event of headache recurrence within 24 hours ( studies 2 – 7 ) .
Patients not using additional treatments were censored at 24 hours .
The plot includes both patients who had headache response at 2 hours and those who had no response to the initial dose .
It should be noted that the protocols did not allow re - medication within 2 hours post dose .
The efficacy of eletriptan was unaffected by the duration of attack , gender or age of the patient , relationship to menses , or concomitant use of estrogen replacement therapy / oral contraceptives or frequently used migraine prophylactic drugs .
In a single study in adolescents ( n = 274 ) , there were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups .
The headache response rate at 2 hours was 57 % for both eletriptan 40 mg Tablets and placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Eletriptan hydrobromide tablets containing 20 mg or 40 mg eletriptan ( base ) as the hydrobromide salt .
Eletriptan hydrobromide tablets are orange , round , convex shaped , film - coated tablets with appropriate debossing .
They are supplied in the following strengths and package configurations : Eletriptan TabletsPackage Configuration Tablet Strength ( mg ) NDC Code Debossing Blister of 6 tablets 20 mg 59762 - 2321 - 1 REP20 and Pfizer Blister of 6 tablets 40 mg 59762 - 2322 - 1 REP40 and Pfizer Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction , Prinzmetal ' s Angina , Other Vasospastic Reactions , and Cerebrovascular Events Inform patients that eletriptan may cause serious cardiovascular adverse reactions such as myocardial infarction or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious cardiovascular reactions can occur without warning symptoms , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and instruct them to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Instruct patients to seek medical advice if they have symptoms of other vasospastic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , and 5 . 8 ) ] .
Anaphylactic / Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients that anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving eletriptan .
Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal .
In general , anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Medication Overuse Headache Inform patients that use of drugs to treat acute migraines for 10 or more days per month may lead to an exacerbation of headache , and encourage patients to record headache frequency and drug use ( e . g . , by keeping a headache diary ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Inform patients about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of eletriptan or other triptans , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Inform patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0777 - 2 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information Eletriptan hydrobromide Tablets Please read this information before you start taking eletriptan and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about eletriptan ?
Eletriptan can cause serious side effects , including : Heart attack and other heart problems .
Heart problems may lead to death .
Stop taking eletriptan and get emergency medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms of a heart attack : • discomfort in the center of your chest that lasts for more than a few minutes , or that goes away and comes back • chest pain or chest discomfort that feels like an uncomfortable heavy pressure , squeezing , fullness , or pain • pain or discomfort in your arms , back , neck , jaw , or stomach • shortness of breath with or without chest discomfort • breaking out in a cold sweat • nausea or vomiting • feeling lightheaded Eletriptan is not for people with risk factors for heart disease unless a heart exam is done and shows no problem .
You have a higher risk for heart disease if you : • have high blood pressure • have high cholesterol levels • smoke • are overweight • have diabetes • have a family history of heart disease • are a female who has gone through menopause • are a male over age 40 Serotonin syndrome .
Serotonin syndrome is a serious and life - threatening problem that can happen in people taking eletriptan , especially if eletriptan is taken with anti - depressant medicines called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • mental changes such as seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , agitation , or coma • fast heartbeat • changes in blood pressure • high body temperature • tight muscles • trouble walking • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea What is eletriptan ?
Eletriptan is a prescription medicine used to treat acute migraine headaches with or without aura in adults .
Eletriptan is for people who have been diagnosed with migraine headaches .
Eletriptan is not used to prevent or decrease the number of migraine headaches you have .
It is not known if eletriptan is safe and effective to treat cluster headaches .
It is not known if eletriptan is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take eletriptan ?
Do not take eletriptan if you : • have heart problems or a history of heart problems • have or have had a stroke or problems with your blood circulation • have hemiplegic or basilar migraines .
If you are not sure if you have these types of migraines , ask your doctor • have narrowing of the blood vessels in your legs , arms , stomach , or kidney ( peripheral vascular disease ) • have ischemic bowel disease • have uncontrolled high blood pressure • have taken any of the following medicines in the last 24 hours : • other " triptans " or triptan combination products such as : • almotriptan ( Axert ® ) • frovatriptan ( Frova ® ) • naratriptan ( Amerge ® ) • rizatriptan ( Maxalt ® ) • sumatriptan ( Imitrex ® ) • sumatriptan and naproxen sodium , ( Treximet ® ) • zolmitriptan ( Zomig ® ) • ergotamines such as : • Bellergal - S ® • Ergomar ® • Cafergot ® • Wigraine ® • dihydroergotamines such as : • D . H . E . 45 ® or Migranal ® or methysergide ( Sansert ® ) • have taken the following medicines within the last 72 hours : • ketoconazole ( Nizoral ® ) • itraconazole ( Sporanox ® ) • nefazodone ( Serzone ® ) • troleandomycin ( TAO ® ) • clarithromycin ( Biaxin ® ) • ritonavir ( Norvir ® ) • nelfinavir ( Viracept ® ) • are allergic to eletriptan or any of the ingredients in eletriptan .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in eletriptan .
What should I tell my doctor before taking eletriptan ?
Before you take eletriptan , tell your doctor if you : • have heart problems or family history of heart problems or stroke • have high blood pressure • have high cholesterol • have diabetes • smoke • are overweight • are a female who has gone through menopause • have kidney problems • have liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if eletriptan will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Eletriptan passes into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take eletriptan .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Your doctor will decide if you can take eletriptan with your other medicines .
Eletriptan and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take anti - depressant medicines called : • selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) • serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take eletriptan ?
• Take eletriptan exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor will tell you how much eletriptan to take and when to take it .
• Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
Do not change your dose without first talking to your doctor .
• Take 1 eletriptan tablet as soon as you feel a migraine coming on .
• If you do not get any relief after your first eletriptan tablet , do not take a second tablet without first talking with your doctor .
• If your headache comes back or you only get some relief from your headache , you can take a second tablet 2 hours after the first tablet .
• Do not take more than a total of 80 mg of eletriptan tablets in a 24 - hour period .
• If you take too much eletriptan , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• You should write down when you have headaches and when you take eletriptan so you can talk to your doctor about how well eletriptan is working for you .
What should I avoid while taking eletriptan ?
Eletriptan can cause dizziness , weakness , or drowsiness .
If you have these symptoms , do not drive a car , use machinery , or do anything where you need to be alert .
What are the possible side effects of eletriptan ?
Eletriptan may cause serious side effects .
See " What is the most important information I should know about eletriptan ? "
These serious side effects include : • changes in color or sensation in your fingers and toes ( Raynaud ' s syndrome ) • stomach and intestinal problems ( gastrointestinal and colonic ischemic events ) .
Symptoms of gastrointestinal and colonic ischemic events include : • sudden or severe stomach pain • stomach pain after meals • weight loss • nausea or vomiting • constipation or diarrhea • bloody diarrhea • fever • problems with blood circulation to your legs and feet ( peripheral vascular ischemia ) .
Symptoms of peripheral vascular ischemia include : • cramping and pain in your legs or hips • feeling of heaviness or tightness in your leg muscles • burning or aching pain in your feet or toes while resting • numbness , tingling , or weakness in your legs • cold feeling or color changes in 1 or both legs or feet • medication overuse headaches .
Some people who take too many eletriptan may have worse headaches ( medication overuse headache ) .
If your headaches get worse , your doctor may decide to stop your treatment with eletriptan .
The most common side effects of eletriptan include : • dizziness • nausea • weakness • tiredness • drowsiness Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of eletriptan .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store eletriptan ?
• Store eletriptan at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
General information about the safe and effective use of eletriptan Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use eletriptan for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give eletriptan to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about eletriptan .
If you would like more information about eletriptan , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information on eletriptan that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to http : / / www . greenstonellc . com or call 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 .
What are the ingredients in eletriptan ?
Active ingredient : eletriptan hydrobromide Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , hypromellose , triacetin , and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
All brands are trademarks of their owners .
This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . greenstonellc . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
LAB - 0778 - 2 . 0 Revised March 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Blister Pack 20 mg eletriptan eletriptan HBr Tablet Greenstone LLC LOT : XXXXXXX EXP : YYYY MMM TO REMOVE TABLET 1 .
SEPARATE ALONG PERFORATION 2 .
PEEL BACK PAPER AT ARROW 3 .
PUSH TABLET THROUGH FOIL PAA108708 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 59762 - 2321 - 1 6 tablets 1 card x six 20 mg tablets GREENSTONE ® BRAND eletriptan HBr 20 mg * Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Blister Pack 40 mg eletriptan eletriptan HBr Tablet Greenstone LLC LOT : XXXXXXX EXP : YYYY MMM TO REMOVE TABLET 1 .
SEPARATE ALONG PERFORATION 2 .
PEEL BACK PAPER AT ARROW 3 .
PUSH TABLET THROUGH FOIL PAA108709 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 59762 - 2322 - 1 6 tablets 1 card x six 40 mg tablets GREENSTONE ® BRAND eletriptan HBr 40 mg * Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
