Active Ingredients Each one gram contains : Lactic acid 167 mg and salicylic acid 167 mg .
Composition Excipients : Alcohol , Hydroxypropyl Cellulose .
Properties Cornex is a topical gel for the removal of warts and corns .
Indications Cornex is used to remove Warts and Corns .
A wart is a viral infection of the skin surface layer .
The incubation period varies from a few weeks to several months .
Warts can be spread by contact of the virus with damaged skin , particularly if warm and moist .
This is why one of the most common sources of infection is swimming pools .
Corns are hard , thick pads of skin caused by pressure and friction .
They usually occur on the feet due to poorly fitting shoes .
They can also occur on hands .
Cornex Gel is suitable for use by adults , children and the elderly .
Contraindications Cornex is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to lactic acid and / or salicylic acid or to any other components of this product .
Do not use Cornex if you are diabetic or suffer from poor blood circulation to your hands or feet .
Precautions Cornex is formulated for the controlled corrosion of keratin and thus care should be taken to apply the product to the wart only .
Avoid applying it to normal surrounding skin .
Do not use Cornex on the face , mucous membranes or anogenital reagions .
Cornex is not recommended for use in infants under 2 years of age .
Children under 12 years should only use the product under supervision .
Precaution As well all the medicines you should keep Cornex out of reach of children .
Drug Interactions No interaction betyween Lactic acid and Salicylic acid and other drugs or substances are known or suspected .
Warnings Remember that warts are infectious .
To prevent the infection spreading to others always keep to your own towel .
Do not walk about barefoot if warts are on the soles of your feet .
Be patient , it can take 6 to 12 weeks to completely remove the wart .
Do not use Cornex on moles , brithmarks or unusual skin growths or near eyes or on mucous membranes .
Avoid use on broken or inflamed skin .
Dosage and Administration Remove any plaster and soak the wart in hot water for five minutes .
Dry with your own towel .
Rub the surface of the warts carefully with a pumice stone or emery board .
Apply Cornex daily to the warts .
Use only enough Cornex to cover the warts and avoid applying to the surrounding normal skin .
Allow Cornex to dry and cover with plaster if the wart is large or on foot .
Continue using Cemex daily until the wart is completely cleared and the ridge lines of the skin have been restored .
Side Effects Avoid use on large areas of skin ; as this may result in absorption of sufficient quantities to cause adverse effects .
Storage Store below 30 " C . How supplied 15 g packs .
Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
