Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken or damaged skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Contents under pressure - do not puncture or incinirate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 0 F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated areas • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Blue 1 ( CI 42090 ) , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Polyester - 8 , Red 40 ( CI 16035 ) , SD Alcohol 40 - B , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Yellow 5 ( CI 19140 ) , Water ( aqua ) Other information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun • avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Can Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exotic Blend # 1 Fragrance 15 Continuous Spray Sunscreen with instant Bronzer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) Australian Gold 177 mL / 6 Fl .
Oz [ MULTIMEDIA ]
