Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Fexofenadine HCl 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : ▪ running nose ▪ itchy , watery eyes ▪ sneezing ▪ itching of the nose or throat Warnings : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product ▪ Do not take more than directed ▪ Do not take at the same time as aluminium or magnesium antacids ▪ Do not take with fruit juices ( See Directions ) ▪ Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
▪ If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
▪ Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : ▪ Adults and children 12 years of age and over : take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 table in 24 hours ▪ Children under 12 years of age : do not use ▪ Adults 65 years of age and older : ask a doctor ▪ Consumers with kidney disease : ask a doctor Other information : • Safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if printed foil inner seal on bottle is torn or missing • Store between 68 ° and 77 ° F ( 20 ° and 25 ° C ) • Protect from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , red iron oxide , stearic acid , titanium dioxide and yellow iron oxide .
Questions ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 578 - 6288 / www . hi - healthcare . com CLINICALLY PROVEN AND DOCTOR RECOMMENDED Non - Drowsy INDOOR / OUTDOOR ALLERGY RELIEF • Sneezing • Itchy , Watery eyes • Runny Nose • Itchy Nose or Throat 24 HOURS Manufactured by : A FDA Registered Facility Distributed by : HI - HEALTHCARE ( USA ) , INC .
Fremont , CA 94539 proudly made in the u . s . a Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
