Uses can be used instead of soap and water to help clean minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
• For the temporary relief of discomfort and pain associated with dermal procedures such as tattoo removal , tattoo , dermarolling , electrolysis , microblading and piercing .
• Temporarily relieves pain and itch while helping prevent infection Directions • Shake Well before each use .
Apply 2 to 3 pumps of foam soap and gently rub into skin .
Leave it on for 5 to 10 minutes .
Rinse off gently with running water or wipe with a clean paper towel .
Use before , during and after the procedure .
Keep bottle tightened to keep product fresh and effective .
Adults and children 2 years old and older .
Use to clean minor cuts , scrapes and burns by thoroughly washing with water .
Rinse and air dry .
Use no more than 3 times a day .
• Children under two years of age , ask a doctor Directions for Use were added .
For external use only • avoid contact with eyes • do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor Do not use • in the eyes or apply to large areas of body • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor • in large quantities particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas • ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns Stop Use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Inactive Ingredients : Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe ) Powder , Arnica Montana ( Arnica ) Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Cocoamidopropyl Betaine , Deionized Water , Disdoium Cocoamphodiacetate , Glycerin , Hexylene Glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Chloride .
Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Questions ?
574 - 975 - 3632 Active Ingredient Lidocaine HCL 4 % Purpose Topical anesthetic First aid antiseptic ELECTRUM NUMB FOAM FOAMING ANESTHETIC Directions Shake well before each use .
Apply 2 to 3 pumps of foam soap and gently rub into skin .
Leave it on for 5 to 10 minutes .
Rinse off gently with running water or wipe with a clean paper towel .
Use before , during and after the procedure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
