Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrogen peroxide 3 % ( stabilized ) Purpose first aid antiseptic / Oral debriding agent Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings for external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash or fever develops Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions First aid antiseptic : • clean the affected area • apply small amount of product on the affected area 1 to 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first Oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : adults and children 2 years of age and over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out • use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or a doctor Other Information Keep tightly closed and at a controlled room temperature .
Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive Ingredient Purified Water Distributed by : Omega & Delta Co . , Inc .
Carolina , P . R . 00984 Principal Display Panel DOP HYDROGEN PEROXIDE ( AGUA OXIGENADA ) 3 % Topical Solution U . S . P . First Aid Antiseptic • For Treatment of Minor Cuts and Abrasions • For Use as a Gargle or Rinse Do not use if safety seal is broken or missing .
16 FL . OZ .
( 1 PT ) 473 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
