Desoxyn ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets , USP ) Rxonly [ MULTIMEDIA ] METHAMPHETAMINE HAS A HIGH POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE .
PARTICULAR ATTENTION SHOULD BE PAID TO THE POSSIBILITY OF SUBJECTS OBTAINING METHAMPHETAMINE FOR NON - THERAPEUTIC USE OR DISTRIBUTION TO OTHERS , AND THE DRUG SHOULD BE PRESCRIBED OR DISPENSED SPARINGLY .
MISUSE OF METHAMPHETAMINE MAY CAUSE SUDDEN DEATH AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR ADVERSE EVENTS .
DESCRIPTION DESOXYN ® ( methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets , USP ) , chemically known as ( S ) - N , α - dimethylbenzeneethanamine hydrochloride , is a member of the amphetamine group of sympathomimetic amines .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESOXYN tablets contain 5 mg of methamphetamine hydrochloride for oral administration .
Inactive Ingredients : Corn starch , lactose , sodium paraminobenzoate , stearic acid and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY Methamphetamine is a sympathomimetic amine with CNS stimulant activity .
Peripheral actions include elevation of systolic and diastolic blood pressures and weak bronchodilator and respiratory stimulant action .
Other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may be involved , for example .
The mechanism of action involved in producing the beneficial behavioral changes seen in hyperkinetic children receiving methamphetamine is unknown .
In humans , methamphetamine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The primary site of metabolism is in the liver by aromatic hydroxylation , N - dealkylation and deamination .
At least seven metabolites have been identified in the urine .
The biological half - life has been reported in the range of 4 to 5 hours .
Excretion occurs primarily in the urine and is dependent on urine pH . Alkaline urine will significantly increase the drug half - life .
Approximately 62 % of an oral dose is eliminated in the urine within the first 24 hours with about one - third as intact drug and the remainder as metabolites .
INDICATIONSANDUSAGE Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity : DESOXYN tablets are indicated as an integral part of a total treatment program which typically includes other remedial measures ( psychological , educational , social ) for a stabilizing effect in children over 6 years of age with a behavioral syndrome characterized by the following group of developmentally inappropriate symptoms : moderate to severe distractibility , short attention span , hyperactivity , emotional lability , and impulsivity .
The diagnosis of this syndrome should not be made with finality when these symptoms are only of comparatively recent origin .
Nonlocalizing ( soft ) neurological signs , learning disability , and abnormal EEG may or may not be present , and a diagnosis of central nervous system dysfunction may or may not be warranted .
CONTRAINDICATIONS In patients known to be hypersensitive to amphetamine , or other components of DESOXYN .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other amphetamine products ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , or within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ) , because of an increased risk of hypertensive crisis ( see WARNINGSand DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
It is also contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , advanced arteriosclerosis , symptomatic cardiovascular disease , moderate to severe hypertension , hyperthyroidism or known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to sympathomimetic amines .
Methamphetamine should not be given to patients who are in an agitated state or who have a history of drug abuse .
WARNINGS SeriousCardiovascularEvents Sudden Deathand Pre - existingStructuralCardiac Abnormalities or Other Serious Heart Problems : • Children and Adolescents : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
Although some serious heart problems alone carry an increased risk of sudden death , stimulant products generally should not be used in children or adolescents with known serious structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , or other serious cardiac problems that may place them at increased vulnerability to the sympathomimetic effects of a stimulant drug .
• Adults : Sudden deaths , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults taking stimulant drugs at usual doses for ADHD .
Although the role of stimulants in these adult cases is also unknown , adults have a greater likelihood than children of having serious structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , or other serious cardiac problems .
Adults with such abnormalities should also generally not be treated with stimulant drugs .
Hypertension and other Cardiovascular Conditions : Stimulant medications cause a modest increase in average blood pressure ( about 2 - 4 mmHg ) and average heart rate ( about 3 - 6 bpm ) , and individuals may have larger increases .
While the mean changes alone would not be expected to have short - term consequences , all patients should be monitored for larger changes in heart rate and blood pressure .
Caution is indicated in treating patients whose underlying medical conditions might be compromised by increases in blood pressure or heart rate , e . g . , those with pre - existing hypertension , heart failure , recent myocardial infarction , or ventricular arrhythmia .
Assessing Cardiovascular Status in Patients being Treated with Stimulant Medications : Children , adolescents , or adults who are being considered for treatment with stimulant medications should have a careful history ( including assessment for a family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia ) and physical exam to assess for the presence of cardiac disease , and should receive further cardiac evaluation if findings suggest such disease ( e . g . , electrocardiogram and echocardiogram ) .
Patients who develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease during stimulant treatment should undergo a prompt cardiac evaluation .
PsychiatricAdverseEvents Pre - existing Psychosis : Administration of stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Bipolar Illness : Particular care should be taken in using stimulants to treat ADHD in patients with comorbid bipolar disorder because of concern for possible induction of a mixed / manic episode in such patients .
Prior to initiating treatment with a stimulant , patients with comorbid depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
Emergence of New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms : Treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms , e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania in children and adolescents without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania can be caused by stimulants at usual doses .
If such symptoms occur , consideration should be given to a possible causal role of the stimulant , and discontinuation of treatment may be appropriate .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies , such symptoms occurred in about 0 . 1 % ( 4 patients with events out of 3482 exposed to methylphenidate or amphetamine for several weeks at usual doses ) of stimulant - treated patients compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
Aggression : Aggressive behavior or hostility is often observed in children and adolescents with ADHD , and has been reported in clinical trials and the postmarketing experience of some medications indicated for the treatment of ADHD .
Although there is no systematic evidence that stimulants cause aggressive behavior or hostility , patients beginning treatment for ADHD should be monitored for the appearance of or worsening of aggressive behavior or hostility .
Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Careful follow - up of weight and height in children ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated children over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated children ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Published data are inadequate to determine whether chronic use of amphetamines may cause a similar suppression of growth , however , it is anticipated that they likely have this effect as well .
Therefore , growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , and patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
Seizures : There is some clinical evidence that stimulants may lower the convulsive threshold in patients with prior history of seizures , in patients with prior EEG abnormalities in absence of seizures , and , very rarely , in patients without a history of seizures and no prior EEG evidence of seizures .
In the presence of seizures , the drug should be discontinued .
Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon : Stimulants , including DESOXYN , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
SerotoninSyndrome Serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening reaction , may occur when amphetamines are used in combination with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , triptans , tricyclic antidepressants , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , tryptophan , buspirone , and St . John ’ s Wort ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Amphetamines and amphetamine derivatives are known to be metabolized , to some degree , by cytochrome P450 2D6 ( CYP2D6 ) and display minor inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism ( seeCONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
The potential for a pharmacokinetic interaction exists with the co - administration of CYP2D6 inhibitors which may increase the risk with increased exposure to DESOXYN .
In these situations , consider an alternative nonserotonergic drug or an alternative drug that does not inhibit CYP2D6 ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ) .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Concomitant use of DESOXYN with MAOI drugs is contraindicated ( seeCONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Discontinue treatment with DESOXYN and any concomitant serotonergic agents immediately if the above symptoms occur , and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment .
If concomitant use of DESOXYN with other serotonergic drugs or CYP2D6 inhibitors is clinically warranted , initiate DESOXYN with lower doses , monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome during drug initiation or titration , and inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome .
Visual Disturbance : Difficulties with accommodation and blurring of vision have been reported with stimulant treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General : DESOXYN tablets should be used with caution in patients with even mild hypertension .
Methamphetamine should not be used to combat fatigue or to replace rest in normal persons .
Prescribing and dispensing of methamphetamine should be limited to the smallest amount that is feasible at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Information for Patients : The patient should be informed that methamphetamine may impair the ability to engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as , operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Circulationproblemsinfingersandtoes [ Peripheralvasculopathy , includingRaynaud ’ s phenomenon ] • Instruct patients beginning treatment with DESOXYN about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking DESOXYN .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
The patient should be cautioned not to increase dosage , except on advice of the physician .
Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with methamphetamine and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide is available for DESOXYN .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is available at https : / / keytx . com . / Drug Interactions : Insulin requirements in diabetes mellitus may be altered in association with the use of methamphetamine and the concomitant dietary regimen .
Methamphetamine may decrease the hypotensive effect of guanethidine .
DESOXYN should not be used concurrently with monoamineoxidaseinhibitors ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Concurrent administration of tricyclic antidepressants and indirect - acting sympathomimetic amines such as the amphetamines , should be closely supervised and dosage carefully adjusted .
Phenothiazines are reported in the literature to antagonize the CNS stimulant action of the amphetamines .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Literature reports suggest that amphetamines may be associated with significant elevation of plasma corticosteroids .
This should be considered if determination of plasma corticosteroid levels is desired in a person receiving amphetamines .
AcidifyingAgents Lower blood levels and efficacy of amphetamines .
Increase dose based on clinical response .
Examples of acidifying agents include gastrointestinal acidifying agents ( e . g . , guanethidine , reserpine , glutamic acid HCl , ascorbic acid ) and urinary acidifying agents ( e . g . , ammonium chloride , sodium acid phosphate , methenamine salts ) .
AlkalinizingAgents Increase blood levels and potentiate the action of amphetamine .
Co - administration of DESOXYN and gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents should be avoided .
Examples of alkalinizing agents include gastrointestinal alkalinizing agents ( e . g . , sodium bicarbonate ) and urinary alkalinizing agents ( e . g . , acetazolamide , some thiazides ) .
Tricyclic Antidepressants May enhance the activity of tricyclic or sympathomimetic agents causing striking and sustained increases in the concentration of d - amphetamine in the brain ; cardiovascular effects can be potentiated .
Monitor frequently and adjust or use alternative therapy based on clinical response .
Examples of tricyclic antidepressants include desipramine , Protriptyline .
CYP2D6Inhibitors The concomitant use of DESOXYN and CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase the exposure of DESOXYN compared to the use of the drug alone and increase the risk of serotonin syndrome .
Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome particularly during DESOXYN initiation and after a dosage increase .
If serotonin syndrome occurs , discontinue DESOXYN and the CYP2D6 inhibitor ( see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE ) .
Examples of CYP2D6 Inhibitors include paroxetine and fluoxetine ( also serotonergic drugs ) , quinidine , ritonavir .
SerotonergicDrugs The concomitant use of DESOXYN and serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome .
Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome , particularly during DESOXYN initiation or dosage increase .
If serotonin syndrome occurs , discontinue DESOXYN and the concomitant serotonergic drug ( s ) ( see WARNINGSand PRECAUTIONS ) .
Examples of serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRI ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRI ) , triptans , tricyclic antidepressants , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , tryptophan , buspirone , St . John ’ s Wort .
MAOInhibitors Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure .
Do not administer DESOXYN concomitantly or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI ( see CONTRAINDICATIONSandWARNINGS ) .
Examples of MAOIs include selegiline , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , linezolid , methylene blue .
ProtonPump Inhibitors Time to maximum concentration ( Tmax ) of amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone .
Monitor patients for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response .
An example of a proton pump inhibitor is omeprazole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Data are not available on long - term potential for carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C . Methamphetamine has been shown to have teratogenic and embryocidal effects in mammals given high multiples of the human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
DESOXYN tablets should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic effects : Infants born to mothers dependent on amphetamines have an increased risk of premature delivery and low birth weight .
Also , these infants may experience symptoms of withdrawal as demonstrated by dysphoria , including agitation and significant lassitude .
UsageinNursingMothers : Amphetamines are excreted in human milk .
Mothers taking amphetamines should be advised to refrain from nursing .
Long - term effects of methamphetamine in children have not been established ( see WARNINGS ) .
Drug treatment is not indicated in all cases of the behavioral syndrome characterized by moderate to severe distractibility , short attention span , hyperactivity , emotional lability and impulsivity .
It should be considered only in light of the complete history and evaluation of the child .
The decision to prescribe DESOXYN tablets should depend on the physician ’ s assessment of the chronicity and severity of the child ’ s symptoms and their appropriateness for his / her age .
Prescription should not depend solely on the presence of one or more of the behavioral characteristics .
When these symptoms are associated with acute stress reactions , treatment with DESOXYN tablets is usually not indicated .
Clinical experience suggests that in psychotic children , administration of DESOXYN tablets may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder .
Amphetamines have been reported to exacerbate motor and phonic tics and Tourette ’ s syndrome .
Therefore , clinical evaluation for tics and Tourette ’ s syndrome in children and their families should precede use of stimulant medications .
Geriatric Use : Clinical Studies of DESOXYN did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 years and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy observed in this population .
ADVERSEREACTIONS The following are adverse reactions in decreasing order of severity within each category that have been reported : Cardiovascular : Elevation of blood pressure , tachycardia and palpitation .
Fatal cardiorespiratory arrest has been reported , mostly in the context of abuse / misuse .
Central Nervous System : Psychotic episodes have been rarely reported at recommended doses .
Dizziness , dysphoria , overstimulation , euphoria , insomnia , tremor , restlessness and headache .
Exacerbation of motor and phonic tics and Tourette ’ s syndrome .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , constipation , dryness of mouth , unpleasant taste and other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Hypersensitivity : Urticaria .
Endocrine : Impotence and changes in libido ; frequent or prolonged erections .
Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis .
Miscellaneous : Suppression of growth has been reported with the long - term use of stimulants in children ( seeWARNINGS ) .
SkinandSubcutaneousTissue Disorders : Alopecia .
ToreportSUSPECTEDADVERSEREACTIONS , contact KeyTherapeutics , LLC . at1 - 888 - 981 - 8337 or FDAat1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 orwww .
fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUGABUSEANDDEPENDENCE ControlledSubstance : DESOXYN tablets are subject to control under DEA schedule II .
Abuse : Methamphetamine has been extensively abused .
Tolerance , extreme psychological dependence , and severe social disability have occurred .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage to many times that recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with methamphetamine include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity , and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
Abuse and / or misuse of methamphetamine have resulted in death .
Fatal cardiorespiratory arrest has been reported in the context of abuse and / or misuse of methamphetamine .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of amphetamine overdose include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , panic states , hyperpyrexia and rhabdomyolysis .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central nervous system stimulation .
Serotonin syndrome has also been reported .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmias , hypertension or hypotension and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Fatal poisoning is usually preceded by convulsions and coma .
Treatment Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center for up to date guidance and advice .
DOSAGEAND ADMINISTRATION DESOXYN tablets are given orally .
Methamphetamine should be administered at the lowest effective dosage , and dosage should be individually adjusted .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the resulting insomnia .
Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity : For treatment of children 6 years or older with a behavioral syndrome characterized by moderate to severe distractibility , short attention span , hyperactivity , emotional lability and impulsivity : an initial dose of 5 mg DESOXYN once or twice a day is recommended .
Daily dosage may be raised in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals until an optimum clinical response is achieved .
The usual effective dose is 20 to 25 mg daily .
The total daily dose may be given in two divided doses daily .
Where possible , drug administration should be interrupted occasionally to determine if there is a recurrence of behavioral symptoms sufficient to require continued therapy .
HOWSUPPLIED DESOXYN ( methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets , USP ) is supplied as white tablets imprinted with the letter R on one side and the number 12 on the opposite side , containing 5 mg methamphetamine hydrochloride in bottles of 100 ( NDC 70868 - 820 - 05 ) .
Recommended Storage : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Dispense in a USP tight , light resistant container .
Manufactured for : Key Therapeutics , LLC . , Flowood , MS 39232 , U . S . A .
This product label may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . keytx . com / products . com Revised : July 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Desoxyn ® ( Pronounced Dĕ - sŏks - ĭn ) ( methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets , USP ) Read the Medication Guide that comes with DESOXYN ® before you or your child starts taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your or your child ’ s doctor about your or your child ' s treatment with DESOXYN .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What is the most important information I should know about DESOXYN ?
The following have been reported with use of methamphetamine hydrochloride and other stimulant medicines .
• Heart - related problems : • sudden death in patients who have heart problems or heart defects • stroke and heart attack in adults • increased blood pressure and heart rate Tell your or your child ’ s doctor if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your or your child ’ s doctor should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting DESOXYN .
Your or your child ’ s doctor should check you or your child ’ s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with DESOXYN .
Call your or your child ’ s doctor right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting while taking DESOXYN .
• Mental ( Psychiatric ) problems : All Patients • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new or worse aggressive behavior or hostility Children and Teenagers • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , believing things that are not true , are suspicious ) or new manic symptoms Tell your or your child ’ s doctor about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your or your child ’ s doctor right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems while taking DESOXYN , especially seeing or hearing things that are not real , believing things that are not real , or are suspicious .
3 .
Circulation problems in fingers and toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon ] : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your doctor if you have or your child has numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in your fingers or toes .
Call you your doctor right away if you have or your child has any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking DESOXYN .
What is DESOXYN ?
DESOXYN is a central nervous system stimulant prescription medicine .
It is used for thetreatmentofAttention - DeficitHyperactivityDisorder ; ( ADHD ) .
DESOXYN may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in patients with ADHD .
DESOXYN should be used as a part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include counseling or other therapies .
DESOXYN is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep DESOXYN in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away DESOXYN may harm others , andisagainstthelaw .
Tell your or your child ’ s doctor if you or your child have ( or have a family history of ) ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
Who should not take DESOXYN ?
DESOXYN should not be taken if you or your child : • have heart disease or hardening of the arteries • have moderate to severe high blood pressure • have hyperthyroidism • have an eye problem called glaucoma • are agitated • have a history of drug abuse • are taking or have taken within the past 14 days an antidepression medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor or MAOI .
• are sensitive to , allergic to , or had a reaction to other stimulant medicines DESOXYN is not recommended for use in children less than 6 years old in the treatment of ADHD .
DESOXYN may not be right for you or your child .
Before starting DESOXYN tell your or your child ’ s doctor about all health conditions ( or a family history of ) including : • heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness or depression • tics or Tourette ’ s syndrome • thyroid problems • diabetes • seizures or have had an abnormal brain wave test ( EEG ) • circulation problems in fingers and toes Tell your or your child ’ s doctor if you or your child is pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding .
Can DESOXYN be taken with other medicines ?
Tell your or your child ’ s doctor about all of the medicines that you or your child take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
DESOXYN and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted while taking DESOXYN .
Your or your child ’ s doctor will decide whether DESOXYN can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your or your child ’ s doctor if you or your child takes : • anti - depression medicines including MAOIs • anti - psychotic medicines • blood pressure medicines • insulin • seizure medicines Know the medicines that you or your child takes .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist .
DonotstartanynewmedicinewhiletakingDESOXYNwithouttalkingtoyouror your child ’ s doctor first .
How should DESOXYN be taken ?
• Take DESOXYN exactly as prescribed .
Your or your child ’ s doctor may adjust the dose until it is right for you or your child .
• DESOXYN is usually taken 1 or 2 times each day .
• From time to time , your or your child ’ s doctor may stop DESOXYN treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• Your or your child ’ s doctor may do regular checks of the blood , heart , and blood pressure while taking DESOXYN .
Children should have their height and weight checked often while taking DESOXYN .
DESOXYN treatment may be stopped if a problem is found during these check - ups .
• If you or your child takes too much DESOXYN or overdoses , call your or your child ’ s doctor or poison control center right away , or get emergency treatment .
What are possible side effects of DESOXYN ?
See “ WhatisthemostimportantinformationIshouldknowaboutDESOXYN ? ”
for information on reported heart and mental problems .
Other serious side effects include : • slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children • seizures , mainly in patients with a history of seizures • eyesight changes or blurred vision Common side effects include : • fast heart beat • decreased appetite • tremors • headache • trouble sleeping • dizziness • stomach upset • weight loss • dry mouth DESOXYN may affect your or your child ’ s ability to drive or do other dangerous activities .
Talk to your or your child ’ s doctor if you or your child has side effects that are bothersome or do not go away .
This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Ask your or your child ’ s doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your or your child ’ s doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store DESOXYN ?
• Store DESOXYN in a safe place at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Protect from light .
• Keep DESOXYN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about DESOXYN Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use DESOXYN for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DESOXYN to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about DESOXYN .
If you would like more information , talk with your or your child ’ s doctor .
You can ask your or your child ’ s doctor or pharmacist for information about DESOXYN that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about DESOXYN , contact Key Therapeutics , LLC .
at 1 - 888 - 981 - 8337 or visit www . keytx . com What are the ingredients in DESOXYN ?
ActiveIngredient : methamphetamine hydrochloride InactiveIngredients : corn starch , lactose , sodium paraminobenzoate , stearic acid and talc This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Key Therapeutics , LLC . , Flowood , MS 39232 , U . S . A . Principal Display Panel NDC 70868 - 820 - 05 100 Tablets Desoxyn ( methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets , USP ) 5 mg CII Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
