* each 5 mL contains 2 mg of anhydrous morphine Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL contains : Anhydrous Morphine ..........................................................................................................
2 mg ( from opium tincture ) Alcohol ................................................................................................................................ 45 % Inactive Ingredients : anise oil , benzoic acid , camphor , alcohol , glycerin , and purified water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Morphine produces its major effects on the central nervous system ( CNS ) and on the bowel .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paregoric is useful for the treatment of diarrhea .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to morphine .
Because of its stimulating effect on the spinal cord , morphine should not be used in convulsive states , such as those occurring in status epilepticus , tetanus , and strychnine poisoning .
This preparation should not be used in diarrhea caused by poisoning until the toxic material is eliminated from the gastrointestinal tract .
PRECAUTIONS General Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure - The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal - fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce additional effects that may obscure the clinical course in patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions - The administration of morphine or other narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Special - Risk Patients - Morphine should be given with caution to certain patients , such as the elderly or debilitated and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ’ s disease , and prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture .
Morphine should be used with extreme caution in patients with disorders characterized by hypoxia , since even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea while simultaneously increasing airway resistance .
Hypotensive Effect - The administration of morphine may result in severe hypotension in the postoperative patient or any individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume or the administration of such drugs as the phenothiazines or certain anesthetics .
Supraventricular Tachycardias - Because of a possible vagolytic action that may produce a significant increase in the ventricular response rate , morphine should be used with caution in patients with atrial flutter and other supraventricular tachycardias .
Convulsions - Morphine may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders .
If dosage is escalated substantially above recommended levels because of tolerance development , convulsions may occur in individuals without a history of convulsive disorders .
Information for Patients Morphine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Interactions Drug Interactions Morphine in combination with other narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , tranquilizers , sedative / hypnotics , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) has additive depressant effects , and the patient should be so advised .
When such combination therapy is contemplated , the dosage of one or both agents should be reduced .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Paregoric has no known carcinogenic or mutagenic potential .
However , no long - term animal studies are available to support this observation .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C – Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with morphine .
It is not known whether morphine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Paregoric should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Morphine appears in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when paregoric is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions include lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea , and vomiting .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients , and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include euphoria , dysphoria , constipation , and pruritus .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Paregoric is a Schedule lll narcotic .
Dependence Morphine can produce drug dependence and , therefore , has the potential for being abused .
Patients receiving therapeutic dosage regimens of 10 mg every 4 hours for 1 to 2 weeks have exhibited mild withdrawal symptoms .
Development of the dependent state is recognizable by an increased tolerance to the analgesic effect and the appearance of purposive phenomena ( complaints , pleas , demands , or manipulative actions ) shortly before the time of the next scheduled dose .
A patient in withdrawal should be treated in a hospital environment .
Usually , it is necessary only to provide supportive care with administration of a tranquilizer to suppress anxiety .
Severe symptoms of withdrawal may require administration of a replacement narcotic .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Serious overdosage of morphine is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and , sometimes , bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote against the respiratory depression that may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of the antagonist should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
Since the duration of action of morphine may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance , and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Pediatric Dosage 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mL / kg of body weight 1 to 4 times a day or as directed by a physician .
Usual Adult Dosage 5 to 10 mL 1 to 4 times a day or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Paregoric , USP 2 mg * / 5 mL , * each 5 mL contains 2 mg of anhydrous morphine ( from opium tincture ) ; alcohol 45 % and is available in 16 fl .
oz ( 473 mL ) bottles .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING NOTE : This product may deposit a sediment if exposed to low temperatures .
Filter if necessary .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Use safety closures when dispensing this product unless otherwise directed by a physician or requested by the purchaser .
Rx Only Manufactured By : HI - TECH PHARMACAL CO . , INC .
Amityville , NY 11701 Rev . 855 : 05 03 / 16 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Paregoric , USP 2 mg * / 5 mL * each 5 mL contains 2 mg of anhydrous morphine DO NOT USE THIS PRODUCT IF THE SAFETY SEAL AROUND THE CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
BULK CONTAINER - NOT FOR HOUSEHOLD USE Each 5 mL contains : Anhydrous Morphine … … … … … … … … … … . 2 mg Alcohol … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 45 % USUAL USAGE : See accompanying package insert .
WARNING : KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Use safety closures when dispensing this product unless otherwise directed by a physician or requested by the purchaser .
Rx Only 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) HI - TECH PHARMACAL CO . , INC .
Amityville , NY 11701 Rev . 855 : 06 07 / 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
