Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain Warnings For external use only Do not use • More than one patch on your body at a time • On cut , irritated or swollen skin • On puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor • If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • If pouch is damaged or opened When using is product • Use only as direacted • Read and follow all direactions and warnings on this carton • Do not allow contact with eyes • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of the use • Do not microwave • Dispose of used patch in the manner that always keeps product away from childen and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • Condition worsens • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symtoms persists for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • You experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breastfeading , ask health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area . Carefully remove backing from patch starting at a corner .
Apply sticky side of patch to affected area . Use one patch for up to 8 hrs Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician Other information Store in clean , dry place outside of direact sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive ingredients Water , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , PVP , Sodium Polyacrylate , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Aluminum Glycinate , Kaolin , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide Product label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
