A & D OINTMENT Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Lanolin 15 . 5 % Skin Protectant Petrolatum 53 . 4 % Skin protectant Use • temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation due to tattooing , piercing , and hair removal Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Do not use on • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center immediately : 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • After procedure , apply A & D Skin Protectant as needed to affected skin .
Other information • see bottom of carton for lot number and expiration date • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • do not use if carton is damaged or open • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients beeswax , cod liver oil ( contains vitamin A & vitamin D ) , fragrance , light mineral oil , microcrystalline wax Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 323 - 0107 or www . kendracollection . com 4 % LIDOCAINE Drug Facts Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Pain Relieving Cream Use • for temporary relief of pain associated with minor skin irritations due to tattooing , piercing , and hair removal Warnings For external use only Avoid contact with the eyes Do Not Use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in lidocaine cream or to similar medicines ( e . g . , local anesthetics such as benzocaine ) • in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas Ask a doctor before use • if you have had an allergic reaction ( e . g . , rash , hives , dizziness ) to any anesthetic medicine Stop use and ask a doctor if • you develop a persistent rash • conditions worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center immediately : 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • For adult use only .
• Before procedure , apply a small amount of pain relieving cream to affected area , and allow to dry .
Application may be repeated up to 4 times daily .
Other information • see bottom of carton for lot number and expiration date • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • do not use if carton is damaged or open • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , benzophenone - 4 , cetyl alcohol , dimethyl sulfoxide , jeecide cap - 5 , L - arginine , purified water , simmondsia chinesis ( jojoba ) seed oil , sodium polyacrylate , stearic acid , tea tree oil Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 323 - 0107 or www . kendracollection . com This product is manufactured and distributed by Natureplex ™ .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC # 67234 - 048 - 01 KENDRA PAIN RELIEF & SKIN PROTECTANT A & D OINTMENT SKIN PROTECTANT 1 TUBE NET WT .
1 . 75 Oz .
( 49 . 6 g ) LIDOCAINE 4 % PAIN RELIEVING CREAM 1 TUBE NET WT .
1 . 75 Oz .
( 49 . 6 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
