ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Adenosine 0 . 04 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT SP F I ) Inactive Ingredients : Water , Carbomer , Beta - Glucan , Caffeine , Avena Sativa ( Oat ) Kernel Extract , Hovenia Dulcis Fruit Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract / Diospyros Kaki Leaf Extract / Theobroma Cacao Extract / Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Extract / Wine Extract , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Seed Extract , Origanum Vulgare Flower Extract , Octanediol ( Carprylyl Glycol ) , Phenoxyethanol , Phenoxyethanol , Sophora Flavescens Root Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , Copper Tripeptide - 1 SP F II ) Inactive Ingredients : Sodium Silicate / Hydroxypropyl Chitosan , Water , Ipomoea Purpurea Extract / Paeonia Albiflora Flower Extract / Magnolia Liliflora Flower Extract / Lilium Candidum Flower Extract , Sodium Hydroxide , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Polyepsilon - Lysine PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Precautions on use : 1 .
Stop using the product if there are any of the following abnormal symptoms appearing after use and consult with your dermatologist as continued use can worsen the symptoms .
A ) If there are red spots , swelling , itchiness , or irritation B ) If the above symptoms appear around the skin to which the product has been applied after being exposed to direct sunlight .
2 .
Precautions on storage and handling A ) Make sure to close the cap after use .
B ) Keep out of the reach of children .
C ) Do not keep the product in a hot or cold place or a place getting direct sunlight .
3 .
Do not apply the product to any parts of the skin with wound , eczema , or dermatitis .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Suggested use and application order Suggested use and application order : 1 .
Open SP F Ⅰ until the dotted line .
( try not to spill the liquid content inside ) 2 .
Open SP F Ⅱ and mix with SP F Ⅰ .
( try not to spill the liquid content inside ) 3 .
Seal the package of SP F Ⅰ and strongly shake the package more than 10 times to mix two agents well .
( turning into gel when mixed enough ) 4 .
Apply the content over your face enough with a brush contained inside the package .
5 .
Regardless of individual difference , wait for 15 ~ 20 minutes .
( gently fan yourself while waiting ) Try not to move or speak .
6 .
For the first few times , your skin may feel strongly stretched and there is a difference in color change depending on area .
( discharge of toxin out of the skin ) Feeling of stretching may differ by individual skin condition .
7 .
After enough application , wash your face with warm water and then use soap to cleanse your face once again .
8 .
Dry your face with a dry towel .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & administration : Use up a single package at a time .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
