Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octocrylene 10 . 0 % , Oxybenzone 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not Puncture or incinerate , Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of Ignition - No smoking .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breaching it • keep out of eyes • Rinse with water to remove .
keep out of reach of children if product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics .
• Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
DIRECTIONS : • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenlyb by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
• Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditionss • use in well - ventiliated area • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours .
Sun protection measures : • Spending time in the sun increase your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : • Ask a doctor Other Information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Principal Display Panel PETER ISLAND Continous Spray Sunscreen Sport 50 BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 Wo n't Run Into Eyes UVA / UVB Protection Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) 6 FL . OZ .
( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Alcohol decant , Acrylates / octylacrylamide Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Mineral Oil , PEG _ 8 Dimethicone , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Octyldodecanol , Retinyl Palmitate , Silica , Tocopheryl Leaf Extract , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Propoxyhydroxypropyl Thiosulfate Silica , Fragrance .
