Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 15 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 10 . 0 % Uses • Helps prevent sunburn , higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • retains SPF after XX minutes of activity in the water or sweating • provides moderate protection against sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , Decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun WARNINGS For external use only .
Highly Flammable : Do not apply or use product near heat , flame , or while smoking .
When using this product : • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Do not puncture or incinerate , Contents under pressure • Do not store at temperature above 120 ⁰ F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away When using this product : • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Do not puncture or incinerate , Contents under pressure • Do not store at temperature above 120 ⁰ F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Behenyl Alcohol BHT Butyloctyl Salocylate Caprylyl Methicone Dimethicone Dimethyl Capramide Disodium EDTA Ethylhexyl Stearate Ethylhexylglycerin Glyceryl Stearate Hydrated Silicia PEG - 100 Stearate Phenoxyethanol Polyester - 8 Sodium Polyacrylate Styrene / Acrylate Copolymer Trideceth - 6 Trimethylsiloxysilicate VP / Hexadecene Copolyer Water Xanthan Gum DIRECTIONS • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours ٠Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
٠Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
٠Do not apply in windy conditions .
٠Use in a well - ventilated area .
٠For sunscreen use ٠apply to all areas of the skin exposed to the sun .
٠Reapply as needed or after towel drying , swimming , or sweating .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
