Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 47 H 75 NO 17 MW 926 . 13 Nystatin Oral Suspension USP , for oral administration , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL .
Inactive ingredients : alcohol ( ≤ 1 % v / v ) , artificial peppermint flavor , cherry flavor , citric acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Red No . 40 , glycerin , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , potassium phosphate dibasic , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water and sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
Candida albicans demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin in vitro on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other Candida species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop in vivo .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible Candida species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Oral Suspension is indicated for the treatment of candidiasis in the oral cavity .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The preparation is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin oral suspension .
It is also not known whether nystatin oral suspension can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin oral suspension should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic : Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other : Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and non - specific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 845 - 8210 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects of superinfections ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INFANTS : 2 mL ( 200 , 000 units ) four times daily ( in infants and young children , use dropper to place one - half of dose in each side of mouth and avoid feeding for 5 to 10 minutes ) .
NOTE : Limited clinical studies in premature and low birth weight infants indicate that 1 mL four times daily is effective .
CHILDREN AND ADULTS : 4 to 6 mL ( 400 , 000 to 600 , 000 units ) four times daily ( one - half of dose in each side of mouth ) .
The preparation should be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing .
Continue treatment for at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and cultures demonstrate eradication of Candida albicans .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Oral Suspension USP , 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL , is available in a cherry , peppermint flavored , light creamy yellow , ready - to - use suspension , supplied in the following oral dosage forms : NDC 63739 - 160 - 70 : 5 mL Unit Dose Cup NDC 63739 - 160 - 10 : Case of 100 , 5 mL Unit Dose Cups .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Distributed By : McKesson Corporation dba SKY Packaging Memphis , TN 38141 Manufactured By : Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 www . paipharma . com Iss 02 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mL Cup Label Delivers 5 mL NDC 63739 - 160 - 70 NYSTATIN ORAL SUSPENSION , USP 500 , 000 units / 5 mL Alcohol ≤ 1 % v / v SHAKE WELL FOR INSTITUTIONAL USE ONLY Rx ONLY Dist By : SKY Packaging Memphis , TN 38141 SEE INSERT A0868C050222 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
