Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Purpose Antiseptic Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
When using the product , keep out of eyes .
Do not inhale or ingest .
Do not use on open skin wounds - around eyes - in ears and mouth When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
• Not recommended for infants Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • May discolor some fabrics • Harmful to wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Triethanolamine , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
