1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is indicated for : • Dilution or Dissolving the drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injections ( 1 . 1 ) .
1 . 1 Dilution or Dissolution of Drugs Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is indicated for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Volume of preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration recommended by the drug manufacturer ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage • The volume of preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose and route of administration as recommended by the drug manufacturer .
2 . 2 Instruction for Administration • Solution and fluid path are sterile and non - pyrogenic if the tip cap is in place , syringe is intact and there is no evidence of leakage .
Use proper aseptic technique .
• Inspect plastic wrapping .
Do not use if plastic wrapping is damaged or not intact .
( Figure 1 ) • Remove plastic packaging by tearing along perforation .
( Figure 2 ) • Do not use if , solution is discolored , cloudy , hazy , or contains a precipitate , or if the syringe is damaged .
( Figure 3 ) • With the tip cap of the syringe on , press the syringe forward to properly activate the syringe .
Improper activation may difficult syringe use and / or may cause plunger rod separation .
Never draw back rod because the product may become contaminated .
( Figure 4 ) • Remove tip cap .
Hold the syringe unit upright and prime to expel any air bubble if present .
( Figure 5 ) • Syringe is now ready to use .
• Use aseptic techniques for diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use according to the drug manufacturer ’ s label instructions .
• Discard empty unit after use .
Discard any unused portion .
Do not reuse disposable syringes .
2 . 3 Preparation and Handling Precautions • Before use check for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
• Do not store reconstituted solution or drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
• Adding additives may be incompatible .
• Do not use if , solution is discolored , cloudy , hazy , or contains a precipitate , or if the syringe is damaged .
• Do not freeze .
• Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS 10 mL fill in 12 mL syringe , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP , single use .
• Injection , 0 . 9 % 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Consult the drug product manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving drugs to be injected including the route and rate of injection ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Do not use Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % if the solution is discolored , cloudy , hazy , or contains a precipitate , or if the syringe is damaged ( 5 . 1 ) .
• For single use only .
Discard unused portion ( 5 . 2 ) .
5 . 1 General When used to dilute drug products , consult the drug product manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving drugs to be injected including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % if the solution is discolored , cloudy , hazy , or contains a precipitate , or if the syringe is damaged .
5 . 2 For Single Use Only Re - use of single - use product creates a potential risk to the user .
Contamination of product and / or limited functionality of the syringe may lead to injury , illness or death .
Discard any unused portion .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include , but are not limited to , air embolization , febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of unused vehicle for examination if deemed necessary .
• Reactions that may occur because of this solution , added drugs or the technique of reconstitution or administration include air embolization , febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasations ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MEDEFIL , INC . at tel : 1 - 630 - 682 - 4600 and http : / / www . medefilinc . com / or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs or injections may be incompatible when combined with 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
Before Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is used as a vehicle for the administration of a drug , the drug product manufacturer ’ s instructions or other specific references should be checked for any possible incompatibility with sodium chloride .
Consult with a pharmacist , if unsure of compatibility .
• Some drugs or injections may be incompatible when combined with 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
• Consult with a pharmacist , if unsure of compatibility ( 7 ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic solution of sodium chloride and water for injection .
It contains no bacteriostatic antimicrobial agents or added buffer .
The nominal pH is 5 . 5 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % contains 9 g / L Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) with a calculated osmolarity of approximately 308 mOsmol / L .
It contains 154 mEq / L sodium and 154 mEq / L chloride .
The syringe component of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % is manufactured with polypropylene and luer lock .
The syringe is not made with natural rubber latex .
The syringe is not made with DEHP .
This product contains no preservative .
The syringes require no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The empirical formula for sodium chloride is NaCl and the molecular weight is 58 . 44 g / mol .
Supplied as single use syringes .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
The small volume of fluid and amount of sodium chloride provided by Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , 0 . 9 % when used only as an isotonic vehicle for parenteral injection of drugs or for flushing of indwelling access devices , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid and electrolyte balance except possibly in neonates and very small infants .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The drug product is packaged in a clear plastic hypodermic syringe , which consists of a hypodermic barrel with luer lock , plunger stopper , plunger rod , and tip cap .
The syringe is intended for single use and subsequent disposal .
The 10 mL fill volume syringes are packaged individually in plastic pouches and 60 syringes are packaged into each dispensing box .
DOSAGE FORM Product Number NDC Fill Volume MSD - 0230 64253 - 202 - 30 10 mL fill in 12 mL syringe The above product is available in boxes of 30 , 60 or 120 count each .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 When using to dilute drug products , consult the drug product manufacturer ’ s instruction to confirm compatibility , appropriate dilution or volume for dissolving drugs including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 0 . 9 % if the solution is discolored , cloudy , hazy , or contains a precipitate , or if the syringe damaged [ see Warning and Precautions , section 5 . 1 ] .
17 . 2 Syringes are for single use only .
Discard unused portions and dispose of the unit in an appropriate sharps container .
[ see Warning and Precaustions , section 5 . 2 ] .
Medefil , Inc . , 250 Windy Point Drive , Glendale Heights , IL 60139 .
Prepared 10 / 2020 Rev . 003 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Medefil , Inc . , 250 Windy Point Drive , Glendale Heights , IL 60139 .
NDA 202832 Rev . 003 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Insert _ Page 1 and 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
